 
CHAPTER 3 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
 
SECTION A: DEFINITIONS 
 
Article 3.1 
Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
1.  
“appraised value” means the value determined under Articles 1 through 8, Article 
15 and the corresponding interpretative notes of the WTO Customs Valuation 
Agreement, as adjusted to exclude any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for 
transportation, insurance, and related services incident to the international shipment 
of the merchandise from the country of exportation to the place of importation;  
 
2.  
“fungible goods or materials” means goods or materials that are interchangeable for 
commercial purposes and whose properties are essentially identical; 
 
3.  
“generally accepted accounting principles” means the recognized consensus or 
substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the 
recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of 
information and the preparation of financial statements. These standards may 
encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, 
practices and procedures; 
 
4.  
“goods wholly obtained in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means goods 
that are: 
 
(a)  
mineral goods extracted there; 
 
(b)  
vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the Harmonized System, 
harvested there; 
 
(c)  
live animals born and raised there; 
 
(d)  
goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted 
there; 
 
(e)  
goods (fish, shellfish, and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels 
registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag; 
 
 15
(f)  
goods produced exclusively from goods referred to in Article 3.1.4(e) on 
board factory ships registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag; 
 
(g) 
goods taken by a Party, or a person of a Party, from the seabed or beneath 
the seabed outside territorial waters, provided that the Party has rights to 
exploit such seabed; or 
 
(h)  
waste and scrap derived from 
 
(i)  
production there; or 
 
(ii) 
used goods collected there, provided that such goods are fit only for 
the recovery of raw materials; 
 
5.  
“goods produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means goods 
that are produced there exclusively from goods referred to in Article 3.1.4 or from 
their derivatives, at any stage of production. 
 
6.  
“Harmonized System” means the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding 
System; 
 
7. 
“indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing or inspection of a 
good but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the 
maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the 
production of a good, including: 
 
(a)  
fuel and energy; 
 
(b)  
tools, dies, and molds; 
 
(c)  
spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and 
buildings; 
 
(d)  
lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in 
production or used to operate equipment and buildings; 
 
(e)  
gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and supplies; 
 
(f)  
equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the goods; 
 
(g)  
catalysts and solvents; and 
 
 
 
 16
(h)  
any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but whose use in the 
production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that 
production; 
 
8.  
“material” means a good that is used in the production of another good; 
 
9.  
“non-originating material” means a material that has not satisfied the requirements 
of this Chapter; 
 
10.  
“preferential treatment” means the customs duty rate and any other charges having 
equivalent effect and treatment under Article 2.2 that is applicable to an originating 
good pursuant to this Agreement; 
 
11.  
“producer” means a person who grows, raises, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, 
manufactures, processes, assembles or disassembles a good; 
 
12.  
“production” means growing, raising, mining, harvesting, fishing, trapping, 
hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling or disassembling a good; and 
 
13.  
“used” means used or consumed in the production of goods. 
 
 
SECTION B: ORIGIN DETERMINATION 
 
 
Article 3.2 
Criteria of Origin 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, an originating good means a good which fulfils Article 
3.12 and any of the following: 
 
(a) 
wholly obtained in the territory of a Party; 
 
(b) 
produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or 
 
(c)  
for goods: 
 
 
(i)  
other than goods subject to Article 3.3, fulfills a minimum of a local 
value content of 35%, calculated using the following method: 
 
LVC = AV - VNM x 100 
      AV 
 
 
 17
 
Where:  
 
“LVC” is the local value content, expressed as a percentage; 
 
“AV” is the appraised value; and 
 
“VNM” is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired 
and used by the producer in the production of the good.  
 
(ii)  
subject to Article 3.3, satisfies the conditions set out in Article 3.3. 
 
 
Article 3.3 
Textile and Apparel Goods 
 
1. 
General rule: 
 
A textile or apparel good shall be considered to be wholly the growth, product or 
manufacture of a Party, or a new or different article of commerce that has been 
grown, produced, or manufactured in a Party; only if 
 
(a)    
the good is wholly obtained or produced in a Party; 
 
(b)  
the good is a yarn, thread, twine, cordage, rope, cable, or braiding, and, 
 
(i)  
the constituent staple fibers are spun in that Party, or 
 
(ii)  
the continuous filament is extruded in that Party; 
 
(c)  
the good is a fabric, including a fabric classified under Chapter 59 of the 
Harmonized System, and the constituent fibers, filaments, or yarns are 
woven, knitted, needled, tufted, felted, entangled, or transformed by any 
other fabric-making process in that Party; or 
 
(d)  
the good is any other textile or apparel product that is wholly assembled in 
that Party from its component pieces. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
2.       Special rules: 
 
(a)  
Notwithstanding Article 3.3.1(d), and except as provided in Articles 
3.3.2(c) and (d), whether this Agreement shall apply to a good that is 
classified under one of the following Harmonized System headings or 
subheadings shall be determined under Article 3.3.1(a), (b) or (c), as 
appropriate: 5609, 5807, 5811, 6209.20.50.40, 6213, 6214, 6301, 6302, 
6304, 6305, 6306, 6307.10, 6307.90, 6308, or 9404.90. 
 
(b)  
Notwithstanding Article 3.3.1(d), and except as provided in Articles 
3.3.2(c) and (d), this Agreement shall apply to a textile or apparel good 
which is knit to shape in a Party. 
 
(c)  
Notwithstanding Article 3.3.1(d), this Agreement shall apply to goods 
classified under Harmonized System heading 6117.10, 6213.00, 6214.00, 
6302.22, 6302.29, 6302.52, 6302.53, 6302.59, 6302.92, 6302.93, 6302.99, 
6303.92, 6303.99, 6304.19, 6304.93, 6304.99, 9404.90.85, or 9404.90.95, 
except for goods classified under such headings as of cotton or of wool or 
consisting of fiber blends containing 16 percent or more by weight of 
cotton, if the fabric in the goods is both dyed and printed, when such dyeing 
and printing is accompanied by 2 or more of the following finishing 
operations: bleaching, shrinking, fulling, napping, decating, permanent 
stiffening, weighting, permanent embossing, or moireing. 
 
(d)  
Notwithstanding Article 3.3.1(c), this Agreement shall apply to fabric 
classified under the Harmonized System as of silk, cotton, man-made fiber 
or vegetable fiber if the fabric is both dyed and printed in a Party, and such 
dyeing and printing is accompanied by 2 or more of the following finishing 
operations: bleaching, shrinking, fulling, napping, decating, permanent 
stiffening, weighting, permanent embossing, or moireing. 
 
 
Article 3.4 
Value of Materials 
 
The value of a material used in production of a good in a Party shall be the Cost, Insurance 
and Freight (CIF) value and shall be determined in accordance with Article VII of the 
GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Customs Valuation, or, if this is not known and 
cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price known by the manufacturer to have been 
paid for the material in the Party. 
 
 
 
 
 19
Article 3.5 
Minimal Operations 
 
A good shall not be considered to be originating solely by reason of: 
 
(a)  
mere dilution with water or another substance that does not materially alter 
the characteristics of the good; 
 
(b) 
preserving operations to ensure that the good remains in good condition 
during transport and storage; 
 
(c) 
bulk breaking and assembly of packages; 
 
(d) 
washing, cleaning; removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings; 
 
(e) 
ironing or pressing of textiles; 
 
(f) 
simple painting and polishing operations; 
 
(g) 
husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing and glazing of cereals and rice; 
 
(h) 
operations to color sugar or form sugar lumps; 
 
(i) 
peeling, stoning and shelling, of fruits, nuts and vegetables; 
 
(j) 
sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting; 
 
(k) 
sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching; (including the 
making-up of sets of articles); 
 
(l) 
simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or 
boards and all other simple packaging operations; 
 
(m) 
affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs 
on goods or their packaging; 
 
(n) 
simple mixing of goods, whether or not of different kinds; 
 
(o) 
simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or 
disassembly of products into parts; 
 
(p) 
a combination of two or more operations specified in Articles 3.5(a)-(o); or 
 
(q) 
slaughter of animals. 
 20
 
 
Article 3.6 
Accumulation 
 
1. 
For the purpose of determining whether a good is an originating good of the other 
Party, either Party shall consider the production in its territory as that in the 
territory of the other Party, where such good is produced in the territory or 
territories of one or both Parties. 
 
2. 
The production of a Party includes the production at different stages undertaken by 
one or more producers located in its territory. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall explore the application of the concept of diagonal accumulation 
between the Parties and third parties should there be a free trade agreement 
between each of the Parties and the third party in question. 
 
 
Article 3.7 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  
 
Each Party shall provide that accessories, spare parts, or tools delivered with a good that 
form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools, shall be taken into 
account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the 
local value content of the good.  
 
 
Article 3.8 
Fungible Goods and Materials  
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that the determination of whether fungible goods or 
materials are originating goods shall be made either by physical segregation of each 
good or material or through the use of any inventory management method, such as 
averaging, last-in, first-out, or first-in, first out, recognized in the generally 
accepted accounting principles of the Party in which the production is performed or 
otherwise accepted by the Party in which the production is performed. 
 
2.  
Each Party shall provide that that an inventory management method selected under 
Article 3.8.1 for particular fungible goods or materials shall continue to be used for 
those fungible goods or materials throughout the fiscal year of the person that 
selected the inventory management method. 
 
 
Article 3.9 
Packaging Materials and Containers for Retail Sale  
 21
 
Each Party shall provide that the value of packaging materials and containers in which a 
good is packaged for retail sale, shall be taken into account as originating or non-
originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the local value content of the good. 
 
 
Article 3.10 
Packing Materials and Containers for Shipment  
 
Each Party shall provide that packing materials and containers in which a good is packed 
for shipment shall be disregarded in determining whether the good satisfies the local value 
content requirement. 
 
 
Article 3.11 
Indirect Materials 
 
Each Party shall provide that an indirect material shall be treated as an originating material 
without regard to where it is produced and its value shall be the cost registered in the 
accounting records of the producer of the good. 
 
 
Article 3.12 
Direct Transport 
 
A good shall be considered to be directly transported if the good is: 
 
(a)  
transported directly from the territory of a Party to the territory of the other 
Party; 
 
(b)  
transported through the territories of one or more non-Parties, provided that 
the goods: 
 
(i)  
did not undergo operations other than packing, packaging, 
unloading, reloading or operations to preserve them in good 
condition in the territory of any such non-Party; and 
 
(ii)  
were not traded or used in the territory of any such non-Party ; and  
 
(iii)  
invoices and bills of lading show that the good  was shipped from a 
Party, and that the other Party is the final destination. 
 
 
 
 22
SECTION C: SUPPORTING INFORMATION AND VERIFICATION 
 
 
Article 3.13 
Certificate of Origin 
 
1. 
Goods eligible for preferential treatment shall be supported by a Certificate of 
Origin issued by the relevant authorities of the exporting Party and notified to the 
other Party. 
 
2. 
Such Certificate of Origin shall include minimum data specified in Annex 3A. 
 
3. 
The issued Certificate of Origin shall be valid for 12 months from the date of issue 
and must be submitted within such period to the customs authorities of the 
importing Party. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall inform the other Party of the names and addresses of its authorized 
officials issuing the Certificate of Origin and shall provide specimen signatures and 
official seals used by such government officials.  
 
5. 
Any change in the names, addresses, signatures or official seals referred to in 
Article 3.13.4 shall be promptly notified to the other Party. 
 
6. 
A Certificate of Origin for an originating good shall be completed in the English 
language. 
 
7. 
Each Party shall: 
 
(a) 
require an exporter in its territory to complete and sign an application for a 
Certificate of Origin for any good for which an importer may claim 
preferential tariff treatment on importation of the good into the territory of 
the other Party; and 
 
(b) 
provide that where an exporter in its territory is not the producer of the 
good, the exporter may complete and sign an application for a Certificate of 
Origin on the basis of: 
 
(i)  
its knowledge that the good qualifies as an originating good,  
 
(ii)  
its reasonable reliance on the producer's written representation that 
the good qualifies as an originating good. 
 
 23
8. 
Each Party shall provide that a Certificate of Origin that has been issued by its 
relevant authorities is valid for a single shipment of the good into the other Party's 
territory. 
 
 
Article 3.14 
Claims for Preferential Treatment 
 
1.  
The importing Party shall grant preferential treatment to goods imported into its 
territory from the other Party, provided that the importer claiming preferential tariff 
treatment: 
 
(a) 
has the original Certificate of Origin or an authenticated copy thereof in its 
possession; and 
 
(b) 
provides the original Certificate of Origin or an authenticated copy thereof 
if requested by the importing Party. 
 
2.  
Where an authenticated copy of the Certificate of Origin is used, such copy shall be 
certified true and correct by the relevant authorities of the exporting Party and carry 
the date of the authentication, the signature of the certifying officers and the name 
and stamp of the relevant authorities. 
 
3.  
The importing Party may, in addition to the conditions listed in Article 3.14.1, 
require the importer claiming preferential tariff treatment to make a written 
declaration that the good qualifies as an originating good, in accordance with the 
domestic law and procedures of the importing Party. 
 
4.  
The importing Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment to goods imported after 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement, even if the conditions in Article 
3.1.4.1 were not fulfilled at time of import, if: 
 
(a) 
a sum amounting to the rate of customs duties payable is paid at the time of 
import; 
 
(b) 
the importer indicates at time of import of goods that a claim of preferential 
tariff treatment will be made subsequently; and 
 
(c)  
the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made and the documents 
required under Article 3.14.1 are provided within 7 days from the date of 
payment of the sum in Article 3.14.4(a), or such longer period as provided 
for under the importing Party’s domestic laws, subject to domestic laws and 
practices in the importing Party. 
 
 24
Upon satisfaction of the conditions in this paragraph, the importing Party shall 
refund the difference between the preferential customs duties and charges and non-
preferential duties and charges to the importer.  
 
 
Article 3.15 
Obligations relating to Importations  
 
1.  
Each Party shall grant preferential treatment under this Agreement for any claim 
made in accordance with this Section, unless the Party possesses information that 
the claim is invalid. 
 
2.  
A Party may deny preferential treatment under this Agreement to an imported good 
if the importer fails to comply with any requirement of this Chapter. 
 
3. 
If a Party denies a claim for preferential treatment under the Agreement, it shall 
issue a written determination within 30 days from the date of denial, containing its 
findings of fact and the legal basis for the determination. 
 
Article 3.16 
Waiver of requirement for Certificate of Origin  
 
The importing Party shall not require a Certificate of Origin from importers for: 
 
(a) 
an importation of a consignment of a good whose aggregate customs value 
does not exceed USD$1000 or its equivalent amount; or 
 
(b) 
an importation of a good into its territory, for which the importing Party has 
waived the requirement for a certification of origin. 
 
 
Article 3.17 
Record Keeping Requirement  
 
Each Party may require that importers maintain for up to 3 years after the date of 
importation, records relating to the importation of the good, and may require that an 
importer provide, upon request, records which are necessary to demonstrate that a good 
qualifies as an originating good, including records concerning: 
 
(a)  
the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, the good; 
 
(b)  
the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all materials, including 
indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and 
 
 25
(c)  
the production of the good in the form in which the good is exported. 
 
 
Article 3.18 
Cooperation on Verification on Certificates of Origin  
 
1. 
The importing Party may request the certifying authorities of the exporting Party to 
assist it in verifying: 
 
a. 
the authenticity of a Certificate of Origin issued by the exporting Party 
and/or  
 
b. 
the accuracy of any information contained in the Certificate of Origin issued 
by the exporting Party. 
 
2. 
For the purpose of Article 3.18.1, the customs administration of the importing Party 
shall provide the certifying authority of the exporting Party with: 
 
a. 
the reasons why such assistance is sought,  
 
b. 
the Certificate of Origin, or a copy thereof; and 
 
c. 
any information and documents as may be necessary for the purpose of such 
assistance.  
 
3. 
Any verification carried out pursuant to this Article shall be carried out by the 
certifying authorities of the exporting Party. 
 
 
Article 3.19 
Verification 
 
1. 
For the purposes of determining whether a good imported into its territory from the 
territory of the other Party qualifies as an originating good, a Party may conduct a 
verification by means of: 
 
(a)  
requests for information from the importer; 
 
(b)  
written requests for information to an exporter or a producer in the territory 
of the other Party through the customs authorities of the exporting Party;  
 
(c)  
visits to the premises of an exporter or a producer in the territory of the 
other Party, with their consent and in accordance with any procedures that 
the Parties jointly adopt pertaining to such verification; or 
 26
 
(d)  
such other procedures as the Parties may agree. 
 
2.  
The Party conducting a verification shall provide the exporter or producer whose 
good is the subject of the verification with a written determination of whether the 
good qualifies as an originating good, including findings of fact and the legal basis 
for the determination. 
 
3.  
Where verifications by a Party indicate a pattern of conduct by an exporter or a 
producer of false or unsupported representations that a good imported into its 
territory qualifies as an originating good, the Party may withhold preferential tariff 
treatment to identical goods exported or produced by such exporter or producer 
until that exporter or producer establishes compliance with rules of origin in this 
Chapter. 
 
4.  
Each Party shall provide that where it determines that a certain good imported into 
its territory does not qualify as an originating good based on a tariff classification 
or a value applied by the Party to one or more materials used in the production of 
the good, which differs from the tariff classification or value applied to the 
materials by the Party from whose territory the good was exported, the Party's 
determination shall not become effective until it notifies in writing both the 
importer of the good and the person that completed and signed the Certificate of 
Origin for the good of its determination. 
 
5.  
If a Party denies preferential tariff treatment to a good pursuant to a determination 
made under Article 3.19.4, it shall postpone the effective date of the denial of 
preferential tariff treatment for a period not exceeding 90 days where the importer 
of the good or the person who completed and signed the Certificate of Origin for 
the good demonstrates that it has relied in good faith to its detriment on the tariff 
classification or value applied to such materials by the customs administration of 
the Party from whose territory the good was exported. 
 
 
Article 3.20 
Advanced Rulings  
 
1. 
The importing Party shall provide for the issuance of written advance rulings to a 
person described in Article 3.20.2(a) concerning tariff classification of a good 
under this Agreement, prior to the importation of such good into its territory. 
 
 
 
 
 
 27
2. 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures for the issuance of advance rulings 
that: 
 
(a) 
provide that an importer in its territory or an exporter or producer in the 
territory of the other Party, or their agents, may request such a ruling prior 
to the importation in question;  
 
(b) 
include a detailed description of the information required to process a 
request for an advance ruling; and 
 
(c) 
provide that the advance ruling be based on the facts and circumstances 
presented by the person requesting the ruling. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall provide that its customs authorities: 
 
(a) 
may request, at any time during the course of evaluating a request for an 
advance ruling, additional information necessary to evaluate the request; 
 
(b) 
shall issue the advance ruling expeditiously, and within 120 days after 
obtaining all necessary information; and 
 
(c)  
shall provide, upon request of the person who requested the advance ruling, 
a full explanation of the reasons for the ruling. 
 
4. 
Subject to Article 3.20.5, each Party shall provide that an advance ruling issued by 
its customs authorities is effective either on the date of issuance of the ruling or on 
such date(s) as may be specified in the advance ruling. The treatment provided by 
the advance ruling shall be applied to importations without regard to the identity of 
the importer, exporter or producer, provided that the facts and circumstances are 
identical in all material respects. 
 
5. 
A Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling issued by its customs authorities 
upon its determination that: 
 
(a) 
the ruling was based on an error of fact or law; or  
 
(b) 
if there is a change of either the law (and that such change in law is not 
inconsistent with this Agreement), material facts or circumstances on which 
the advance ruling is based.  
 
The issuing Party shall notify the applicant of such modification or revocation. The 
issuing Party may postpone the effective date of such modification or revocation 
for a period of not less than 60 days if the person to whom the ruling was issued 
has relied in good faith on that ruling. 
 28
SECTION D: CONSULTATIONS, MODIFICATIONS AND APPLICATION 
 
 
Article 3.21 
Consultations, Modifications and Application 
 
1.  
The Parties shall consult and cooperate to ensure that this Chapter is applied in an 
effective and uniform manner. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall consult as provided in Article 8.1 to discuss necessary 
amendments to this Chapter and Annex 3A, taking into account developments in 
technology, production processes, and other related matters. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
the basis for tariff classification is the Harmonized System; 
 
(b) 
any cost and value referred to in this Chapter shall be recorded and 
maintained in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles 
applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced. 
 29
