CHAPTER 7 DISPUTE SETTLEMENT   Article 7.1 Scope and Coverage  1. The provisions of this Chapter and Annex 7A shall apply with respect to the avoidance or settlement of disputes between the Parties concerning their rights and obligations under this Agreement.  2. The rules, procedures and timeframes set out in this Chapter and Annex 7A may be waived, varied or modified by the mutual written agreement of the Parties.  3. Where a dispute regarding any matter referred to in Articles 7.2.2(a) and (b) arises under both this Agreement and the WTO Agreement and any amendments thereto, the complaining Party may select the forum in which to settle the dispute.  4. Once dispute settlement procedures have been initiated by a complaining Party, the forum selected shall be used to the exclusion of the other.  5. For the purposes of Article 7.1.4, a Party shall be deemed to have selected a forum when it has requested the establishment of, or referred the matter to, a dispute settlement panel or arbitral tribunal.   Article 7.2 Consultations  1. The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation and application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt possible to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that might affect its operation.  2. A Party may make a request for consultations with the other Party whenever it considers:  (a) that a measure of the other Party is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement; or  (b) that a benefit accruing to it under this Agreement, either directly or indirectly, is being nullified or impaired by a measure applied by the other Party as a result of a measure that is not inconsistent with this Agreement.     413. Any request for consultations shall be submitted in writing and shall give the reasons for the request, including identification of the measures at issue and an indication of the legal basis of the complaint.  4. If a request for consultations is made, the Party to which the request is made shall reply to the request within 7 days after the date of its receipt and shall enter into consultations within a period of no more than 30 days after the date of receipt of the request, with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution.  5. The Parties shall provide each other with sufficient information as may be reasonably available to them to enable a full examination of how the measure might affect the operation of the Agreement and they shall treat as confidential any information exchanged in the consultations which the other Party has designated as confidential.   Article 7.3 Reference of Disputes to the Joint Committee or the Arbitral Tribunal  1. If the Parties fail to resolve a dispute within 30 days of the commencement of consultations under Article 7.2, either Party may refer the matter to the Joint Committee, which shall convene and endeavour to resolve the dispute as it deems appropriate.  2. If a matter referred to the Joint Committee has not been resolved within a period of 45 days after the dispute was referred to it, or within such other period as the Joint Committee has specified, the complaining Party may make a written request to the other Party to appoint an arbitral tribunal, which should include a statement of the claim and the grounds on which it is based.  3. Any matter relating to the arbitral tribunal, including its constitution and functioning is governed by Annex 7A.   42