ANNEX 2A 
 
TARIFF ELIMINATION - HEADNOTES 
 
1. Live animals, animal, natural, industrial and agricultural products originating in Jordan shall 
be allowed free of customs duties and any other charges having equivalent effect when 
exported directly into Singapore starting the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
2. Aside from products listed in paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this Annex, customs duties and 
any other charges having equivalent effect on products originating in Singapore and exported 
directly into Jordan shall remain at base rates for the first five years of implementation. 
Thereafter, beginning January 1 of year six from date of entry into force of the Agreement, the 
rates of duty shall be progressively abolished in five equal annual stages over five consecutive 
years. Such goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year ten. 
 
3. Products of List No.1 originating in Singapore shall be allowed free of customs duties and any 
other charges having equivalent effect when exported directly into Jordan starting the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
4. Customs duties and any other charges having equivalent effect on products of List No. 2 
originating in Singapore shall be progressively abolished when exported directly into Jordan 
starting the date of entry into force of this Agreement in five equal annual stages over five 
consecutive years. Such goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year five. 
 
5. Customs duties and any other charges having equivalent effect on products of List No. 3 
originating in Singapore shall be progressively abolished when exported directly into Jordan 
starting the date of entry into force of this Agreement in ten equal annual stages over ten 
consecutive years. Such goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year ten. 
 
6. Customs duties and any other charges having equivalent effect on products of List No. 4 
originating in Singapore shall be progressively reduced when exported directly into Jordan 
starting the date of entry into force of this Agreement in 10 equal annual stages of five per cent 
from the base rate. The duty on such goods shall be 50 percent of the base rate effective 
January 1 of year ten. 
 
7. Products of List No. 5 originating in Singapore shall be excluded from exemption or 
progressive abolishment of customs duties and any other charges having equivalent effect 
when exported directly into Jordan. 
 
8. Customs duties and any other charges having equivalent effect not higher than those effective 
on the date of signing this Agreement shall be approved as a base rate when applying the 
provisions of this Agreement. Any reductions on customs duties and any other charges having 
equivalent effect subsequent to the date of entry into force of this Agreement shall replace the 
above approved base rate as the new base rate.  
 
9. For the purpose of classifying goods and products traded between both Parties under this 
Agreement the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System shall be used. Where 
there is a difference in classification of any particular good between the Parties, the Parties 
may request the World Customs Organisation for a determination. 
 
10. For the purposes of paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 6, the year of entry into force of the Agreement 
shall be considered as the first year of implementation of the tariff concessions. Thereafter, 
each year of implementation of tariff concessions shall commence on 1 January of that year.  
 
11. Both parties of the Agreement shall exchange their national Tariff Schedules and lists of other 
charges effective on the date of signing this Agreement.  
