 
 
ANNEX 4B 
 
SINGAPORE’S SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
1.  The  classification  of  service  sectors  in  this  schedule  is  based  on  the  1991 
provisional Central Product Classification (CPC) of the United Nations Statistical 
Office unless otherwise indicated by the absence of a CPC number.  The ordering 
reflects  the  services  sectoral  classification  list  as  used  in  the  GATT  document 
MTN.GNS/W/120  dated  10  July  1991.    The  scheduling  of  specific  commitments 
follows  the  guidelines  stated  in  GATT  documents  MTN.GNS/W/164  dated  3 
September 1993 and MTN.GNS/W/164/Add.1 dated 30 November 1993.  
 
2.         The use of “ ** ” against individual CPC codes indicates that the specific 
commitment for that code shall not extend to the total range of services covered under 
that code.  The entry “Unbound*” means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
 
 
   2
   3
   4
   5
   6
   7
   8
    Unlimited Corporation     
-  Only registered architects or allied  
  professionals (Professional Engineers or  
  Land Surveyors) shall be a director of  
  the corporation 
 
   9
    Partnership     
-  The partnership consists of only  
  registered architects with valid  
  practising certificates and allied  
  professionals;  and 
 
   10
   11
  -  Not less than two-thirds or such lower      
    proportion as the Minister for National  
  Development may specify in relation to  
  any corporation of each class of shares  
  of the corporation shall be beneficially  
  owned by and registered in the names of  
  registered Professional Engineers or  
  allied professionals 
  -  Professional engineering work in      
  Singapore will be under the control and  
  management of a director of the  
  corporation who is a registered owner  
  of at least one share of the corporation;  
  who is a registered Professional  
  Engineer ordinarily resident in  
  Singapore and who has a valid  
  Certificate 
 
    Unlimited Corporation     
-  Only registered Professional Engineers  
  or allied professionals (registered  
  Architects or Land Surveyors) shall be a  
  director of the corporation 
  -  The articles of association of the      
  corporation provide that any person  
  who is neither a registered Professional  
  Engineer nor an allied professional, or  
  Is a nominee of such a person, or is not  
  a director, manager or employee of the  
  corporation, shall not be registered as a  
  member of that corporation 
   12
   13
   14
   15
   16
   17
   18
   19
                                                           
  1 This includes voice, data and facsimile services. 
  
   20
   21
   22
   23
   24
   25
(b)  Non-life insurance services   1)  Unbound  1)  Unbound   
  including disability income,   2)  None except that compulsory insurance   2)  None 
  accident and health     of Motor Third Party Liability and    
  insurance and contracts of     Workmen's Compensation may only be   
  fidelity bonds, performance   purchased from registered insurance companies   
  bonds or similar contracts   in Singapore.   
  of guarantee 
 
   26
   27
(a)  Acceptance of deposits and   1)  Unbound  1)  Unbound   
  other repayable funds from   2)  None  2)  None 
  the public  3)  Only institutions licensed or approved as banks,  3)  Commercial banks 
  merchant banks and finance companies    
  can accept deposits. 
   28
        Offshore banks can accept foreign    
  Currency fixed deposits from residents  
  and non-residents.  For Singapore  
  dollar deposits, they can only accept  
  fixed deposits of S$250,000 or more  
  per deposit from non-residents. 
    Commercial banks     
  No new full and restricted banks.  New  
  foreign banks may only establish as  
  offshore bank branches or  
  representative offices.  Representative  
  offices cannot conduct business or act  
  as agents. 
   29
      Merchant banks can, with MAS'    
  Authorization, raise foreign currency  
  funds from residents and non- 
  residents, operate foreign currency  
  savings accounts for non-residents and  
  raise Singapore dollar funds from  
  their shareholders and companies  
  controlled by their shareholders,  
  banks, other merchant banks and  
  finance companies. 
   30
(b)  Lending of all types   1)  Unbound  1)  None   
  including consumer credit,   2)  None  2)  None 
  mortgage credit, factoring   3)  (i)  Other than in-house credit cards, credit and  3)  Each offshore bank's lending in  
  and financing of  charge cards may be issued by card issuers    Singapore dollars to residents shall  
  commercial transaction  approved by MAS subject to MAS' guidelines.    not exceed S$200m in aggregate. 
 
   31
   32
   33
   34
  -  money market  2)  None  2)  None   
instruments   3)  Banks and merchant banks are required   3)  None except as indicated for activity  
    (including cheques,    to set up separate subsidiaries to trade    B(b) above. 
bills, certificates of    financial futures for customers. 
deposit)    Financial futures brokers can establish  
  -  foreign exchange    as branches or subsidiaries.  
  -  derivative products,     The offer of derivative products by both  
    including financial    local and foreign-owned financial  
futures and options    institutions is allowed provided: 
  -  exchange rate and 
interest rate 
    instruments, including  
    swaps and forward rate  
    agreements 
  -  transferable securities  -  the product has been offered by the      
  -  other negotiable     financial institution in other  
    instruments     internationally-reputable financial  
    and financial assets,     centres and the supervisory authorities  
    including bullion    of those centres agree to the offer of  
  such products in their markets; 
  -  the financial institution's parent      
  supervisor and its head office must be  
  aware and have no objection to the offer  
  of such products in the Singapore  
  branch/subsidiary;  and 
  -  MAS is satisfied that the financial      
  institution has and continues to have the      
  financial strength and adequate internal    
  controls and risk management systems    
  to trade in these products.   
 
   35
   36
   37
   38
 
   39
   40
   41
 
   42
 
   43
 
ANNEX 
 
  REFERENCE PAPER  
 
Scope 
 
The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications 
services.   
 
Definitions 
 
Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.   
 
Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that 
 
  (a)  are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers;  and 
 
  (b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service. 
 
A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having 
regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of: 
  
  (a)  control over essential facilities;  or 
 
  (b)  use of its position in the market. 
 
 
1.  Competitive safeguards 
 
1.1  Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications 
 
  Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or 
together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices. 
 
1.2  Safeguards 
 
  The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular: 
 
  (a)  engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;   
 
  (b)  using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results;  and 
 
  (c)  not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical information about 
essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide 
services.  
 
2.  Interconnection 
 
2.1  This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport networks 
or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier 
and  to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken. 
 
2.2  Interconnection to be ensured 
   44
 
  Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network.  
Such interconnection is provided. 
 
  (a)  under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) 
and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for 
like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
 
  (b)  in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and 
cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and 
sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities 
that it does not require for the service to be provided;  and 
 
  (c)  upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of 
users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities. 
 
2.3  Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations 
 
  The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available. 
 
2.4  Transparency of interconnection arrangements 
 
  It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or 
a reference interconnection offer. 
 
2.5  Interconnection:  dispute settlement 
 
  A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either: 
 
(a)  at any time or 
 
(b)  after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known to an independent 
domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve 
disputes  regarding  appropriate  terms,  conditions  and  rates  for  interconnection  within  a 
reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously. 
 
3.  Universal service 
 
  Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain.  
Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a 
transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than 
necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Member.    
 
4.  Public availability of licensing criteria 
 
  Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available: 
 
  (a)  all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning 
an application for a licence  and 
 
  (b)  the terms and conditions of  individual licences. 
 
  The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request. 
 
   45
5.  Independent regulators 
 
  The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications 
services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all 
market participants. 
 
6.  Allocation and use of scarce resources 
 
  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and 
rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The 
current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of 
frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.  
 