 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 14.1: Definitions 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 14  
 
 TRANSPARENCY 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
Administrative ruling of general application means an administrative ruling or  
interpretation that applies to all persons and fact situations and that is relevant to 
the implementation of this Agreement but does not include: 
 
(a) 
a determination or ruling made in administrative or quasi-judicial  
proceedings that applies to a particular person, good, or service of 
another Party in a specific case; or 
 
(b) 
a ruling that adjudicates with respect to a particular act or practice. 
 
 
Article 14.2: Publication 
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations, procedures, and 
administrative rulings of general application with respect to any matter covered by  
this Agreement are promptly published or otherwise made available
1 in such a 
manner as to enable interested persons and Parties to become acquainted with 
them. 
 
2. 
 
When possible, each Party shall: 
 
(a) 
publish in advance any measure referred to in Paragraph 1 that it 
proposes to adopt; and 
 
(b) 
provide, where appropriate, interested persons and Parties with a 
reasonable opportunity to comment on such proposed measures. 
 
 
Article 14.3: Administrative Proceedings 
 
With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial, and reasonable 
manner all measures affecting matters covered by this Agreement, each Party 
shall ensure in its administrative proceedings applying measures referred to in 
Article 14.2(1) to particular persons, goods, or services of the other Parties in 
specific cases that: 
 
 
1 Including through the Internet or in print form. 
14-1 
 
 
 
(a)   wherever possible, persons of another Party that are directly affected 
by a proceeding are provided reasonable notice, in accordance with 
domestic procedures, when a proceeding is initiated, including a 
description of the nature of the proceeding, a statement of the legal 
authority under which the proceeding is initiated, and a general 
description of any issues in question; 
 
(b)   
such persons are afforded a reasonable opportunity to present facts 
and arguments in support of their positions prior to any final 
administrative action, when time, the nature of the proceeding, and 
the public interest permit; and 
 
(c)   its procedures are in accordance with domestic law. 
 
 
Article 14.4: Review and Appeal 
 
1. 
 
Each Party shall, where warranted, establish or maintain judicial, quasi-  
judicial, or administrative tribunals, or procedures for the purpose of the prompt  
review and correction of final administrative actions regarding matters covered by  
this Agreement, other than those taken for prudential reasons.  Such tribunals shall 
be impartial and independent of the office or authority entrusted with administrative 
enforcement and shall not have any substantial interest in the outcome of the 
matter.  
 
2. 
 
Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or procedures, the 
Parties to the proceedings are provided with the right to: 
 
(a)   a reasonable opportunity to support or defend their respective 
positions; and 
 
(b)   a decision based on the evidence and submissions of record or, 
where required by domestic law, the record compiled by the 
administrative authority. 
 
3. 
 
Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further review as provided in 
its domestic law, that such decision shall be implemented by, and shall govern the 
practice of, the offices or authorities with respect to the administrative action at  
issue. 
 
 
Article 14.5: Contact Points 
 
1. 
 
Each Party shall designate a contact point or points to facilitate  
communications among the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement. 
 
 
14-2 
 
 
 
2.   
On the request of another Party, the contact points shall identify the office or 
official responsible for the matter and assist, as necessary, in facilitating 
communications with the requesting Party. 
 
 
Article 14.6: Notification and Provision of Information 
 
1.   
Where a Party considers that any proposed or actual measure might 
materially affect the operation of this Agreement or otherwise substantially affect 
another Party’s interests under this Agreement, that Party shall notify the interested 
Party, to the extent possible, of the proposed or actual measure. 
 
2.   
On request of another Party, a Party shall provide information and respond 
to questions pertaining to any actual or proposed measure, whether or not that  
other Party has been previously notified of that measure. 
 
3.   
Any notification, request, or information under this Article shall be conveyed 
to the other Parties through their contact points. 
 
4.   
Any notification or information provided under this Article shall be without 
prejudice as to whether the measure is consistent with this Agreement.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14-3 
