 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 12.1: Definitions 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 12  
 
TRADE IN SERVICES 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
commercial presence means any type of business or professional establishment, 
including through: 
 
(a)   the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a legal person; or 
 
(b)   the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office, within 
the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service;   
 
enterprise means an enterprise as defined in Article 2.1 (Definitions of General 
Application), and a branch of an enterprise;   
 
measures adopted or maintained by a Party means measures adopted or  
maintained by: 
 
(a)   central or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(b)   non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central 
or local governments or authorities. 
 
Such measures include measures affecting: 
 
(a)   the production, distribution, marketing, sale, and delivery of a service; 
 
(b)   the purchase or use of, or payment for, a service; 
 
(c)   the access to and use of distribution, transport, or telecommunications 
networks and services in connection with the supply of a service; 
 
(d)   the presence, including commercial presence in its territory of a service 
supplier of another Party; and 
 
(e)   the provision of a bond or other form of financial security as a condition 
for the supply of a service; 
 
service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means any service 
which is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or 
more service suppliers;   
 
12-1 
 
 
 
 
 
service supplier of a Party means a person of a Party that seeks to supply or  
supplies a service;   
 
specialty air services means any non-transportation air services, such as aerial 
fire fighting, sightseeing, spraying, surveying, mapping, photography, parachute 
jumping, glider towing, and helicopter-lift for logging and construction, and other 
airborne agricultural, industrial, and inspection services; 
 
state enterprise means an enterprise that is owned, or controlled through 
ownership interests, by a Party;   
 
trade in services or supply of services means the supply of a service: 
 
(a)   from the territory of one Party into the territory of another Party (“cross- 
border mode”); 
 
(b)   in the territory of one Party by a person of that Party to a person of  
another Party (“consumption abroad mode”);   
 
(c)   by a service supplier of one Party, through commercial presence in the 
territory of another Party (“commercial presence mode”); or 
 
(d)   by a national of a Party in the territory of another Party (“presence of 
natural persons mode”). 
 
 
Article 12.2: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to facilitate expansion of trade in services  
on a mutually advantageous basis, under conditions of transparency and 
progressive liberalisation, while recognising the rights of Parties to regulate 
services, including to introduce new regulations, and the role of governments in 
providing and funding public services, giving due respect to national policy 
objectives including where these reflect local circumstances. 
 
 
Article 12.3: Scope 
 
1.   
This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party  
affecting trade in services.   
 
2.   
This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
(a)   financial services as defined in Annex 12.A;   
 
 
12-2 
 
 
 
(b)   government procurement, which means any law, regulation, policy, or 
procedure of general application governing the procurement by 
governmental agencies of services purchased for governmental 
purposes and not with a view to commercial resale or with a view to use 
in the supply of services for commercial sale;
1  
 
(c)   services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority;   
 
(d)   subsidies or grants provided by a Party or a state enterprise,
2    or  any  
conditions attached to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies  
or grants, whether or not such subsidies or grants are offered 
exclusively to domestic services, service consumers or service 
suppliers;   
 
(e)   measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the employment  
market of a Party; or 
 
(f)   measures regarding citizenship, nationality, residence or employment on 
a permanent basis. 
 
3.   
This Chapter shall not apply to air transport services, whether scheduled or 
non-scheduled, or to related services in support of air services,
3 other than the 
following:   
 
(a) 
aircraft repair and maintenance services during which an aircraft is 
withdrawn from service; 
 
(b) 
the selling and marketing of air transport services; 
 
(c) 
computer reservation system services; 
 
(d) 
speciality air services; and 
 
(e)   international air transportation services as set out in the 
Multilateral 
Agreement on the Liberalisation of International Air Transportation 
(MALIAT), and, to the extent that there are any inconsistencies between 
this Agreement and those of the MALIAT, the rights and obligations  
under the MALIAT at any given time shall prevail. 
 
4.    Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to 
regulate the entry of natural persons of another Party into, or their temporary stay 
in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and 
 
1 In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and Chapter 11 (Government  
Procurement) the latter Chapter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.   
2 This includes government supported loans, guarantees, and insurance. 
3 For example, ground handling services. 
12-3 
 
 
 
to ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across, its borders, provided 
that such measures are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the 
benefits accruing to that other Party under the terms of this Chapter.  The sole fact 
of requiring a visa for natural persons of certain countries and not for those of  
others shall not be regarded as nullifying benefits under this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 12.4: National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of another Party,  
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to its own 
services and service suppliers. 
 
 
Article 12.5: Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of another Party 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to services  
and service suppliers of a non-Party. 
 
 
Article 12.6: Market Access 
 
No Party shall, either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on the basis  
of its entire territory, adopt or maintain: 
 
(a) 
limitations on the number of service suppliers whether in the form of 
numerical quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the 
requirements of an economic needs test; 
 
(b) 
limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the form 
of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(c) 
limitations on the total number of service operations or on the total 
quantity of service output expressed in terms of designated numerical 
units in the form of quotas or the requirement of an economic needs  
test;
4  
 
(d) 
limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed 
in a particular service sector or that a service supplier may employ and 
who are necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific  
service in the form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an 
economic needs test; and 
 
 
 
4 This paragraph does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of services. 
12-4 
 
 
 
(e) 
measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint  
venture through which a service supplier may supply a service. 
 
 
Article 12.7: Local Presence 
 
No Party may require a service supplier of another Party to establish or 
maintain a representative office or any form of enterprise, or to be resident, in its 
territory as a condition for the supply of a service. 
 
 
Article 12.8: Non-conforming Measures 
 
1.      Articles 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 12.7 shall not apply to: 
 
(a)   any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a Party at: 
 
(i)   the central level of government, as set out by that Party in its 
Schedule to Annex III, or 
 
(ii)   a local level of government; 
 
(b)   the continuation or prompt renewal of any non-conforming measure 
referred to in Subparagraph (a); or 
 
(c)  an amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in 
Subparagraph (a) to the extent that the amendment does not decrease 
the conformity of the measure, as it existed immediately before the 
amendment, with Articles 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 12.7. 
 
2.      Articles 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 12.7 do not apply to any measure that a Party  
adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors, or activities, as set out in 
its Schedule to Annex IV. 
 
 
Article 12.9: Review  
 
The Parties shall consult within two years of entry into force of this 
Agreement and at least every three years thereafter, or as otherwise agreed, to 
review the implementation of this Chapter and consider other trade in services  
issues of mutual interest, with a view to the progressive liberalisation of the trade in 
services among them on a mutually advantageous basis.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
12-5 
 
 
 
 
Article 12.10: Domestic Regulation 
 
1.    Each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application affecting 
trade in services are administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.    With a view to ensuring that measures relating to qualification requirements 
and procedures, technical standards, and licensing requirements do not constitute 
unnecessary barriers to trade in services, each Party shall ensure that any such  
measures that it adopts or maintains are: 
 
(a)   based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and 
the ability to supply the service; 
 
(b)   not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the 
service; and 
 
(c)   in the case of licensing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on 
the supply of the service. 
 
3.   
In determining whether a Party is in conformity with its obligations under  
Paragraph 2, account shall be taken of international standards of relevant  
international organisations applied by that Party. 
 
4.   
Where a Party requires authorisation for the supply of a service, the 
competent authorities of that Party shall, within a reasonable period of time after 
the submission of an application considered complete under domestic laws and 
regulations, inform the applicant of the decision concerning the application.  At the 
request of the applicant, the competent authorities of the Party shall provide,  
without undue delay, information concerning the status of the application.  This 
obligation shall not apply to authorisation requirements that are within the scope of  
Article 12.8(2). 
 
5. 
 
If the results of the negotiations related to Article VI:4 of GATS (or the 
results of any similar negotiations undertaken in other multilateral forums in which 
the Parties participate) enter into effect, the Parties shall jointly review these results  
with a view to their incorporation in this Agreement.  The Parties agree to 
coordinate on such negotiations as appropriate. 
 
 
Article 12.11: Professional Qualifications and Registration 
 
1.   
For the purposes of the fulfilment, in whole or in part, of its standards or  
criteria for the authorisation, licensing, or certification of service suppliers, and 
subject to the requirements of Paragraph 4, a Party may recognise the education 
 
 
12-6 
 
 
 
or experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in a 
particular Party or non-Party.   
 
2. 
 
Where a Party recognises, autonomously or by agreement or arrangement,  
the education or experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or  
certifications granted in the territory of a non-Party, nothing in Article 12.5 shall be  
construed to require the Party to accord such recognition to the education or  
experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in the 
territory of another Party. 
 
3. 
 
 A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type referred 
to in Paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for  
another Party, upon request, to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or 
arrangement or to negotiate comparable ones with it.  Where a Party accords  
recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for another Party to 
demonstrate that education, experience, licenses, or certifications obtained or  
requirements met in that other Party’s territory should be recognised. 
 
4. 
 A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner which would constitute a 
means of discrimination between countries in the application of its standards or  
criteria for the authorisation, licensing, or certification of service suppliers, or a 
disguised restriction on trade in services.   
 
5. 
 
As set out in Annex 12.B, the Parties agree to facilitate the establishment of 
dialogue among their regulators and/or relevant industry bodies with a view to the 
achievement of early outcomes on recognition of professional qualifications and/or 
professional registration.   Such outcomes may be achieved through 
harmonisation, 
recognition of regulatory outcomes, recognition of professional 
qualifications and professional registration awarded by one Party as a means of  
complying with the regulatory requirements of another Party whether accorded 
unilaterally or by mutual arrangement, including where appropriate through an 
Implementing Arrangement.   
 
6. 
 
The initial priority areas for work on professional qualification and 
professional recognition requirements are engineers, architects, geologists, 
geophysicists, planners, and accountants.  The priority areas and the recognition 
outcomes achieved on priorities shall be reviewed within the time periods set out in 
Article 12.9. 
 
 
Article 12.12: Denial of Benefits 
 
Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party may deny the benefits 
of this Chapter to: 
 
 
 
 
12-7 
 
 
 
(a)   service suppliers of another Party where the service is being supplied by  
an enterprise that is owned or controlled by persons of a non-Party and 
the enterprise has no substantive business operations in the territory of 
any Party; or 
 
(b)   service suppliers of another Party where the service is being supplied by  
an enterprise that is owned or controlled by persons of the denying 
Party and the enterprise has no substantive business operations in the 
territory of any Party. 
 
 
Article 12.13: Transparency 
 
1. 
 
Each Party shall publish promptly or otherwise make publicly available 
international agreements pertaining to or affecting trade in services to which it is a  
signatory. 
 
2. 
 
Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by any other Party for 
specific information on any of its measures of general application which pertain to 
or affect the operation of this Chapter or international agreements within the 
meaning of Paragraph 1.   
 
3. 
 
Each Party shall also designate one or more enquiry points to provide 
specific information to the other Parties, upon request, on all such matters. 
 
 
Article 12.14: Subsidies 
 
Notwithstanding Article 12.3, the Parties shall review the issue of disciplines 
on subsidies related to trade in services in the light of any disciplines agreed under  
Article XV of GATS with a view to their incorporation into this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 12.15: Payments and transfers 
 
Except as provided in Annex 12.C, each Party shall permit all payments and 
transfers for current transactions and capital movements, with regard to trade in 
services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12-8 
 
 
 
Annex 12.A 
 
Financial service 
means any service of a financial nature.  Financial services  
include all insurance and insurance-related services, and all banking and other 
financial services (excluding insurance), as well as services incidental or auxiliary 
to a service of a financial nature.  Without limiting this definition, financial services 
include the following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(a) 
direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(i) life, 
 
(ii) non-life; 
 
(b) 
reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(c) 
insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; 
 
(d) 
services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk 
assessment, and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
(e) 
acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
 
(f) 
lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring 
and financing of commercial transactions; 
 
(g) 
financial leasing; 
 
(h) 
all payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge 
and debit cards, travellers cheques, and bankers drafts; 
 
(i) 
guarantees and commitments; 
 
(j) 
trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an 
exchange, in an over-the-counter market, or otherwise, the following: 
 
(i) 
money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates of 
deposits, 
 
(ii) 
foreign exchange, 
 
(iii) derivative products including, futures and options, 
 
12-9 
 
 
 
 
 
(iv) exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products 
such as swaps, forward rate agreements, 
 
(v) 
transferable securities, or 
 
(vi) other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including bullion; 
 
(k) 
participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting 
and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of  
services related to such issues; 
 
(l) 
money broking; 
 
(m) asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of 
collective investment management, pension fund management, 
custodial, depository, and trust services; 
 
(n) 
settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including 
securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
(o) 
provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data 
processing and related software by suppliers of other financial services; 
and 
 
(p) 
advisory, intermediation, and other auxiliary financial services on all the 
activities listed in Subparagraphs (e) through (o), including credit  
reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice,  
advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12-10 
 
 
 
Annex 12.B 
 
Professional Services 
 
 
Development of Professional Standards 
 
1. 
 
Professional services means services, the provision of which requires  
specialised post secondary education, or equivalent training or experience, and for 
which the right to practice is granted or restricted by a Party, but does not include 
services provided by trades persons or vessel and aircraft crew members.   
 
2.   
The Parties shall encourage the relevant bodies in their respective territories  
to develop mutually acceptable standards and criteria for licensing and certification 
of professional service providers and to provide recommendations on mutual 
recognition to the Commission. 
 
3.   
The standards and criteria referred to in Paragraph 2 may be developed 
with regard to the following matters: 
 
(a) 
education - accreditation of schools or academic programs; 
 
(b)  examinations - qualifying examinations for licensing, including  
alternative methods of assessment such as oral examinations and 
interviews;  
 
(c) 
experience - length and nature of experience required for licensing;  
 
(d) 
conduct and ethics - standards of professional conduct and the nature of 
disciplinary action for non-conformity with those standards; 
 
(e) 
professional development and re-certification - continuing education and 
ongoing requirements to maintain professional certification; 
 
(f) 
scope of practice - extent of, or limitations on, permissible activities; 
 
(g) 
local knowledge - requirements for knowledge of such matters as local 
laws, regulations, language, geography, or climate; and 
 
(h) 
consumer protection - alternatives to residency requirements, including 
bonding, professional liability insurance, and client restitution funds, to 
provide for the protection of consumers. 
 
4.   
On receipt of a recommendation referred to in Paragraph 2, the Commission  
shall review the recommendation within a reasonable time to determine whether it  
is consistent with this Agreement.  Based on the Commission’s review, each Party 
 
12-11 
 
 
 
shall encourage its respective competent authorities, where appropriate, to  
implement the recommendation within a mutually agreed time. 
 
 
Temporary Licensing 
 
5.   
Where the Parties agree, each Party shall encourage the relevant bodies in 
its territory to develop procedures for the temporary licensing of professional 
service providers of the other Party. 
 
 
Review  
 
6.   
Subject to Article 12.11(6), the Commission shall review the implementation 
of this Annex.  The Commission shall include within the scope of its review any  
differences in regulatory approaches between the Parties.  Among other issues, a 
Party may raise issues connected with the development of international standards  
of relevant international organisations related to professional services.
5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 The term “relevant international organisations” refers to international bodies whose membership is  
open to the relevant bodies of at least two Parties. 
 
12-12 
 
 
 
Annex 12.C 
 
Payments and Transfers 
 
Chile 
 
 
With respect to its obligations under Article 12.15 (Payments and Transfers), Chile 
reserves: 
 
1. 
 
The right, without prejudice to Paragraph 3 of this Annex, to maintain  
existing requirements that transfers from Chile of proceeds from the sale of all or  
any part of an investment of an investor of a Party
6 or from the partial or complete 
liquidation of the investment may not take place until a period not to exceed: 
 
(a) 
in the case of an investment made pursuant to Decree Law 600 Foreign 
Investment Statute (Decreto Ley 600, Estatuto de la Inversion 
Extranjera), one year has elapsed from the date of transfer to Chile; or   
 
(b) 
in the case of an investment made pursuant to Law 18.657 Foreign 
Capital Investment Fund Law (Ley 18.657, Ley Sobre Fondo de  
Inversiones de Capitales Extranjeros), five years have elapsed from the 
date of transfer to Chile;   
 
2. 
 
The right to adopt measures, consistent with this Annex, establishing future 
special voluntary investment programs in addition to the general regime for foreign 
investment in Chile, except that any such measures may restrict transfers from 
Chile of proceeds from the sale of all or any part of an investment of an investor of 
another Party or from the partial or complete liquidation of the investment for a 
period not to exceed five years from the date of transfer to Chile; and 
 
3. 
 
The right of the Central Bank of Chile to maintain or adopt measures in 
conformity with the Constitutional Organic Law of the Central Bank of Chile (Ley  
Orgánica Constitucional del Banco Central de Chile, Ley 18.840 – hereinafter Law 
18.840) or other legislation, in order to ensure currency stability and the normal 
operation of domestic and foreign payments.  For this purpose, the Central Bank of 
Chile is empowered to regulate the supply of money and credit in circulation and 
international credit and foreign exchange operations.  The Central Bank of Chile is  
empowered as well to issue regulations governing monetary, credit, financial, and 
foreign exchange matters.  Such measures include, inter alia, the establishment of 
restrictions or limitations on current payments and transfers (capital movements) to 
or from Chile, as well as transactions related to them, such as requiring that 
deposits, investments or credits from or to a foreign country, be subject to a 
reserve requirement (“encaje”). 
 
6 Investment of an investor of a Party, refers to a commercial presence of a service supplier of a 
Party. 
12-13 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the reserve requirement that the Central Bank of 
Chile can apply pursuant to Article 49 No. 2 of Law 18.840, shall not exceed 30 per  
cent of the amount transferred and shall not be imposed for a period which 
exceeds two years. 
 
4. 
 
When applying measures under this Annex, Chile, as established in its  
legislation, shall not discriminate between the Parties to this Agreement and any  
non-Party with respect to transactions of the same nature. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12-14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
 
 
 
Annex 12.D 
 
DL 600 
 
Chile 
 
 
It is understood that this Chapter does not limit the right of the Foreign 
Investment Committee to regulate the terms and conditions of any investment 
contract under the Foreign Investment Statute, Decree Law 600.  Furthermore, it is  
also understood that the Foreign Investment Committee is not obliged to enter into 
investment contracts. 
 
2. 
 
For greater certainty, commercial presence established in Chile under the 
terms and conditions set out in an investment contract shall be subject to the rights 
and obligations of this Chapter from the date of transfer pursuant to the investment 
contract.  Execution of an investment contract under DL 600 by a service supplier 
of another Party does not create any right on the part of the service supplier to 
engage in particular activities in Chile.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12-15 
