 
 
 
CHAPTER 20  
 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 20.1: Investment Negotiations 
 
Unless otherwise agreed, no later than 2 years after entry into force of this  
Agreement the Parties shall commence negotiations with a view to including a 
chapter on investment in this Agreement on a mutually advantageous basis. 
 
 
Article 20.2: Financial Services Negotiations   
 
Unless otherwise agreed, no later than 2 years after the entry into force of 
this Agreement the Parties shall commence negotiations with a view to including a 
self-contained chapter on financial services in this Agreement on a mutually  
advantageous basis. 
 
 
Article 20.3: Signature 
 
1. 
 
This Agreement shall be open for signature by Brunei Darussalam, Chile,  
New Zealand and Singapore and shall remain open for signature for a period of  
6 months from 15 June 2005. 
 
2. 
 
This Agreement shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by 
signatories.  
 
 
 
Article 20.4: Entry into Force 
 
1. 
 
This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2006 for those 
signatories which have deposited an Instrument of Ratification, Acceptance or  
Approval provided that at least two signatories have deposited such instrument by 
that date. 
 
2. 
 
In the event that only one signatory has deposited an Instrument of 
Ratification, Acceptance or Approval before 1 January 2006, this Agreement shall 
enter into force 30 days after the deposit of the second such instrument. 
 
3. 
 
For signatories that deposit an Instrument of Ratification, Acceptance or 
Approval after 1 January 2006, the Agreement shall enter into force 30 days  
following the date of deposit of such instrument. 
 
 
20-1 
 
 
 
Article 20.5: Brunei Darussalam 
 
1. 
 
Subject to Paragraphs 2 to 6, this Agreement shall be provisionally applied   
in respect of Brunei Darussalam from 1 January 2006, or 30 days after the deposit  
of an instrument accepting provisional application of this Agreement, whichever is 
the later. 
 
2. 
 
The provisional application referred to in Paragraph 1 shall not apply to 
Chapter 11 (Government Procurement) and Chapter 12 (Trade in Services). 
 
3. 
 
The obligations of Chapter 9 (Competition Policy) shall only be applicable to  
Brunei Darussalam if it develops a competition law and establishes a competition 
authority.  Notwithstanding the above, Brunei Darussalam shall adhere to the 
APEC Principles to Enhance Competition and Regulatory Reform.   
 
4. 
 
The Commission shall consider whether to accept the Annexes for Brunei 
Darussalam under Chapter 11 (Government Procurement) and Chapter 12 (Trade 
in Services), no later than two years after the entry into force of this Agreement in 
accordance with Article 20.4(1) or (2), unless the Commission otherwise agrees to 
a later date. 
 
5. 
 
Upon a decision of the Commission accepting the Annexes referred to in 
Paragraph 4, Brunei Darussalam shall deposit an Instrument of Ratification, 
Acceptance or Approval within two months of the decision by the Commission. The 
Agreement shall enter into force for Brunei Darussalam 30 days after the deposit of  
such instrument 
 
6. 
 
Unless the Commission decides otherwise, if the conditions in Paragraph 4 
or 5 are not met, the Agreement shall no longer be provisionally applied to Brunei 
Darussalam. 
 
 
Article 20.6: Accession 
 
1. 
 
This Agreement is open to accession on terms to be agreed among the 
Parties, by any APEC Economy or other State.  The terms of such accession shall 
take into account the circumstances of that APEC Economy or other State, in 
particular with respect to timetables for liberalisation.   
 
2. 
 
The agreement on the terms of accession shall enter into force 30 days  
following the date of deposit with the depositary of an Instrument of Accession 
which indicates acceptance or approval of such terms. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20-2 
 
 
 
Article 20.7: Amendments 
 
1. 
 
2. 
 
The Parties may agree on any modification of or addition to this Agreement. 
 
When so agreed, and approved in accordance with the applicable legal 
procedures of each Party, a modification or addition shall constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
 
If any provision of the WTO Agreement that the Parties have incorporated 
into this Agreement is amended, the Parties shall consult on whether to amend this  
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 20.8: Withdrawal 
 
Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement.  Such withdrawal shall take 
effect upon the expiration of six months from the date on which written notice of 
withdrawal is received by the Depositary. If a Party withdraws, the Agreement shall 
remain in force for the remaining Parties. 
 
 
Article 20.9: Depositary State and Functions 
 
1. 
 
The original of this Agreement shall be deposited with the Government of 
New Zealand which is hereby designated as the Depositary of this Agreement.   
 
2. 
 
The Depositary shall transmit certified copies of this Agreement and any  
amendments to this Agreement to all signatory States, acceding APEC Economies  
and other acceding States. 
 
3. 
 
The Depositary shall notify all signatory States, acceding APEC Economies  
and other acceding States of: 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
 
(c) 
 
 
(d) 
 
each signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to this 
Agreement in accordance with Articles 20.3, 20.4, and 20.6;   
 
the instrument accepting provisional application in accordance with 
Article 20.5; 
 
the respective dates on which the Agreement enters into force in 
accordance with Article 20.4, 20.5 and 20.6; and 
 
any notification of withdrawal received in accordance with Article 
20.8. 
 
 
 
 
20-3 
 
 
 
4. 
 
 
 
Following entry into force of this Agreement, the Depositary shall transmit a 
certified true copy of this Agreement to the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations for registration and publication in accordance with Article 102 of the 
Charter of the United Nations.  The Depositary shall likewise transmit certified true 
copies of any amendments which enter into force. 
 
 
Article 20.10: Authentic Texts 
 
The English and Spanish texts of this Agreement are equally authentic.  In 
the event of divergence, the English text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised by their  
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement. 
 
 
 
DONE at, ………………………… on ……………………….. 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20-4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Chile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore 
