   
   
   
 
CHAPTER 13  
 
   
  TEMPORARY ENTRY   
 
 
 
Article 13.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
business person means a natural person who has the nationality of a Party 
according to Annex 2.A, who is engaged in trade in goods or supply of services;   
 
immigration measure means any law, regulation, policy or procedure affecting the 
entry and stay of foreign nationals; 
 
temporary entry means the entry into the territory of a Party by a business person 
of the other Party without the intent to establish permanent residence. 
 
 
Article 13.2: Objectives 
   
1.  The objectives of this Chapter are to facilitate the temporary entry of 
business persons of any Party engaged in trade in goods or supply of services 
among the Parties through streamlined, transparent immigration clearance 
procedures for temporary entry, while at the same time ensuring border security  
and protecting the domestic labour force and permanent employment in the 
territories of the Parties. 
   
2.  The Parties affirm their voluntary commitments established in the APEC 
Business Travel Card “Operating Framework”. 
 
 
Article 13.3: Scope 
   
1.  This Chapter does not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking 
access to the employment market of a Party, nor shall it apply to measures  
regarding citizenship, nationality, residence or employment on a permanent basis. 
   
2.  In respect of business persons seeking entry under Chapter 12 (Trade in 
Services), the Parties affirm their rights and obligations under GATS, in particular 
the  Annex on Movement of Natural Persons Supplying Services under the 
Agreement, regarding each Parties’ specific commitments relating to movement of 
natural persons.   
 
 
 
 
 
13-1  
 
 
Article 13.4: Exchange of Information 
   
1.  No later than 6 months after the entry into force of this Agreement, the 
Parties shall exchange information on measures that affect the temporary entry of  
business persons through the contact points designated under Article 14.5  
(Contact Points). 
   
2.  When a Party modifies or amends an immigration measure that affects the 
temporary entry of business persons, such modifications or amendments shall be  
published and made available in such a manner as will enable business persons of 
the other Parties to become acquainted with them. 
 
 
Article 13.5: Review  
   
1.  Two years after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall 
review the rules and conditions applicable to movement of natural persons, with a 
view to achieving a comprehensive chapter on temporary entry, covering broad 
categories of business persons, such as may be proposed by any Party.   
   
2.  If the Parties achieve a mutually advantageous balance of rights in the 
negotiations foreseen in Paragraph 1, the review will also address the scope of the 
definition of business person set out in Article 13.1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13-2    
   
   
 
CHAPTER 14  
 
   
   TRANSPARENCY 
 
 
 
Article 14.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
Administrative ruling of general application means an administrative ruling or  
interpretation that applies to all persons and fact situations and that is relevant to 
the implementation of this Agreement but does not include: 
 
(a)  a determination or ruling made in administrative or quasi-judicial  
proceedings that applies to a particular person, good, or service of 
another Party in a specific case; or 
 
(b)  a ruling that adjudicates with respect to a particular act or practice. 
 
 
Article 14.2: Publication 
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations, procedures, and 
administrative rulings of general application with respect to any matter covered by  
this Agreement are promptly published or otherwise made available1 in such a 
manner as to enable interested persons and Parties to become acquainted with 
them. 
   
2.  When possible, each Party shall: 
 
(a)  publish in advance any measure referred to in Paragraph 1 that it 
proposes to adopt; and 
 
(b)  provide, where appropriate, interested persons and Parties with a 
reasonable opportunity to comment on such proposed measures. 
 
 
Article 14.3: Administrative Proceedings 
 
With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial, and reasonable 
manner all measures affecting matters covered by this Agreement, each Party 
shall ensure in its administrative proceedings applying measures referred to in 
Article 14.2(1) to particular persons, goods, or services of the other Parties in 
specific cases that: 
 
 
 Including through the Internet or in print form. 
1
14-1 