   
   
   
 
CHAPTER 9   
 
   
  COMPETITION POLICY 
 
 
Article 9.1: Objectives 
   
1.  The Parties recognise the strategic importance of creating and maintaining 
open and competitive markets that promote economic efficiency and consumer 
welfare.   
   
2.  To this end each Party is committed to reducing and removing impediments  
to trade and investment including through: 
 
(a)  application of competition statutes to all forms of commercial activity, 
including both private and public business activities; and 
 
(b)  application of competition statutes in a manner that does not  
discriminate between or among economic entities, nor between origin 
and destination of the production. 
   
3.  The Parties recognise that anti-competitive business conduct may frustrate 
the benefits arising from this Agreement. The Parties undertake to apply their 
respective competition laws in a manner consistent with this Chapter so as to avoid 
the benefits of this Agreement in terms of the liberalisation process in goods and 
services being diminished or cancelled out by anti-competitive business conduct.   
 
 
Article 9.2: Competition Law and Enforcement 
   
   
1.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain competition laws that proscribe anti- 
competitive business conduct with the objective of promoting economic efficiency  
and consumer welfare.   
 
2.    With a view to preventing distortions or restrictions on competition the 
Parties will give particular attention to anti-competitive agreements, concerted 
practices or arrangements by competitors and abusive behaviour resulting from 
single or joint dominant positions in a market.  These practices refer to goods and 
services and may be carried out by any enterprise irrespective of the ownership of  
that enterprise. 
   
3.  Competition law shall apply to all commercial activities.  However, each 
Party may exempt specific measures or sectors from the application of their  
general competition law, provided that such exemptions are transparent and 
undertaken on the grounds of public policy or public interest.   Exemptions of the 
Parties as at the date of entry into force of this Agreement are set out in Annex 9.A.   
 
9-1  
 
 
Those exemptions shall not have the objective of negatively affecting trade among 
the Parties.  Should any Party be considering additions to its list of exemptions that 
it considers may affect trade with another Party, it will inform that Party, which may 
request consultations under Article 9.5.  The Commission shall implement any 
additions to or removals from the list of exemptions through an Implementing 
Arrangement.   
   
4.  Each Party shall establish or maintain a competition authority responsible for  
the enforcement of its measures to proscribe anti-competitive business conduct.   
The enforcement policy of each Party’s competition authority shall not discriminate 
on the basis of the nationality of the subjects of their proceedings to the extent that 
they carry on a business within the territory of that Party. 
   
5.  Each Party shall ensure that a person subject to the imposition of a sanction 
or remedy for violation of competition laws is provided with the opportunity to be 
heard and present evidence, and to seek review of such a sanction or remedy in a 
domestic court or independent tribunal. 
 
 
Article 9.3: Cooperation 
 
1.    The Parties agree to cooperate and coordinate in the area of competition 
policy by exchanging information on the development of competition policy.  The  
Parties also recognise the importance of cooperation and coordination between 
their respective competition authorities to further effective competition law 
enforcement in their respective jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the Parties shall 
cooperate on issues of competition law enforcement, including notification, 
consultation and exchanges of information. 
   
2.  The Parties through their respective competition authorities will seek a 
cooperation agreement after the date of the entry into force of this Agreement.   
 
 
Article 9.4: Notifications 
   
1.  Each Party shall notify the other Parties of an enforcement activity regarding 
an anti-competitive business conduct if it: 
 
(a)  considers that the enforcement activity is liable to substantially affect 
another Party's important interests; 
 
(b)  relates to restrictions on competition which are liable to have a direct  
and substantial effect in the territory of another Party; or 
 
(c)  concerns anti-competitive acts taking place principally in the territory of 
another Party. 
 
9-2  
 
 
 
 
2.    Notification shall take place at an early stage of the procedure, provided that 
this is not contrary to the Parties’ competition laws and does not affect any  
investigation being carried out.   
 
 
Article 9.5: Consultations and Exchange of Information 
   
1.  At the request of any Party, the Parties shall consult on any issue adversely 
affecting the competitive interests for trade or investment among them within the 
objectives of this Chapter. 
   
2.  Information or documents exchanged between the Parties in relation to any  
consultation conducted pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be kept  
confidential.  No Party shall, except to comply with its domestic legal requirements, 
release or disclose such information or documents to any person without the 
written consent of the Party that provided such information or documents.  Where 
the disclosure of such information or documents is necessary to comply with the 
domestic legal requirements of a Party, that Party shall notify the other Parties  
before such disclosure is made.  The Parties may agree to the public release of 
information that they do not consider confidential.   
 
 
Article 9.6: Public enterprises and enterprises entrusted with special or 
exclusive rights, including designated monopolies 
   
1.  Nothing in this Chapter prevents a Party from designating or maintaining 
public or private monopolies according to their respective laws.   
   
2.  With regard to public enterprises and enterprises to which special or 
exclusive rights have been granted, the Parties shall ensure that, following the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement, no measure is adopted or maintained that  
distorts trade in goods or services among the Parties, which is contrary to this 
Agreement and contrary to the Parties’ interests, and that such enterprises shall be  
subject to the rules of competition insofar as the application of such rules does not 
obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular tasks assigned to them.   
 
 
Article 9.7: Dispute Settlement 
 
1.    Nothing in this Chapter permits a Party to challenge any decision made by a 
competition authority of another Party in enforcing the applicable competition laws  
and regulations. 
   
2.  No Party shall have recourse to any dispute settlement procedures under  
this Agreement for any issue arising from or relating to this Chapter. 
 
9-3  
 
 
Annex 9.A 
 
 
This Annex lists exemptions from the application of competition law to all 
commercial activities in accordance with Article 9.2 and which may affect the 
benefits arising from this Agreement.  It does not include exemptions from the 
application of competition law that are within the scope of other Chapters of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
New Zealand 
 
Specific exemptions from New Zealand Commerce Act 
 
Pharmaceuticals subsidies by Pharmac (Section 53 of New Zealand Public Health  
and Disability Act 2000) – The Act exempts certain agreements relating to the 
purchase and subsidising of pharmaceuticals from Part II of the Commerce Act  
(restrictive trade practices).   
 
Export arrangements (Section 44(1)(g)) - "Export arrangements" that relate 
exclusively to the export of goods from New Zealand or exclusively to the supply of  
services wholly outside New Zealand are exempt from the Commerce Act (Part II 
on restrictive trade practices), under conditions of due notification to the Commerce 
Commission.   
 
Agricultural Producer Boards – Limited exemptions from Part II of the Commerce 
Act (restrictive trade practices) are contained in the Meat Board Act 2004 and the 
Pork Industry Board Act 1997.  These exemptions relate to arrangements for 
setting levies by the Boards for the purpose of funding their industry-good activities  
(e.g. market promotion and research).  In the case of the Meat Board, the 
exemption extends to the Board’s administration of export tariff quota 
arrangements. 
 
 
 
Singapore 
   
1.  Provision of ordinary letter and postcard services by licensed and regulated 
  entities. 
   
2.  Supply of piped potable water. 
   
3.  Supply of wastewater management services, including the collection,  
  treatment and disposal of wastewater. 
 
 
4.  Public Transport: 
 
9-4    
   
   
 
a. Supply of scheduled bus services by any person licensed and 
 
  regulated under the Public Transport Council Act (Cap. 259B); 
 
b. Supply of rail services by any person licensed and regulated under 
 
the Rapid Transit Systems Act (Cap. 263A).  
 
   
5.  Cargo terminal operations by a person licensed and regulated under the 
  Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 170A). 
 
 
6.  Clearing and exchanging of articles undertaken by the Automated Clearing 
  House (ACH) established under the Banking (Clearing House) Regulations  
 
(Cap. 19, Rg 1), and activities of the Singapore Clearing Houses  
 
Association (SCHA) in relation to its activities regarding the ACH. 
 
   
7.  Mergers and acquisitions (M&As) approved under any written law or any  
code of practice issued under any written law relating to competition, and 
M&As relating to any of the above activities/sectors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9-5 