 
 
 
CHAPTER 17  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 17.1: Establishment of the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic  
Partnership Commission 
 
The Parties hereby establish a Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic  
Partnership Commission (Commission) which may meet at the level of Ministers or 
senior officials, as mutually determined 
by the Parties.  Each Party shall be 
responsible for the composition of its delegation. 
 
 
Article 17. 2: Functions of the Commission 
 
1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 
The Commission shall:   
 
(a) 
consider any matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement;   
 
(b) 
review within 2 years of entry into force of this Agreement and at least  
every 3 years thereafter the economic relationship and partnership 
among the Parties, consider any proposal to amend this Agreement or  
its Annexes and otherwise 
oversee the further elaboration of this  
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
supervise the work of all Committees and working groups established 
under this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
explore measures for the further expansion of trade and investment  
among the Parties and identify appropriate areas of commercial, 
industrial and technical cooperation between relevant enterprises and 
organisations of the Parties; and   
 
(e) 
consider any other matter that may affect the operation of this 
Agreement. 
 
The Commission may:   
 
(a) 
establish committees and working groups, refer matters to any 
committee or working group for advice, and consider matters raised by  
any committee or working group; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17-1 
 
 
 
(b) 
further the implementation of the Agreement’s objectives by approving 
any modifications
1 of, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
 
 
(ii) 
 
the Schedules contained in Annex I (Elimination of Customs  
Duties), by accelerating the elimination of customs duties; 
 
the rules of origin established in Annex II (Specific Rules of  
Origin); or 
 
(iii)  the lists of entities and covered goods and services and  
thresholds contained in Annexes 11.A and 11.C of the Chapter  
11 (Government Procurement). 
 
(c) 
further the implementation of the Agreement’s objectives through 
Implementing Arrangements; 
 
(d) 
seek to resolve differences or disputes that may arise regarding the 
interpretation or application of this Agreement;   
(e) 
seek the advice of non-governmental persons or groups on any matter 
falling within its responsibilities where this would help the Commission  
make an informed decision; and 
(f) 
take such other action in the exercise of its functions as the Parties may 
agree. 
 
 
Article 17.3: Rules of Procedure of the Commission 
 
1. 
 
The Commission may take decisions on any matter within its functions as  
set out in Article 17.2 by mutual agreement of those Parties present at the meeting  
of the Commission.  Any decision affecting a Party shall only be taken by the 
Commission with the express agreement of that Party.   
 
2. 
 
The Commission shall convene annually, or at such other times as the 
Parties may mutually agree.  Annual sessions of the Commission shall be chaired 
successively by each Party.   Other sessions of the Commission shall be chaired 
by the Party convening the meeting.   
 
 
 
1  The acceptance of any modification by a Party is subject to the completion of any necessary 
domestic legal procedures of that Party.  Chile shall implement the actions of the Commission  
through Acuerdos de Ejecución, in accordance with article 50, numeral 1, second paragraph, of the  
of the Constitución Política de la República de Chile.   
 
 
 
 
 
17-2 
 
 
 
3. 
 
 
 
The Party chairing a session of the Commission shall provide any necessary 
administrative support for such session.  Decisions of the Commission shall be 
notified to the Parties by the Party chairing that session of the Commission.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17-3 
