 
ANNEX III 
 
Headnote 
 
1.  Where appropriate, non-conforming measures are referenced to the Provisional 
Central Product Classification (CPC) as set out in Statistical Office of the United Nations 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 77, Provisional Central Product Classification, 1991 
(UN CPC code) and on the basis of the Services Sectoral Classification List WTO 
document MTN.GNS/W/120. 
 
2.  The Schedule of a Party sets out, pursuant to Article 12.8(1) (Non-Conforming 
Measures),  a  Party’s  existing  measures  that  are  not  subject  to  some  or  all  of  the 
obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 12.4 (National Treatment); 
 
(b)  Article 12.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment); 
 
(c)  Article 12.6 (Market Access); or 
 
(d)  Article 12.7 (Local Presence). 
 
For greater certainty, Article 12.6 refers to non-discriminatory measures. 
 
3.  Local Presence and National Treatment are separate disciplines and a measure 
that is only inconsistent with Local Presence need not be reserved against National 
Treatment. 
 
4.  Each entry in a Party’s Schedule sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector in which the entry is made;  
 
(b)  Industry  Classification  refers,  for  the  purpose  of  clarity,  and  where 
applicable, to the activity covered by the entry according to the CPC code; 
 
(c)  Obligations  Concerned  specifies  the  obligation(s)  referred  to  in 
Paragraph 2; 
 
(d)  Measures  identify  laws,  regulations,  procedures,  requirements  or 
practices for which the entry is made.   A measure cited in the Measures 
element: 
 
(i)  means the measure as amended, continued, or renewed as of the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement;  
 
III-Headnote-1  
(ii)  includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the 
authority of and consistent with the measure; and 
 
(e)  Description  sets  out  the  non-conforming  measure  to  which  the  entry 
applies.   
 
5.  Where the title “cross-border services” is used in the description element, the 
entry shall be read to apply to the cross border mode, the consumption abroad mode, 
and the presence of natural persons mode for supply of services. 
 
6.  Where the title “investment” is used in the description element, the entry shall be 
read to apply only to the commercial presence mode for supply of services. 
 
7.  Any aspects of such an entry which relate to investment in goods only, are 
retained solely for transparency purposes. 
 
8.  In accordance with Article 12.8(1)(a) (Non-Conforming Measures), the articles of 
this Agreement specified in the Obligations Concerned element of an entry do not 
apply to the laws, regulations, procedures, requirements or practices identified, in the 
case of Chile, in the Measures element of that entry, and in the case of New Zealand 
and Singapore, in the Description element of that entry. 
 
9.  For  Chile,  the  Measures  element  represents  the  binding  element  for  the 
purposes of interpretation of the entry.  
 
10.  For New Zealand and Singapore, all elements of the entry shall be considered in 
their totality for the purposes of its interpretation.  
 
   
III-Headnote-2  
Schedule of Chile 
 
 
 
Sector  All Sectors 
 
Classification   
 
Obligations  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Concerned 
Measures  Decreto Ley 1939, Diario Oficial, noviembre 10, 1977, Normas 
sobre  adquisición,  administración  y  disposición  de  bienes  del 
Estado, Título I 
 
Decreto  con  Fuerza  de  Ley  4  del  Ministerio  de  Relaciones 
Exteriores, Diario Oficial, noviembre 10, 1967 
 
Description  Investment 
 
Chile may only dispose of the ownership or other related rights 
over “State land” to Chilean natural or juridical persons, unless 
the  applicable  legal  exceptions,  such  as  in  Decreto  Ley  1939, 
apply.  “State land” for these purposes refers to State-owned land 
up to a distance of 10 kilometres from the border and up to a 
distance of 5 kilometres from the coastline. 
 
Corporeal  immovable  property situated  in  areas  declared  “the 
borderland  zone”  by  virtue  of  Decreto  con  Fuerza  de  Ley  4, 
1967,  of  the  Ministerio  de  Relaciones  Exteriores  may  not  be 
acquired, either as property or in any other title, by (1) natural 
persons with nationality in a neighbouring country; (2) juridical 
persons with their principal seat in a neighbouring country; (3) 
juridical persons with 40 percent or more of capital owned by 
natural persons with nationality in a neighbouring country; or (4) 
juridical persons effectively controlled by such natural persons.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this limitation may not apply if an 
exemption is granted by a Decreto Supremo of the President of the 
Republic based on considerations of national interest. 
 
III-CL-1  
 
Sector  All Sectors 
 
Classification   
 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Decreto con Fuerza de Ley 1 del Ministerio del Trabajo y 
Previsión Social, Diario Oficial, enero 24, 1994, Código del 
Trabajo, Título Preliminar, Libro I, Capítulo III 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
A minimum of 85 percent of employees who work for the 
same Chilean employer shall be Chilean natural persons.  
This rule applies to employers with more than 25 employees 
under  a  contract  of  employment  (contrato  de  trabajo).  
Specialised technical personnel who cannot be replaced by 
national personnel shall not be subject to this provision, as 
determined by the Dirección del Trabajo. 
 
An  employee  shall  be  understood  to  mean  any  natural 
person who renders intellectual or material services, under 
dependency  or  subordination,  pursuant  to  a  contract  of 
employment. 
 
Article 20 of the Código del Trabajo shall be understood to 
mean  that  the  personnel  that  an  investor  of  Brunei 
Darussalam, New Zealand or Singapore that has made an 
investment requires for starting up in Chile will be treated, 
for a period of 18 months from the date of start up, as 
specialised technical personnel that cannot be replaced by 
national personnel. 
 
For greater certainty, a contrato de trabajo is not mandatory 
for the supply of cross–border trade in services.   
 
 
III-CL-2  
 
Sector  Communications 
 
Classification   
 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5)  
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
 
Measures  Ley  18838,  Diario  Oficial,  septiembre  30,  1989,  Consejo 
Nacional de Televisión, Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Ley 18168, Diario Oficial, octubre 2, 1982, Ley General de 
Telecomunicaciones, Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Ley  19733,  Diario  Oficial,  junio  4,  2001,  Ley  sobre  las 
Libertades  de  Opinión  e  Información  y  Ejercicio  del 
Periodismo, Títulos I y III 
 
Description  Investment and Cross-Border Services 
 
The  owner  of  a  social  communication  medium  such  as 
sound and image transmissions or a national news agency 
(national  news  agency  means  a  news  agency  duly 
constituted in Chile), shall, in the case of a natural person, 
have a duly established domicile in Chile, and, in the case of 
a juridical person, shall be constituted with domicile in Chile 
or have an agency authorized to operate within the national 
territory.    Only  Chilean  nationals  may  be  president, 
administrators,  or  legal  representatives  of  the  juridical 
person.  In the case of public radio broadcasting services, 
the majority of the members of the Board of Directors must 
be Chilean nationals.  The legally responsible director and 
the person who replaces him or her must be Chilean with 
domicile and residence in Chile. 
 
Requests  for  public  radio  broadcasting  concessions, 
submitted by a juridical person in which foreigners hold an 
interest exceeding 10 percent of the capital, shall be granted 
only if proof is previously provided verifying that similar rights 
and obligations as those that an applicant will enjoy in Chile 
are granted to Chilean nationals in the applicant’s country of 
origin. 
 
III-CL-3  
The  Consejo  Nacional  de  Televisión  may  establish,  as  a 
general requirement, that programs broadcast through public 
(open)  television  channels  include  up  to  40  percent  of 
Chilean production. 
Only juridical persons duly constituted in Chile and having 
domicile in the country may be the titleholders, or make use 
of permits, for limited radio broadcasting telecommunications 
services.    Only  Chilean  nationals  may  be  president, 
managers, or legal representatives of that juridical person. 
 
Only juridical persons duly constituted in Chile and having 
domicile in the country may be the titleholders or make use 
of permits for limited cable television or microwave television 
services.    Only  Chilean  nationals  may  be  president, 
directors,  managers,  administrators,  and  legal 
representatives of the juridical person. 
 
 
III-CL-4  
 
Sector  Energy  
 
Classification  CPC 12   Crude petroleum and natural gas 
  CPC 13   Uranium and Thorium minerals 
CPC 14   Metallic minerals 
CPC 16   Other minerals 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Constitución Política de la República de Chile, Capítulo III 
 
Ley  18097, Diario Oficial,  enero 21, 1982, Ley Orgánica 
Constitucional sobre Concesiones Mineras, Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Ley  18248,  Diario  Oficial,  octubre  14,  1983,  Código  de 
Minería , Títulos I y II 
 
Ley  16319,  Diario  Oficial,  octubre  23,  1965,  crea  la 
Comisión Chilena de Energía Nuclear, Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Description  Investment 
 
The exploration, exploitation, and treatment (beneficio) of 
liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons, deposits of any kind 
existing in sea waters subject to national jurisdiction, and 
deposits of any kind wholly or partially located in areas 
classified as important to national security with mining 
effects, which qualification shall be made by law only, can 
be the object of administrative concessions or special 
operating contracts, subject to the requirements and the 
conditions to be determined, in each case by a supreme 
decree of the President of the Republic.  For greater 
certainty, it is understood that the term beneficio shall not 
include the storage, transportation, or refining of the 
energy material referred to in this paragraph. 
 
The production of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes 
may only be carried out by the Comisión Chilena de 
Energía Nuclear or, with its authorisation, jointly with third 
persons.  Should the Comisión grant such an 
authorisation, it may determine the terms and conditions 
thereof. 
 
III-CL-5  
 
Sector  Mining  
 
Classification  CPC 13  Uranium and Thorium minerals 
  CPC 14  Metallic minerals 
CPC 16  Other minerals 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Constitución Política de la República de Chile, Capítulo III 
 
Ley  18097,  Diario  Oficial,  enero  12,  1982,  Ley  Orgánica 
Constitucional sobre Concesiones Mineras, Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Ley  18248,  Diario  Oficial,  octubre  14,  1983,  Código  de 
Minería, Títulos I y III 
 
Ley 16319, Diario Oficial, octubre 23, 1965, crea la Comisión 
Chilena de Energía Nuclear, Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Description  Investment 
 
The exploration, exploitation, and treatment (beneficio) of 
lithium, deposits of any kind existing in sea waters subject 
to national jurisdiction, and deposits of any kind wholly or 
partially located in areas classified as important to national 
security  with  mining  effects,  which  qualification  shall  be 
made  by  law  only,  can  be  the  object  of  administrative 
concessions or special operating contracts, subject to the 
requirements and the conditions to be determined, in each 
case by a supreme decree of the President of the Republic.
 
For greater transparency, Chile has the right of first refusal, 
at the normal market prices and terms, for the purchase of 
mineral  products  from  mining  operations  in  the  country 
when  thorium  or  uranium  are  contained  in  significant 
amounts therein. 
 
For  greater  certainty,  Chile  may  demand  that  producers 
separate from mining products the portion of: 
 
(1)  liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons; 
(2)  lithium; 
(3)  deposits  of  any  kind  existing  in  sea  waters 
subject to national jurisdiction; and  
(4) deposits of any kind wholly or partially located in 
III-CL-6  
areas  classified  as  important  to  national  security 
with  mining  effects,  which  qualification  shall  be 
made by law only;  
 
that exists, in significant amounts, in such mining products 
and that can be economically and technically separated, for 
delivery to or for sale on behalf of the State.  For these 
purposes,  economically  and  technically  separated  means 
that  the  costs  incurred  to  recover  the  four  types  of 
substances  referred  to  above  through  a  sound  technical 
procedure, and to commercialise and deliver the same shall 
be lower than its commercial value. 
 
Extracted natural atomic materials and lithium, and their 
concentrates,  derivatives,  and  compounds,  cannot  be 
subject  to  any  kind  of  juridical  acts,  unless  executed  or 
entered into by the Comisión Chilena de Energía Nuclear, 
or with its prior authorisation.  Should the Comisión grant 
an authorisation, it shall determine, in turn, the conditions 
granted therein. 
 
 
III-CL-7  
 
Sector  Fisheries 
Aquaculture 
 
Classification  CPC 04  Fish and other fishing products 
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Ley 18892, Diario Oficial enero 21, 1992, Ley General de 
Pesca y Acuicultura, Títulos I y VI 
 
Description  Investment 
 
A concession or authorisation is required for the use of 
beaches, land adjacent to beaches (terrenos de playas), 
water-columns  (porciones  de  agua),  and  sea-bed  lots 
(fondos marinos) to engage in aquaculture activities. 
 
Only  Chilean  natural  or  juridical  persons  constituted  in 
accordance with Chilean law and foreigners with permanent 
residency may hold an authorisation or concession to carry 
out aquaculture activities. 
 
 
III-CL-8  
 
Sector  Fisheries 
 
Classification  CPC 04  Fish and other fishing products 
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4)  
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7)  
 
 
Measures  Ley 18892, Diario Oficial, enero 21, 1992, Ley General de 
Pesca y Acuicultura, Títulos I, III, IV, y IX 
 
Decreto Ley 2.222, Diario Oficial, mayo 31, 1978, Ley de 
Navegación, Títulos I y II 
 
Description  Investment and Cross-Border Services  
 
A permit issued by the Subsecretaría de Pesca is required in 
order to harvest and catch hydrobiological species in interior 
waters,  in  the  territorial  sea,  and  in  Chile’s  Exclusive 
Economic Zone. 
 
Only Chilean natural persons or juridical persons constituted 
in  accordance  with  Chilean  law  and  foreigners  with 
permanent residency may hold permits to harvest and catch 
hydrobiological species. 
 
Only Chilean vessels are permitted to fish in interior waters, 
in the territorial sea, and in Chile’s Exclusive Economic Zone.  
Chilean vessels are those defined in the Ley de Navegación.  
Access  to  industrial  extractive  fishing  activities  shall  be 
subject to prior registration of the vessel in Chile. 
 
Only  a  Chilean  natural  or  juridical  person  may  register  a 
vessel in Chile.  A juridical person must be constituted in 
Chile with principal domicile and real and effective seat in 
Chile.    The  president,  manager,  and  the  majority  of  the 
directors or administrators must be Chilean natural persons.  
In addition, more than 50 percent of its equity capital must be 
held  by  Chilean  natural  or  juridical  persons.    For  these 
purposes, a juridical person with ownership participation in 
another juridical person that owns a vessel has to comply 
with all the requirements mentioned above. 
 
 
III-CL-9  
A joint ownership (comunidad) may register a vessel if (1) the 
majority of the joint ownership is Chilean with domicile and 
residency in Chile; (2) the administrators are Chilean natural 
persons;  and  (3)  the  majority  of  the  rights  of  the  joint 
ownership  (comunidad)  belong  to  a  Chilean  natural  or 
juridical person.  For these purposes, a juridical person with 
ownership participation in a joint ownership (comunidad) that 
owns  a  vessel  has  to  comply  with  all  the  requirements 
mentioned above. 
 
An owner (natural or juridical person) of a fishing vessel 
registered  in  Chile  prior  to  June  30,  1991  shall  not  be 
subject to the nationality requirement mentioned above.  
 
In cases of reciprocity granted to Chilean vessels by other 
States,  fishing  vessels  specifically  authorized  by  the 
maritime authorities pursuant to powers conferred by law 
may be exempted from the requirements mentioned above 
on equivalent terms provided to Chilean vessels by that 
State. 
 
Access  to  small-scale  fishing  activities  (pesca  artesanal) 
shall be subject to registration in the Registro de Pesca 
Artesanal.  Registration  for  small-scale  fishing  (pesca 
artesanal) is only granted to Chilean natural persons and 
foreign  natural  persons  with  permanent  residency,  or  a 
Chilean juridical person constituted by the aforementioned 
persons. 
 
III-CL-10  
 
Sector  Sports, Industrial Fishing and Hunting, and Recreational 
Services 
 
Classification  CPC 881  Services incidental to agriculture, hunting and 
  forestry  
CPC 882  Services incidental to fishing  
CPC 96499  Other recreational services n.e.c. 
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Ley 17798, Diario Oficial, octubre 21, 1972, Título I 
 
Decreto  Supremo  77  del  Ministerio  de  Defensa,  Diario 
Oficial, agosto 14, 1982 
  
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Any  person  who  owns  guns,  explosives,  or  similar 
substances must register with the appropriate authority in its 
domicile, for which purpose a request shall be submitted to 
the Dirección General de Movilización Nacional del Ministerio 
de Defensa. 
 
Any natural or juridical person registered as an importer of 
fireworks  may  request  authorization  for  importation  and 
entrance thereof into Chile from Group No. 3 of the Dirección 
General de Movilización Nacional and may keep stocks of 
said elements for sale to persons holding authorisation to 
stage pyrotechnical shows. 
 
The  Supervisory  Authority  (Autoridad  Fiscalizadora)  shall 
only authorise pyrotechnical shows if a report is available 
with  regard  to  the  installation,  development,  and  security 
measures for the show, which must be signed and approved 
by  a  fireworks  programmer  registered  in  the  national 
registries of the Dirección General de Movilización Nacional 
or by a professional certified by said Dirección General. 
 
For the production and execution of pyrotechnical shows, the 
presence of at least a fireworks expert handler registered 
with the Dirección General shall be required. 
 
III-CL-11  
 
Sector  Specialised Services 
Customs  Agents  (Agentes  de  Aduana)  and  Brokers 
(Despachadores de Aduana) 
 
Classification  CPC 748  Freight transport agency services  
  CPC 749  Other supporting and auxiliary transport 
services  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Decreto con Fuerza de Ley 30 del Ministerio de Hacienda, 
Diario Oficial, abril 13, 1983, Libro IV  
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Only Chilean natural persons may act as customs brokers 
(Despachadores  de  Aduana)  or  agents  (Agentes  de 
Aduana). 
 
III-CL-12  
 
Sector  Specialised Services 
Private Armed Security Guards 
 
Classification  CPC 873  Investigation and security services  
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Decreto  1.773  del  Ministerio  del  Interior,  Diario  Oficial, 
noviembre 14, 1994 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Only  Chilean  nationals  may  provide  services  as  private 
armed security guards. 
 
III-CL-13  
 
Sector   Business Services 
  Research Services 
 
Classification  CPC 851  Research  and  experimental  development 
  services on natural sciences and engineering 
CPC 853  Interdisciplinary  research  and  experimental 
development services 
CPC 882  Services incidental to fishing 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Decreto  Supremo  711  del  Ministerio  de  Defensa,  Diario 
Oficial, octubre 15, 1975  
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Foreign natural and juridical persons intending to conduct 
research  in  the  Chilean  200-mile  maritime  zone  shall  be 
required to submit a request six months in advance to the 
Instituto  Hidrográfico  de  la  Armada  de  Chile  and  shall 
comply  with  the  requirements  established  in  the 
corresponding regulation. To that end they must submit a 
request at least six months in advance of the date on which 
they intend to begin the research. 
III-CL-14  
 
Sector  Business Services; Research Services 
 
Classification  CPC 851  Research  and  experimental  development 
  services on natural sciences and engineering 
CPC 853  Interdisciplinary  research  and  experimental 
development services  
CPC 8675  Engineering  related  scientific  and  technical 
    consulting services  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Decreto con Fuerza de Ley 11 del Ministerio de Economía, 
Diario Oficial, diciembre 5, 1968 
 
Decreto 559 del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Diario 
Oficial, enero 24, 1968 
 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley 83 del Ministerio de Relaciones 
Exteriores, Diario Oficial, marzo 27, 1979 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Natural  persons  representing  foreign  juridical  persons,  or 
natural  persons  residing  abroad,  intending  to  perform 
explorations for work of a scientific or technical nature, or 
mountain  climbing,  in  areas  that  are  adjacent  to  Chilean 
borders shall apply for the appropriate authorization through 
a Chilean Consul in the country of domicile of the natural 
person.  The Chilean Consul shall then send such request 
directly to the Dirección de Fronteras y Límites del Estado. 
The Dirección may order that one or more Chilean natural 
persons working in the appropriate related activities shall 
join the expedition in order to become acquainted with the 
studies to be undertaken. 
 
The  Departamento  de  Operaciones  de  la  Dirección  de 
Fronteras y Límites del Estado shall decide and announce 
whether  it  authorizes  or  rejects  geographic  or  scientific 
explorations to be carried out by foreign juridical or natural 
persons in Chile.  The Dirección de Fronteras y Límites del 
Estado  shall  authorise  and  will  supervise  all  explorations 
involving work of a scientific or technical nature, or related to 
mountain climbing, that foreign juridical persons or natural 
persons residing abroad intend to carry out in areas adjacent 
to Chilean borders. 
III-CL-15  
 
Sector  Business Services 
Research in Social Sciences 
 
Classification  CPC 86751  Geological,  geophysical  and  other  scientific 
  prospecting services  
 
Obligations Concerned   National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measures  Ley 17288, Diario Oficial, febrero 4, 1970, Título V 
 
Decreto Supremo 484 del Ministerio de Educación, Diario 
Oficial, abril 2, 1991 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Foreign  juridical  or  foreign  natural  persons  intending  to 
perform  excavations,  surveys,  probing,  and/or  collect 
anthropological,  archeological,  or  paleontological  material 
must apply for a permit from the Consejo de Monumentos 
Nacionales.    In  order  to  obtain  the  permit,  the  person  in 
charge of the research must be engaged by a reliable foreign 
scientific institution and must be working in collaboration with 
a  Chilean  state-owned  scientific  institution  or  a  Chilean 
university. 
 
The aforementioned permit can be granted to (1) Chilean 
researchers  having  the  pertinent  scientific  background  in 
archaeology, anthropology, or palaeontology, duly certified 
as appropriate, and also having a research project and due 
institutional  sponsorship;  and  (2)  foreign  researchers, 
provided  that  they  are  engaged  by  a  reliable  scientific 
institution and that they work in collaboration with a Chilean 
governmental  scientific  institution  or  a  Chilean  university.  
Museum Directors or Curators acknowledged by the Consejo 
de  Monumentos  Nacionales,  professional  archaeologists, 
anthropologists, or palaeontologists, as appropriate, and the 
members of the Sociedad Chilena de Arqueología shall be 
authorized  to  perform  salvage-related  works.    Salvage 
involves  the  urgent  recovery  of  data  or  archaeological, 
anthropological,  or  palaeontological  artifacts  or  species 
threatened by imminent loss. 
 
 
III-CL-16  
 
Sector  Printing, Publishing, and Other Related Industries 
 
Classification  CPC 88442  Publishing and printing, on a fee or contract 
  basis 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
 
Measures  Ley  19733,  Diario  Oficial  junio  4,  2001,  Ley  sobre  las 
Libertades  de  Opinión  e  Información  y  Ejercicio  del 
Periodismo, Títulos I y III 
 
Description  Investment and Cross-Border Services  
 
The  owner  of  a  social  communication  medium  such  as 
newspapers, magazines, or regularly published texts whose 
publishing address is located in Chile, or a national news 
agency, shall in the case of a natural person have a duly 
established domicile in Chile and, in the case of a juridical 
person, shall be constituted with domicile in Chile or have an 
agency authorized to operate within the national territory.  
Only Chilean nationals may be president, administrators, or 
legal representatives of the juridical person.  The director 
legally responsible and the person who replaces him or her 
must be Chilean with domicile and residence in Chile. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-CL-17  
 
Sector  Professional, Technical, and Specialised Services 
Professional Services 
 
Classification  CPC 86211  Financial auditing services  
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Ley  18.046,  Diario  Oficial,  octubre  22,  1981,  Ley  de 
Sociedades Anónimas, Título V 
 
Decreto  Supremo  587  del  Ministerio  de  Hacienda,  Diario 
Oficial,  noviembre  13,  1982,  Reglamento  de  Sociedades 
Anónimas 
 
Decreto Ley 1.097, Diario Oficial, julio 25, 1975, Títulos I, II, 
III, y IV 
 
Decreto Ley 3.538, Diario Oficial, diciembre 23, 1980, Títulos 
I, II, III, y IV  
 
Circular 2.714, octubre 6, 1992; Circular 1, enero 17, 1989; 
Capítulo 19 de la Recopilación Actualizada de Normas de la 
Superintendencia  de  Bancos  e  Instituciones  Financieras 
sobre Auditores Externos 
 
Circulares 327, junio 29, 1983, y 350, octubre 21, 1983, de la 
Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
External auditors of financial institutions must be registered in 
the  Registry  of  External  Auditors  kept  by  the 
Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras and 
the  Superintendencia  de  Valores  y  Seguros.    Only  firms 
legally incorporated in Chile as partnerships (sociedades de 
personas) or associations (asociaciones) and whose main 
line of business is auditing services may be inscribed in the 
Registry. 
 
 
III-CL-18  
 
Sector  Professional Services 
Legal Services 
 
Classification  CPC 861   Legal services  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
 
Measures  Código Orgánico de Tribunales, Título XV 
 
Decreto 110 del Ministerio de Justicia, Diario Oficial, marzo 
20, 1979 
 
Ley 18.120, Diario Oficial, mayo 18, 1982 
 
Convenio sobre Mutuo Reconocimiento de Exámenes y de 
Títulos Profesionales entre Chile y Ecuador, Diario Oficial, 
julio 16, 1937 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Only Chilean natural persons shall be authorised to practice 
as lawyers (abogados). 
 
Only lawyers (abogados) duly qualified to practice law shall 
be authorised to plead a case in Chilean courts and to file the 
first  legal  action  or  claim  of  each  party.    The  following 
documents,  among  others,  shall  be  drawn  up  solely  by 
lawyers (abogados):  drafting of articles of incorporation and 
amendments  thereto;  mutual  termination  of  obligations  or 
liquidation of corporations; liquidation of community property 
between  spouses  (sociedad  conyugal);  distribution  of 
property;  articles  of  incorporation  of  juridical  persons, 
associations,  water  canal  members  (asociaciones  de 
canalistas),  and  cooperatives  associations  (cooperativas); 
agreements governing financial transactions; corporate bond 
issuance agreements; and sponsoring applications for legal 
representation made by corporations and foundations. 
 
Chile  has  a  bilateral  agreement  with  Ecuador,  whereby 
Ecuadorian citizens holding a lawyers degree granted by a 
University in Ecuador are admitted to practice as lawyers 
(abogado) in Chile. 
 
 
III-CL-19  
None of these measures apply to foreign legal consultants 
who practice in areas or advise on matters not covered 
above,  including  the  law  of  any  country  in  which  that 
consultant is authorised to practice as a lawyer.   
 
III-CL-20  
 
Sector  Professional, Technical, and Specialised Services 
Auxiliary Services in the Administration of Justice 
 
Classification  CPC 861  Legal services  
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Código Orgánico de Tribunales, Títulos XI y XII 
 
Reglamento del Registro del Conservador de Bienes Raíces, 
Títulos I, II, y III 
 
Ley 18.118, Diario Oficial 22 de mayo, 1982, Título I 
 
Decreto 197 del Ministerio de Economía, Diario Oficial 8 de 
agosto, 1985 
 
Ley 18.175, Diario Oficial 28 de octubre, 1982, Título III 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Justice  ancillaries  (auxiliares  de  justicia)  must  have  their 
residence in the same city or place where the courthouse for 
which they render services is domiciled. 
 
Public  defenders  (defensores  públicos),  public  notaries 
(notarios públicos), and custodians (conservadores) shall be 
Chilean  natural  persons  and  fulfil  the  same  requirements 
needed to become a judge. 
 
Archivists  (archiveros)  and  arbitrators  at  law  (arbitros  de 
derecho) must be lawyers and, therefore, must be Chilean 
natural  persons.    Brunei  Darussalam,  New  Zealand  or 
Singapore  lawyers  may  assist  in  arbitration  when  dealing 
with Brunei Darussalam, New Zealand or Singapore law and 
the private parties request it. 
 
Only  Chilean  natural  persons  with  the  right  to  vote,  and 
foreign natural persons with permanent residence and the 
right  to  vote,  can  act  as  process  servers  (receptores 
judiciales)  and  superior  court  attorneys  (procuradores  del 
número). 
 
 
III-CL-21  
Only Chilean natural persons, foreign natural persons with 
permanent residence in Chile, or Chilean juridical persons 
may be auctioneers (martilleros públicos). 
 
Receivers in bankruptcy (síndicos de quiebra) must have a 
professional or technical degree granted by a university or a 
professional  or  technical  institute  recognised  by  Chile.  
Receivers in bankruptcy must have at least three years of 
experience in the commercial, economic, or juridical field. 
 
III-CL-22  
 
Sector  Transportation  
Air Transportation 
 
Classification  CPC 734  Rental services of aircraft with operator 
  CPC 7469  Other supporting services for air transport 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Ley  18.916,  Diario  Oficial,  febrero  8,  1990,  Código 
Aeronáutico, Títulos preliminar, II y III  
 
Decreto Ley 2.564, Diario Oficial, junio 22, 1979, Normas 
sobre Aviación Comercial 
 
Decreto  Supremo  624  del  Ministerio  de  Defensa,  Diario 
Oficial, enero 5, 1995 
 
Ley 16.752, Diario Oficial, febrero 17, 1968, Título II 
 
Decreto 34 del Ministerio de Defensa, Diario Oficial, febrero 
10, 1968 
 
Decreto  Supremo  102  del  Ministerio  de  Transportes  y 
Telecomunicaciones, Diario Oficial, junio 17, 1981 
 
Decreto  supremo  172  del  Ministerio  de  Defensa,  Diario 
Oficial, marzo 5, 1974 
 
Decreto  Supremo  37  del  Ministerio  de  Defensa,  Diario 
Oficial, diciembre 10, 1991 
 
Decreto 234 del Ministerio de Defensa, Diario Oficial, junio 
19, 1971 
 
Description  Investment and Cross-Border Services 
 
Only a Chilean natural or juridical person may register an 
aircraft in Chile.  A juridical person must be constituted in 
Chile with principal domicile and real effective seat in Chile.  
In addition, a majority of its ownership must be held by 
Chilean  natural  or  juridical  persons,  which  in  turn  must 
comply with the aforementioned requisites. 
 
III-CL-23  
The  president,  manager,  majority  of  directors,  and/or 
administrators  of  the  juridical  person  must  be  Chilean 
natural persons. 
       
A  foreign  registered  private  aircraft  engaged  in  non-
commercial activities may not remain in Chile more than 30 
days from its date of entry into Chile, unless authorized by 
the Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil.  For greater 
certainty,  this  measure  shall  not  apply  to  specialty  air 
services as defined in Article 12.1 (Definitions), except for 
glider towing and parachute jumping. 
 
In order to work as crew members on aircraft used by a 
Chilean aviation company, foreign aviation staff shall be 
required  first  to  obtain  a  Chilean  license  with  the 
appropriate  permits  enabling  them  to  discharge  the 
pertinent duties. 
 
Foreign aviation personnel shall be allowed to work in that 
capacity  in  Chile  provided  that  Chilean  civil  aviation 
authorities validate the license or authorization granted by a 
foreign  country.  In  the  absence  of  an  international 
agreement  regulating  such  validation,  the  license  or 
authorization  shall  be  granted  under  conditions  of 
reciprocity.  In that case, proof shall be submitted showing 
that the licenses or authorizations were issued or validated 
by the pertinent authorities in the State where the aircraft is 
registered, that the documents are in force, and that the 
requirements  for  issuing  or  validating  such  licenses  and 
authorizations meet or exceed the standards required in 
Chile for analogous cases. 
 
Air transportation services may be provided by Chilean or 
foreign companies subject to the condition that, along the 
routes in which they operate, foreigners grant similar rights 
to Chilean aviation companies when so requested.  The 
Junta  Aeronáutica  Civil,  by  means  of  a  substantiated 
resolution (resolución fundada), may terminate, suspend, or 
limit domestic traffic services (cabotage) or any other class 
of  commercial  aviation  services  carried  out  solely  in 
Chilean territory by foreign companies or aircraft if in their 
country of origin the right to equal treatment for Chilean 
companies and aircraft is denied. 
 
Foreign civil aircraft not engaging in commercial transport 
activities  or  non-scheduled  commercial  air  transport 
III-CL-24  
intending to enter Chilean territory, including its territorial 
waters, to fly over Chile, and to make stop-overs for non-
commercial  purposes,  shall  be  required  to  notify  the 
Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil at least twenty-four 
hours in advance.  Commercial traffic aircraft not operating 
on a regular basis shall not be allowed to carry passengers, 
cargo, or mail in Chilean territory without prior authorization 
by the Junta de Aeronáutica Civil. 
III-CL-25  
 
Sector  Transportation  
Shipping 
 
Classification  CPC 721  Transport services by sea-going vessels  
  CPC 722  Transport services by non-sea-going vessels 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
  Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Decreto Ley 3.059, Diario Oficial, diciembre 22, 1979, Ley 
de Fomento a la Marina Mercante, Títulos I y II 
 
  Decreto  Supremo  24,  Diario  Oficial,  marzo  10,  1986, 
Reglamento del Decreto Ley 3.059, Títulos I y II 
 
  Decreto Ley 2.222, Diario Oficial, mayo 31, 1978, Ley de 
Navegación, Títulos I, II, III, IV, y V 
 
  Decreto  Supremo  153,  Diario  Oficial,  marzo  11,  1966, 
Aprueba el Reglamento General de Matrícula del Personal 
de Gente de Mar, Fluvial y Lacustre 
 
  Código de Comercio, Libro III, Títulos I, IV, y V 
 
  Ley  19.420,  Diario  Oficial,  octubre  23,  1995,  Establece 
incentivos para el desarrollo económico de las provincias de 
Arica y Parinacota y modifica cuerpos legales que indica, 
Título Disposiciones varias 
 
Description  Investment and Cross-Border Services  
 
Only a Chilean natural or juridical person may register a 
vessel in Chile.  A juridical person must be constituted with 
principal domicile and real and effective seat in Chile.  Its 
president,  manager,  and  majority  of  the  directors  or 
administrators  must  be  Chilean  natural  persons.    In 
addition, more than 50 percent of its capital must be held by 
Chilean natural or juridical persons.  For these purposes, a 
juridical  person  with  ownership  participation  in  another 
juridical person that owns a vessel has to comply with all 
the aforementioned requisites.  
 
 
A joint ownership (comunidad) may register a vessel if (1) 
III-CL-26  
the majority of the joint ownership is Chilean with domicile 
and residency in Chile; (2) the administrators are Chileans; 
and  (3)  the  majority  of  the  rights  of  the  joint  ownership 
belong to a Chilean natural or juridical person.  For these 
purposes, a juridical person with ownership participation in 
a joint ownership (comunidad) that owns a vessel has to 
comply  with  all  the  aforementioned  requisites  to  be 
considered Chilean.  
 
Special  vessels  owned  by  foreign  natural  or  juridical 
persons domiciled in Chile may under certain conditions be 
registered in the country.  For these purposes, a special 
vessel does not include a fishing vessel.  Foreign natural or 
juridical persons must meet the following conditions:  (1) 
domicile in Chile; (2) principal head office in the country; or 
(3)  undertaking  a  profession  or  commercial  activity  in  a 
permanent way in Chile.  The maritime authority may, for 
reasons  of  national  security,  impose  certain  special 
restrictions on the operation of these vessels.  
 
The maritime authority may provide better treatment based 
on the principle of reciprocity. 
 
Foreign  vessels  shall  be  required  to  use  pilotage, 
anchoring, and harbor pilotage services when the maritime 
authorities  so  require  it.  In  tugging  activities  or  other 
manoeuvres  performed  in  Chilean  ports,  only  tugboats 
flying the Chilean flag shall be used. 
 
Captains shall be required to be Chilean nationals and to be 
acknowledged as such by the pertinent authorities.  Officers 
on  Chilean  vessels  must  be  Chilean  natural  persons 
registered in the Officers’ Registry (Registro de oficiales).  
Crewmembers of a Chilean vessel must be Chilean, have 
the  permit  granted  by  the  Maritime  Authority,  and  be 
registered in the respective Registry.  Professional titles and 
licenses granted by a foreign country shall be considered 
valid for the discharge of officers' duties on national vessels 
pursuant to a substantiated resolution (resolución fundada) 
issued by the Director.  
 
Ship captains (patrón de nave) shall be Chilean nationals.  
The ship captain is the natural person who, pursuant to the 
corresponding title awarded by the Director, is empowered 
to exercise command on smaller vessels and on certain 
special larger vessels. 
III-CL-27  
 
Only Chilean nationals, or foreigners with domicile in Chile, 
shall be authorized to act as fishing boat captains (patrones 
de  Pesca),  machinists  (mecánicos-motoristas),  machine 
operators  (motoristas),  sea-faring  fishermen  (marineros 
pescadores), small-scale fishermen (pescadores), industrial 
or  maritime  trade  technical  employees  or  workers,  and 
industrial  and  general  ship  service  crews  on  fishing 
factories  or  fishing  boats  when  so  requested  by  ship 
operators (armadores) in order to initiate such work. 
 
In order to fly the national flag, the ship captain (patrón de 
nave),  its  officers,  and  crew  must  be  Chilean  nationals.  
Nevertheless, the Dirección General del Territorio Marítimo 
y  de  Marina  Mercante,  on  the  basis  of  a  substantiated 
resolution (resolución fundada), may authorize the hiring of 
foreign personnel, on a temporary basis if essential, with 
the exception of the captain, who, at all times, must be a 
Chilean national. 
 
Only  a  Chilean  natural  or  juridical  person  shall  be 
authorised to work in Chile as a multimodal operator. 
 
Cabotage shall be reserved for Chilean vessels.  Cabotage 
shall include the ocean, river, or lake shipping of passengers 
and cargo between different points of the national territory 
and  between  such  points  and  naval  artifacts  installed  in 
territorial waters or in the exclusive economic zone. 
 
Foreign  merchant  vessels  may  be  able  to  participate  in 
cabotage when cargo volumes exceed 900 tons, following a 
public tender called by the user with due anticipation.  When 
the cargo volumes involved are equal to or less than 900 
tons, and no vessels flying the Chilean flag are available, the 
Maritime Authority shall authorize embarking such cargo on 
foreign merchant vessels.  The reservation of coastal trade 
to  Chilean  vessels  shall  not  apply  in  the  event  of  cargo 
coming from or destined for ports located in the Province of 
Arica. 
  
In  the  event  that  Chile  should  adopt,  for  reasons  of 
reciprocity,  a  cargo  reservation  measure  applicable  to 
international cargo transportation between Chile and a non-
Party, the reserved cargo shall be transported in Chilean-
flag vessels or in vessels considered as such. 
 
III-CL-28  
 
Sector  Transportation 
Shipping 
Classification  CPC 721  Transport services by sea-going vessels 
  CPC 722  Transport services by non-sea-going vessels  
 
Obligations  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Código de Comercio, Libro III, Títulos I, IV y V 
 
  Decreto Ley 2.222, Diario Oficial, mayo 31, 1978, Ley de 
Navegación, Títulos I, II, y IV 
 
Decreto  90 del Ministerio del Trabajo y Seguridad Social, 
Diario Oficial, enero 21, 2000    
 
Decreto  49  del  Ministerio  del  Trabajo  y  Seguridad  Social, 
Diario Oficial, julio 16, 1999 
 
Código del Trabajo, Libro I, Título II, Capítulo III, párrafo 2º 
 
 
Description  Investment and Cross-Border Services  
 
Shipping  agents  or  representatives  of  ship  operators, 
owners,  or  captains,  whether  they  are  natural  or  juridical 
persons, shall be required to be Chilean nationals.  
 
Work of stowage and dockage performed by natural persons 
is  reserved  to  Chileans  who  are  duly  accredited  by  the 
corresponding authority to carry out such work and have an 
office established in Chile.   
 
Whenever  these  activities  are  carried  out  by  juridical 
persons, they must be legally constituted in the country and 
have  their  principal  domicile  in  Chile.    The  chairman, 
administrators, managers, or directors must be Chilean.  At 
least 50 percent of the corporate capital must be held by 
Chilean natural or juridical persons.  Such enterprises shall 
designate one or more empowered agents, who will act in 
their representation and who shall be Chilean nationals. 
 
 
Harbour  workers  shall  pass  a  basic  course  on  harbour 
security in a Organismo Técnico de Ejecución authorized by 
III-CL-29  
the National Service of Training and Employment, according 
to the norms established in the respective regulation. 
 
Anyone  unloading,  transshipping,  and,  generally,  using 
continental or insular Chilean ports, particularly for landing 
fish catches or processing fish catches on board, shall also 
be required to be a Chilean natural or juridical person. 
 
 
 
III-CL-30  
 
Sector  Transportation 
Land Transportation 
 
Classification  CPC 712  Other land transport services  
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measures  Decreto  Supremo  212  del  Ministerio  de  Transportes  y 
Telecomunicaciones, Diario Oficial, noviembre 21, 1992 
 
  Decreto  163  del  Ministerio  de  Transportes  y 
Telecomunicaciones, Diario Oficial, enero 4, 1985 
 
  Decreto  Supremo  257  del  Ministerio  de  Relaciones 
Exteriores, Diario Oficial, octubre 17, 1991 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
  Land transportation service providers shall register in the 
National  Registry  by  submitting  an  application  to  the 
Regional  Secretary  of  Transportation  and 
Telecommunications.    In  the  case  of  urban  services, 
applicants  shall  submit  the  application  to  the  Regional 
Secretary responsible for the area in which the service is to 
be provided and, in the case of rural and interurban services, 
in  the  region  where  the  applicant  is  domiciled.    The 
application shall provide the detailed information required by 
law, attaching thereto, among other documents, a properly 
certified photocopy of the National Identity Card and, in the 
case of juridical persons, the public instruments accrediting 
its  constitution,  name,  and  domicile  of  its  legal 
representative  and  documents  evidencing  such  capacity.  
Foreign  natural  and  juridical  persons  qualified  to  provide 
international  transportation  services  in  Chilean  territory 
cannot provide local transportation services or participate in 
any  manner  whatsoever  in  said  activities  in  the  national 
territory. 
 
  Only companies with actual and effective domicile in Chile 
and organized under the laws of Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, 
Brazil, Peru, Uruguay, or Paraguay shall be authorized to 
provide  international  land  transportation  services  between 
Chile  and  Argentina,  Bolivia,  Brazil,  Peru,  Uruguay,  and 
III-CL-31  
Paraguay.    Furthermore,  to  obtain  an  international  land 
transport  permit,  in  the  case  of  foreign  juridical  persons, 
more than 50 percent of its corporate capital and effective 
control shall be held by nationals of Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, 
Brazil, Peru, Uruguay, or Paraguay. 
 
III-CL-32  
 
Sector  Transportation 
Land Transportation 
 
Classification  CPC 712  Other land transport services  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
 
Measures  Ley 18290, Diario Oficial, febrero 7, 1984, Título IV 
 
  Decreto  Supremo  485  del  Ministerio  de  Relaciones 
Exteriores, Diario Oficial, septiembre 7, 1960, Convención 
de Ginebra 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
  Motor vehicles bearing foreign license plates that enter the 
country on a temporary basis, pursuant to provisions set 
forth in the 1949 Geneva Convention on Road Traffic, shall 
circulate freely throughout the national territory for the period 
established  therein,  provided  that  they  comply  with  the 
requirements established by Chilean law. 
 
  Holders of valid international driving licenses or certificates 
issued  in  a  foreign  country  in  accordance  with  the  1949 
Geneva Convention on Road Traffic may drive anywhere 
within the national territory.  The driver of a vehicle bearing 
foreign  license  plates  who  holds  an  international  driver’s 
license shall present, upon request by the authorities, the 
documents certifying both the roadworthiness of the vehicle 
and the use and validity of his or her personal documents. 
 
 
 
 
 
III-CL-33  
Schedule of New Zealand 
 
 
 
Sector  All Sectors  
Industry Classification 
  
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Measure  Companies Act 1993      
Financial Reporting Act 1993 
 
Description  Investment 
 
Overseas  companies  are  required  to  prepare  audited 
financial statements on an annual basis.  Legislation also 
requires  financial  statements  in  relation  to  an  overseas 
company’s  New  Zealand  business.  The  following 
companies are required to deliver annual audited financial 
statements to the Registrar of Companies for registration: 
 
a)  issuers – ie those which have raised capital from the 
New Zealand public; 
b)  overseas companies; 
c)  subsidiaries of companies or bodies corporate 
incorporated outside New Zealand; or 
d)  companies in which 25 percent or more of the shares 
are held or controlled by: 
          (i)  a subsidiary of a company or body corporate 
incorporated  outside  New Zealand  or  a 
subsidiary of that subsidiary; 
(ii)  a  company  or  body  corporate  incorporated 
outside New Zealand; 
(iii)  a person not ordinarily resident in New Zealand.
 
III-NZ-1  
 
Sector   All Sectors  
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Measure  Overseas Investment Act 1973 
Fisheries Act 1996 
Overseas Investment Regulations 1996 
Description  Investment 
 
Consistent  with  New  Zealand’s  overseas 
investment  regime  as  set  out  in  the  relevant 
provisions  of  the  Overseas  Investment  Act  1973, 
the Fisheries Act 1996, the Overseas Investment 
Regulations  1996  (and  proposed  successor 
legislation)  the  following  investment  activities 
require  prior  approval  from  the  New  Zealand 
Government: 
 
(a)  acquisition or control of 25 per cent or more 
of any class of shares or voting power in a 
New  Zealand  entity  where  either  the 
consideration for the transfer or the value of 
the assets exceeds NZ$50 million;*  
(b)  commencement of business operations or 
acquisition  of  an  existing  business, 
including business assets, in New Zealand, 
where the total expenditures to be incurred 
in setting up or acquiring that business or 
those assets exceed NZ$50 million;* 
(c)  acquisition or control, regardless of dollar 
value, of certain categories of land that are 
regarded  as  sensitive  or  require  specific 
approval  according  to  New  Zealand’s 
Overseas  Investment  legislation,  and 
acquisition  of  any  land  wherever  located 
worth more than NZ$10 million;** and 
(d)  acquisition, regardless of the dollar value, 
of  25  per  cent  or  more  of  any  class  of 
shares or voting power in a New Zealand 
entity that owns commercial fishing quota 
or  annual  catch  entitlement,  or  the 
acquisition of commercial fishing quota or 
III-NZ-2  
annual catch entitlement. 
Overseas investors must comply with the criteria set 
out  in  the  overseas  investment  regime  for  the 
establishment,  acquisition,  expansion, 
management,  conduct  and  operation  of  an 
investment  in  New  Zealand  and  any  conditions 
specified by the Overseas Investment Commission 
and the responsible Minister of the Crown. 
*  Proposed New Zealand legislation is being 
considered that would raise the NZ$50 million 
threshold to NZ$100 million.  
 
** Proposed New Zealand legislation is being 
considered that would eliminate the NZ$10 million 
threshold. 
 
III-NZ-3  
 
Sector   Business services 
Industry Classification  Services relating to patents 
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Market Access (Article 12.6) 
 
Measure  S.100(2)(a) of the Patents Act 1953 
 
Description  Cross Border Services and Investment 
 
Registration of patent attorneys who have 
qualified elsewhere than in New Zealand is 
restricted to those who satisfy the criteria 
set  out  in  S.100(2)(a)  of  the  Patents  Act 
1953,  being  any  person  who  is  a  British 
subject  or  a  citizen  of  the  Republic  of 
Ireland. 
 
 
 
III-NZ-4  
 
Sector   Business services  
Services incidental to dairy and beef cattle 
farming 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 8812  Services  incidental  to  animal 
husbandry 
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Measure  The Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001 
Description  Cross Border Services and Investment 
 
The Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001 
(DIRA) and regulations provide for the New 
Zealand  government  to  acquire,  free  of 
charge, and without condition, a copy of a 
regulated database held by the Livestock 
Improvement Corporation Ltd (LIC) in the 
event of its demutualisation or certain other 
events.   
 
In  addition,  the  DIRA  sets  out  data 
reporting obligations to the LIC applying to 
those  engaged  in  herd  testing  of  dairy 
cattle herds.  The DIRA also provides for 
conditions for access to that data held by 
LIC. 
 
Pursuant to the DIRA, rules for access to 
the  regulated  database  provide  that 
applications  for  access  to  data  may  be 
refused unless they are in the interests of 
the New Zealand dairy industry. 
 
Investment  restrictions  also  apply  in  the 
case  of  the  LIC,  which  requires  the 
approval  of  the  responsible  Minister  if  it 
wishes  to  relax  the  current  statutory 
restriction  requiring  shareholders  to  be 
dairy  farmers  who  buy  services  from  the 
LIC. 
 
III-NZ-5  
 
Sector   Communication Services  
Postal 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 7511   Postal services 
Obligations concerned   National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation (Article 12.5) 
Market Access (Article 12.6) 
 
Measure  The Postal Services Act 1998 
 
Description  Cross Border Services and Investment 
 
The  Postal  Services  Act  1998  reserves  the 
Universal  Postal  Union  designation  for  a  New 
Zealand operator. 
 
The  issue  of  stamps  bearing  the  words  “New 
Zealand”  is  restricted  under  the  Act  to  Universal 
Postal  Union  designated  operators,  except  where 
these words form part of the name of the operator 
issuing the stamps. 
 
III-NZ-6  
 
Sector   Communication Services  
Telecommunications 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 7521    Public telephone services 
CPC 7522  Business network services 
CPC 7523   Data & message transmission 
 services 
CPC 7525  Interconnection services 
CPC 7529  Other telecommunications services 
 
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Market Access (Article 12.6) 
 
Measure  The Constitution of the Telecom Corporation of 
  New Zealand. 
 
Description  Investment 
 
The Constitution of the Telecom Corporation of 
New Zealand  Limited  requires  New  Zealand 
government approval for the shareholding of any 
single overseas entity to exceed 49.9 percent.   
 
At least half of Board directors are required to be 
New Zealand citizens.   
 
III-NZ-7  
 
Sector   Communication Services  
Audio-visual Services 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 96131  Radio services 
CPC 96133  Combined programme making  
  and broadcasting services 
 
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Market Access (Article 12.6) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Radiocommunications Act 1989 
 
Description  Cross Border Services and Investment 
 
The  acquisition  of  licences  or  management 
rights to use the radio frequency spectrum, or 
any  interest  in  such  licences  or  management 
rights, under the Radiocommunications Act 1989 
by foreign governments or agents on behalf of 
foreign  government  is  subject  to  the  written 
approval of the Chief Executive of the Ministry of 
Economic Development. 
III-NZ-8  
 
 
Sector   Distribution Services 
Commission agents’ services  
Wholesale trade services 
 
 
Industry Classification **  CPC 62111 commission  agents’  services  for 
  agricultural  raw  materials  and  live 
  animals   
  CPC 62112 commission  agents’  services  for 
  food  products,  beverages  and 
  tobacco 
  CPC 62116 commission  agents’  services  for 
  textiles, clothing and footwear 
  CPC 62118 commission  agents’  services  for 
  goods not elsewhere classified 
  CPC 6221   wholesale  trade  services  for 
  agricultural  raw  materials  and  live 
  animals,  excluding  62213  for 
  services related to unmanufactured 
  tobacco 
  CPC 62221 wholesale  trade  services  for  fruit 
  and vegetables 
  CPC 62223  wholesale trade services for meat, 
  poultry and game 
  CPC 62226 wholesale  trade  services  for 
  beverages 
  CPC 62229 wholesale  trade  services  for  food 
**  This reservation only applies  products not elsewhere classified 
to  products  derived  from  the   CPC 62231 wholesale trade services for textiles 
activities and goods listed in the  CPC 62234 wholesale  trade  services  for  fur 
description. 
articles 
 
Obligations concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Market Access (Article 12.6) 
 
Measure  The Primary Products Marketing Act 1953 
Description  Cross Border Services and Investment 
 
The  Primary  Products  Marketing  Act  1953 
provides  for  the  establishment  of  statutory 
marketing organisations with monopoly or lesser 
powers over the exporting of products derived 
III-NZ-9  
from  beekeeping;  fruit  growing;  hop  growing; 
deer farming or game deer; or of goats, being 
the fur bristles or fibres grown by the goat. 
 
 
III-NZ-10  
Schedule of Singapore 
Sector  All 
 
Industry   
classification 
 
Obligations Concerned  Market Access (Article 12.6) 
   
Measure  Insurance Act, Cap. 142, MAS Notice 149 
  Banking Act, Cap. 19, MAS Notice 757 
  Finance Companies Act, Cap. 108, MAS Notice 816 
Monetary Authority of Singapore Act, Cap. 186, MAS Notice 
1105 
Securities  Industry  Act,  Act  15  of  1986,  MAS  Notice  1201/ 
Securities and Futures Act 2001, Cap 289 Section 101, SFA 
04-N04 
 
Description  Investment 
   
  Financial  institutions  extending  Singapore  dollar  (S$)  credit 
facilities  exceeding  S$5  million  per  entity  to  non-resident 
financial entities or arranging S$ equity or bond issues for non-
residents, shall ensure that where the S$ proceeds are to be 
used outside Singapore, they are swapped or converted into 
foreign currency upon draw-down or before remittance abroad. 
 
Financial institutions shall not extend S$ credit facilities to non-
resident financial entities if there is reason to believe that the 
S$ proceeds may be used for S$ currency speculation. 
 
The  term  “non-resident”  is  as  defined  in  MAS  Notice  757 
issued under the Banking Act.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-1  
 
Sector  All 
 
Industry   
Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4)  
 
Measure  Administrative  
   
Investment 
Description   
  The  aggregate  of  foreign  shareholdings  in  PSA 
Corporation  and/or  its  successor  body  shall  be 
subject to a 49 percent limit. 
 
The “aggregate of foreign shareholdings” is defined 
as the total number of shares owned by:  
 
(i)  any  individual  who  is  not  a  Singapore 
citizen;  
(ii)  any  corporation  which  is  not  more  than 
50 percent owned by Singapore citizens or by 
the Singapore Government; and/or 
(iii) any other enterprise which is not owned or 
controlled by the Singapore Government. 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-2  
 
Sector  All  
 
Industry   
Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4)  
   
Measure  Administrative  
   
Description  Investment 
   
All  individual  investors,  apart  from  the  Singapore 
government, shall be subject to the following equity 
ownership  limits  in  the  enterprises,  and/or  their 
successor bodies, as listed below: 
 
Singapore Technologies Engineering – 15 percent  
 
PSA Corporation – 5 percent  
 
Singapore Airlines – 5 percent 
 
Singapore Power, SP PowerAssets, SP Services, 
Power Gas – 10 percent. 
 
For the purposes of this reservation, ownership of 
equity  by  an  investor  in  these  enterprises  and/or 
their  successor  bodies  includes  both  direct  and 
indirect ownership of equity.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-3  
 
Sector  All  
 
Industry Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure  Business Registration Act, Cap. 32, 2001 Revised 
Edition 
Business Registration Regulations, Regulation 9  
Companies Act, Cap. 50, 1994 Revised Edition  
 
Description  Cross-border services and Investment 
 
Only a service supplier who is a Singapore citizen, 
Singapore  permanent  resident  or  Singapore 
Employment Pass holder shall be allowed to register 
a business without appointing a local manager.  
 
A  local  manager  shall  be  a  Singapore  citizen, 
Singapore  permanent  resident  or  Singapore 
Employment Pass holder.  
 
All locally incorporated companies shall comply with 
the following requirements:  
 
(i)  at  least  1  director  of  the  company  shall  be 
resident in Singapore; and 
(ii)  all branches of foreign companies registered 
in Singapore shall have at least 2 agents 
resident in Singapore.   
To be resident in Singapore, a person shall be either 
a Singapore citizen or Singapore permanent resident 
or Singapore Employment Pass holder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-4  
 
 
 
Sector  All  
 
Industry Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure  State Lands Act, Cap 314, Sections 3 and 19(1) 
 
Description  Investment 
 
Singapore  may  divest  State  Land  in  a  manner 
inconsistent with National Treatment 
 
 
III-SG-5  
 
Sector  Business Services  
Architectural Services 
Architectural  services  includes  selling  or  supplying 
for gain or reward any architectural plan, drawing, 
tracing  or  the  like  for  use  in  the  construction, 
enlargement  or  alteration  of  any  building  or  part 
thereof. It includes the certification and inspection of 
buildings for compliance with fire safety regulations. 
 
Industry Classification     
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Architects Act, Cap.12, 2000 Revised Edition 
 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only persons who are registered with the Board of 
Architects  (BOA)  and/or  its  successor  body  and 
resident  in  Singapore  are  allowed  to  provide 
architectural services. 
 
All  corporations  and  partnerships  (including  those 
which are providing architectural services as part of 
a multi-disciplinary corporation or practice) providing 
architectural services shall obtain a licence from the 
BOA. To qualify for the licence, the corporation or 
partnership shall: 
 
(i) be  under  the  control  and  management  of  a 
director or partner who is a Singapore-registered 
architect; where a multi-disciplinary corporation 
or partnership is concerned, the business of the 
corporation  or  partnership  relating  to 
architectural services shall be under the control 
and management of a director or partner who is 
a Singapore-registered architect; and 
 
(ii) where  limited  corporations  are  concerned,  the 
Chairman  and  at  least  51  percent  of  the 
directors  of  a  corporation  shall  be  Singapore-
registered  architects  or  allied  professionals; 
where unlimited corporations are concerned, the 
III-SG-6  
directors  or  members  shall  be  registered 
professional  engineers  or  allied  professionals; 
where partnerships are concerned, the beneficial 
interest in the capital assets and profits of the 
partnership  shall  be  held  by  Singapore-
registered architects or allied professionals. 
 
Allied professionals are Singapore-registered land 
surveyors and engineers. 
 
III-SG-7  
 
Sector  Business Services  
Financial Auditing services 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 86211   Financial auditing services  
   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  The Accountants Act 2004, Sections 10(1), 17(3)(d) 
  and  18(3)(c)  Accounts  (Public  Accountants)  Rules 
2004, Second Schedule, Paragraph 7 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only  service  suppliers  who  are  registered  with  the 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Singapore 
(ICPAS)  and  the  Accounting  and  Corporate 
Regulatory  Authority  and/or  their  successor  bodies 
shall  be  registered  as  public  accountants  and 
appointed as company auditor.  The business of the 
firm and accounting corporation, so far as it related to 
the  supply  of  public  accountancy  services  in 
Singapore,  shall  be  under  the  control  and 
management  of  a  public  accountant  ordinarily 
resident in Singapore. 
 
At  least  one  of  the  partners  of  the  firm  shall  be 
effectively resident in Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-8  
 
Sector  Business Services  
Other tax-related services  
 
Industry  CPC 86309    Other tax-related services  
Classification   
   
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Administrative 
   
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Public  accountants  shall  be  effectively  resident  in 
Singapore or at least one of the partners of the firm 
shall  be  effectively  resident  in  Singapore.    Only 
public  accountants  registered  with  the  Public 
Accountants Board (PAB) and/or its successor body 
shall practise as tax consultants for local tax laws.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-9  
 
Sector   Business Services 
  Land Surveying Services  
 
Industry Classification    
 
Obligations Concerned   National Treatment  (Article 12.4) 
  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Land  Surveyors  Act,  Cap.  156,  1992  Revised 
  Edition, Sections 12-16 and 22-28 
Land Surveyors Rules, Rules 2-20 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Land surveying refers to the survey of land as set 
out in the Land Surveyors Act, Cap 156.  
 
All  persons  seeking  to  provide  land  surveying 
services in Singapore are required to register with 
the  Land  Surveyors  Board  (LSB)  and/or  its 
successor body, be resident in Singapore and have 
had practical experience in surveying in Singapore.  
 
All  corporations  and  partnerships  (including  those 
which are providing land surveying services as part 
of  a  multi-disciplinary  corporation  or  practice) 
seeking  to  provide  land  surveying  services  shall 
obtain a licence from the LSB.  To qualify for the 
licence, the corporation or partnership shall:  
 
(i)  be under the control and management of a 
director  or  partner  who  is  a  Singapore-
registered  surveyor  resident  in  Singapore; 
where  a  multi-disciplinary  corporation  or 
partnership is concerned, the business of the 
corporation  or  partnership  relating  to  land 
surveying services shall be under the control 
and management of a director or partner who 
is a Singapore-registered surveyor resident in 
Singapore; and 
 
(ii)  where limited corporations are concerned, all 
its  directors  shall  be  Singapore-registered 
surveyors or allied professionals and not less 
than 51 percent of each class of shares shall 
III-SG-10  
be beneficially owned by and registered in the 
names  of  registered  surveyors  and/or  allied 
professionals;  where  unlimited  corporations 
are concerned, the directors or members shall 
be registered professional engineers or allied 
professionals;  where  partnerships  are 
concerned,  only  Singapore-registered 
surveyors and allied professionals shall have 
a beneficial interest in the capital assets and 
profits of the partnership. 
 
Allied  professionals  are  Singapore-registered 
engineers and architects. 
 
 
III-SG-11  
 
Sector  Business Services  
  Patent Agent Services 
 
Industry Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment  (Article 12.4) 
  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Patents Act, Cap. 221, 1995 Revised Edition 
   
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only  service  suppliers  registered  with  the 
Intellectual  Property  Office  of  Singapore  (IPOS) 
and/or  its  successor  body  and  resident  in 
Singapore shall be allowed to carry on a business, 
practise or act as a patent agent in Singapore. 
 
Only  service  suppliers  which  have  at  least  one 
Singapore-registered  patent  agent  resident  in 
Singapore either as a director or partner, shall be 
allowed to carry on a business, practise or act as a 
patent agent in Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-12  
 
Sector  Business services 
  Placement and supply services of personnel  
 
Industry Classification  CPC  87204    Supply  services  of  domestic  help 
  personnel 
 
Obligations Concerned   Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
   
Measure  Employment Agencies Act, Cap. 92 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
   
Only service suppliers with local presence shall be 
allowed to set up employment agencies and place 
foreign workers in Singapore. 
 
These  agencies  are  not  the  direct  employer  of 
foreign  workers  in  Singapore.    They  serve  as 
intermediaries  to  help  source  and  supply  foreign 
workers to employers of these workers.  Thus, this 
reservation  shall  be  read  with  the  Annex  IV 
reservation relating to the supply of a service by a 
natural person. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-13  
 
Sector  Business Services 
  Professional Engineering services  
Professional  engineering  services  includes  any 
professional  service,  consultation,  investigation, 
evaluation,  planning,  design  or  responsible 
supervision  of  construction  or  operation  in 
connection with any public or privately owned public 
utilities, buildings, machines, equipment, processes, 
works  or  projects  wherein  the  public  interest  and 
welfare, or the safeguarding of life, public health or 
property is concerned or involved, and that requires 
the application of engineering principles and data.  
  
Industry Classification    
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment  (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Professional  Engineers  Act,  Cap.  253,  1992 
Revised Edition 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only persons who are registered with or firms which 
are  licensed  by  the  Professional  Engineers  Board 
(PEB)  are  allowed  to  provide  professional 
engineering services in Singapore. 
 
The  implementation  in  Singapore  of  professional 
engineering  works  which  require  approval  by  the 
authorities  shall  be  carried  out  by  a  professional 
engineer  physically  present  in  Singapore  for  the 
duration when the project is being implemented. 
 
All  corporations  and  multi-disciplinary  partnerships 
providing  professional  engineering  services  shall 
obtain  a  licence  from  Professional  Engineering 
Board and/or its successor body. To qualify for the 
licence,  the  corporation  or  multi-disciplinary 
partnership shall meet the following requirements: 
 
(i)  the business of the corporation or partnership 
relating  to  professional  engineering  services 
shall be under the control and management of a 
director  or  a  partner  who  is  a  Singapore-
III-SG-14  
registered professional engineer and who has a 
valid practising certificate and who, in the case 
of corporations, is authorised under a resolution 
of the board of directors of the corporation to 
make all final engineering decisions on behalf of 
the corporation; and 
 
(ii)  where limited corporations are concerned, the 
majority  of  the  directors  shall  be  Singapore-
registered  professional  engineers  or  allied 
professionals; where unlimited corporations are 
concerned, all the directors or members shall be 
registered  professional  engineers  or  allied 
professionals;  where  multi-disciplinary 
partnerships  are  concerned,  the  beneficial 
interest in the capital assets and profits of the 
partnerships  shall  be  held  by  Singapore-
registered  professional  engineers  or  allied 
professionals. 
 
Allied  professionals  are  Singapore-registered  land 
surveyors and architects. 
 
 
III-SG-15  
 
Sector  Business Services 
  Real Estate Services  
 
Industry Classification  CPC 82202   Non-residential property management 
   services on a fee or contract basis  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment  (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure   Sentosa Development Corporation Revised Edition 
1998 (30th May 1998) 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only the Sentosa Development Corporation and/or 
its successor body shall be allowed to develop and 
manage  the  resort  island  of  Sentosa  and  its 
waterways and the Southern Islands of Singapore.  
 
However,  private  developers  are  allowed  to 
develop specific plots of land on Sentosa and the 
Southern  Islands  of  Singapore  for  commercial, 
residential and recreational purposes. 
 
For the purpose of this reservation, the “Southern 
Islands  of  Singapore”  are  St.  John’s  Island, 
Lazarus  Island,  Kusu  Island,  Pulau  Renggit, 
Sister’s  Island,  Pulau  Hantu,  Pulau  Biola,  Pulau 
Jong and Pulau Tekukor. 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-16  
 
Sector  Business Services 
  Technical testing and analysis services  
  
Industry   CPC 86769   Other technical testing and analysis 
Classification   services  
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority Act, Cap. 5, 2001 
Revised Edition 
Animals and Birds Act, Cap. 7, 1985 Revised Edition 
Control  of  Plants  Act,  Cap.  57A,  2000  Revised 
Edition 
 
Description  Cross-border Services 
   
Only service suppliers with local presence shall be 
allowed to provide testing, analytical and certification 
services  on  animals,  plants,  and  products  derived 
from animals and plants which are physically present 
in Singapore, including but not limited to, where such 
items are intended for import, export and import for 
the purposes of re-export. 
 
For  greater  certainty,  Singapore  reserves  the  right 
and flexibility to modify and/or increase the items as 
defined and/or listed in the Animals and Birds Act and 
the Control of Plants Act.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-17  
 
Sector  Business services 
  Private Investigation Services 
Unarmed Guard Services  
 
Industry Classification  CPC 87301  Investigation Services  
CPC 87302  Security Consultation Services 
  CPC 87305  Guard Services (only applies to 
 unarmed security guard services)  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment  (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
 
Measure   Private  Investigation  and  Security  Agencies  Act, 
Cap. 249, Regulation 23 
 
Description  Cross-border Services and Investment 
 
Only Singapore citizens or permanent residents and 
Malaysian  citizens  can  be  employed  as  security 
guards  or  as  private  investigators  in  enterprises 
providing  private  investigation  or  security  guard 
services.  Foreigners  can  be  involved  in  the 
administration of the enterprise. 
 
All enterprises providing unarmed guard services are 
precluded from escorting cash-in transit operations of 
S$250,000 and above.   
 
Please also note Singapore's reservation for armed 
guard services in Annex IV. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-18  
 
Sector  Community, Personal and Social Services  
Services of co-operative societies 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 952      Services furnished by membership 
organisations n.e.c (only applies to co-
operative society services) 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment  (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Co-operative Societies Act, Cap. 62 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only service suppliers with local presence can be registered 
under the Co-operative Societies Act. Registration allows a 
co-operative society to be exempt from taxation measures 
applicable to other enterprises. 
 
As a general rule, only Singapore citizens are allowed to 
hold office or be a member of the management committee 
of a co-operative society. Foreigners may be allowed to hold 
office or be a member of the management committee of a 
co-operative society, on a case-by-case basis. 
 
A person who is not a Singapore citizen can form and join a 
co-operative society if he or she is resident in Singapore. 
 
A foreign co-operative society may be allowed to acquire the 
shares of a Singapore cooperative society, on a case-by-
case basis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-19  
 
Sector  Education Services 
Higher Education Services in relation to the training 
of doctor 
 
Industry Classification   CPC 92390  Other Higher Education Services  
(Only applies to Higher Education 
Services in relation to the training of 
doctors)  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure   Medical Registration Act, Part V, Specialist 
  Accreditation Board, Sections 2, 3, 34 and 35 
 
Description  Investment 
 
Only  local  tertiary  institutions  shall  be  allowed  to 
operate undergraduate or graduate programmes for 
the training of doctors.   
 
Local  tertiary  institutions  are  tertiary  institutions 
which  are  established  pursuant  to  an  Act  of 
Parliament. 
 
 
III-SG-20  
 
Sector  Health and Social Services 
  Contact Lens Practitioners 
 
Industry Classification   
   
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
   
Measure  Contact Lens Practitioner Act, Cap. 53A, 1996 
  Revised Edition, Sections 4-7 
 
Description  Cross-border Services 
   
Only service suppliers who are resident in Singapore 
shall be allowed to be Contact Lens Practitioners.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-21  
 
Sector  Health and Social Services 
  Deliveries  and  related  services,  nursing  services, 
physiotherapeutic  and  para-medical  services  (only 
for nursing and midwifery services) 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 93191 Deliveries and related services, nursing 
  services, physiotherapeutic and para-
medical services  
(Only applies to nursing and midwifery 
services) 
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Nurses and Midwives Act, Cap. 209, 2000 Revised 
  Edition, Sections 26-30 
 
Description  Cross-border Services 
   
Only service suppliers who are registered with the 
Singapore Nursing Board and/or its successor body 
and resident in Singapore shall be allowed to supply 
nursing and midwifery services.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-22  
 
 
Sector  Health and Social Services 
  Medical Services 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 9312   Medical Services  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Medical Registration Act, Cap. 174, 1998 Revised 
  Edition 
 
Description  Cross-border Services 
 
Only service suppliers who are registered with the 
Singapore  Medical  Council  and/or  its  successor 
body, and resident in Singapore shall be allowed to 
supply medical services.  
 
Persons seeking to be registered with the Singapore 
Medical Council and who are not Singapore citizens 
will  have  to  complete  6  years  of  conditional 
registration  before  he  or  she  is  eligible  for  full 
registration.  
 
This reservation shall be read in conjunction with the 
Annex IV reservation on the limit on the number of 
doctors who can practise in Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-23  
 
Sector  Health and Social Services 
  Pharmacy Services   
Industry    
Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Pharmacists  Registration  Act,  Cap.  230,  1985 
  Revised Edition 
  Medicines Act, 1985 Revised Edition 
 
Description  Cross-border Services 
   
Only service suppliers who are registered with the 
Singapore  Pharmacy  Board  and/or  its  successor 
body and resident in Singapore shall be allowed to 
supply pharmacy services.  
 
This reservation shall be read in conjunction with the 
Annex  IV  reservation  relating  to  the  limit  on  the 
number  of  pharmacists  who  can  practise  in 
Singapore. 
 
Only Singapore-registered pharmacists (apart from 
medical  professionals)  shall  be  able  to  do  the 
following:  prepare,  dispense,  assemble  or  sell 
medicinal products as defined under the Medicines 
Act. 
 
For greater certainty, Singapore reserves the right 
and flexibility to modify and/or increase the list of 
products as defined and/or listed in the Medicines 
Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-24  
 
Sector  Import, export and trading services 
 
Industry Classification    
   
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Regulation of Imports and Exports Act, Cap. 272 A 
Regulation of Imports and Exports Regulation 
 
Description  Cross-border Services 
 
Only services suppliers with local presence shall be 
allowed  to  apply  for  import/export  permits, 
certificates of origin or other trade documents from 
the relevant authorities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-25  
 
Sector  Manufacturing 
 
Industry Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 12.5) 
 
Measure  Control of Manufacture Act, Cap. 57, 2001 Revised 
  Edition 
 
Description  Investment 
 
The  manufacture  of  the  following  products,  in 
Singapore, may be subject to certain restrictions: 
 
(a) beer and stout; 
(b) cigars; 
(c) drawn steel products; 
(d) chewing gum, bubble gum, dental chewing 
gum  or  any  like  substance  (not  being  a 
medicinal product within the meaning of the 
Medicines Act (Cap. 176) or a substance in 
respect of which an order under section 54 of 
that Act has been made); 
(e) cigarettes; and 
(f)  matches. 
 
The restrictions are not aimed at, but may result in 
inconsistencies with National Treatment and Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment. 
 
A  company  intending  to  manufacture  any  of  the 
above products in Singapore shall write in to the 
Registrar of Manufacturers for approval. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-26  
Sector  Post and Telecommunications Services  
Postal Services  
 
Industry     
Classification 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Postal Services Act, Cap. 237A 
 
Description  Cross-border Services and Investment 
   
(i) Only Singapore Post Pte Ltd and/or its successor 
body is allowed to convey letters and postcards 
and  perform  all  incidental  services  of  receiving, 
collecting, sending, dispatching and delivering of 
letters and postcards.  
 
  A  letter  is  defined  as  any  written  or  printed 
communication  in  the  nature  of  current  and 
personal correspondence. Current correspondence 
refers to daily correspondence between individuals 
and organisations, while personal correspondence 
refers to any correspondence that is addressed to 
any person, company or organisation by name or 
designation. A postcard means a card recognised 
as a postcard in accordance with the terms of the 
Convention regulating the affairs of the Universal 
Postal Union. 
 
(ii) Paragraph (i) of this reservation does not apply 
to express letter services, which is defined as a 
local, or an international express letter service or 
both.  This  service  is  administered  under  the 
Telecommunications  (Class  License  for  Postal 
Services) Regulations 1997.  
 
  Local  express  letters  must  be  delivered  and 
received in the same working day and charges 
must  be  more  than  S$1  per  item  or  3  times 
Singapore  Post’s  postage  for  a  20  gram  non-
express letter, whichever is higher.   
 
 
  An outgoing international express letter must be 
III-SG-27  
delivered faster than Singapore Post’s published 
delivery  standards  for  outgoing  (non-express) 
airmail letters and must have a price which is at 
least 3 times higher than Singapore Post’s non-
express rate for a 20 gram airmail letter to the 
same country of destination.  
 
  Incoming  international  express  letters  must  be 
delivered within the same working day.  
 
(iii)Service  suppliers  providing  express  letter 
services  must  have  a  local  presence  in 
Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-28  
 
Sector  Telecommunications Services  
 
Industry     
Classification 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Info-communications  Development  Authority  of 
Singapore Act, Cap. 137A 
Telecommunications Act, Cap. 323 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
   
A  facilities-based  operator  (FBO)  must  be  a 
company  incorporated  under  the  Singapore 
Companies Act, Chapter 50 (1994)*.  
 
A  services-based  operator  (SBO)  must  be  a 
company  incorporated  or  a  foreign  company 
registered  under  the  Singapore  Companies  Act, 
Chapter 50 (1994). 
 
The number of licences granted will be limited only by 
resource constraints, such as the availability of radio 
frequency  spectrum.    In  view  of  spectrum 
constraints, parties interested in deploying networks 
based on wireless technology may be licensed to 
use radio frequency spectrum via a tender or auction 
process.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
* A facilities-based operator deploying only fixed wireless infrastructure for public broadband multimedia 
services through the use of nationwide wireless LAN, LMDS, infra-red and laser technologies may be a 
foreign company registered under the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 (1994). 
III-SG-29  
 
Sector  Telecommunications Services 
  Domain name allocation policies in Internet country 
code top level domains (ccTLDs) corresponding to 
Singapore territories (.sg) 
 
Industry     
Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
   
Measure   Info-communications Development Authority of 
  Singapore Act, Cap. 137A 
   
Telecommunications Act (Cap. 323) 
 
The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and 
Numbers (ICANN), which recognises the ultimate 
authority of sovereign Governments over ccTLDs 
corresponding to their territories. 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
A  registrar  must  be  a  company  incorporated  or  a 
foreign  company  registered  under  the  Singapore 
Companies Act, Chapter 50 (1994).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-30  
 
Sector  Power supply  
 
Industry Classification   
  
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4)  
 
Measure  Electricity  Act,  Cap.  89A,  2002  Revised  Edition, 
  Sections 6(1) and 9(1) 
 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Power  producers,  whether  or  not  foreign-owned 
and whether located within or outside Singapore, 
shall  only  sell  power  through  the  Singapore 
electricity  wholesale  market  and  shall  not  be 
allowed to sell directly to consumers.   
 
The  amount  of  power  supplied  cumulatively  by 
power producers located outside of Singapore to 
Singapore’s  wholesale  power  market  shall  not 
exceed 600 MW.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-31  
 
Sector  Power supply  
   
Industry Classification   
  
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure   Electricity Act, Cap. 89A, 2002 Revised Edition 
   
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only SP Services Ltd and/or its successor body 
shall be allowed to supply electricity to:  
 
(i) all  household  consumers  of  electricity;  
 
(ii) non-household consumers of electricity whose   
Average  monthly  consumption  is  below 
10,000kWh; and 
 
(iii) consumers  whose  electricity  is  supplied  at 
single-phase low voltage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-32  
 
Sector  Power transmission and distribution 
 
Industry Classification   
  
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure   Electricity Act, Cap. 89A, 2002 Revised Edition 
 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only  SP  PowerAssets  Ltd  and/or  its  successor 
body shall be the transmission licensee as defined 
in the Electricity Act.   
 
SP  PowerAssets  Ltd  and/or  its  successor  body 
shall  be  the  sole  owner  and  operator  of  the 
electricity transmission and distribution network in 
Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-33  
 
Sector  Private households with employed persons 
   
Industry Classification  CPC 980  Private households with employed 
      persons  
Obligations Concerned   National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
   
Measure  Circular No: URA/PB/2001/20-PPD  
  Technopreneur Home Office Scheme 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
   
Only service suppliers who qualify under the home 
office schemes shall be allowed to set up businesses 
in their homes.   
 
As  set  out  in  Circular  No:  URA/PB/2001/20-PPD, 
home office businesses are only allowed on limited 
sites which are zoned “Commercial & Residential” 
and  “Residential  with  Commercial  on  First  Storey 
Only”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-34  
 
Sector  Tourism and Travel Related services 
  Beverage serving services for consumption on the 
premises  
Meal serving services in eating facilities run by the 
government  
Retail sales of foods  
 
Industry Classification   CPC 643    Beverage  serving  services  for 
    consumption on the premises. 
CPC 642   Food serving services  
CPC 6310   Retail sales of food 
 
Obligations Concerned   National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure  Environmental  Public  Health  Act,  Cap.  95,  1999 
  Revised Edition 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
   
Only a Singapore citizen or permanent resident can 
apply for a licence to operate a food establishment in 
places  such  as  hawker  centres,  restaurants  and 
cafes, in their personal capacity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-35  
 
 
Sector  Trade services 
Distribution and Sale of Hazardous Substances  
 
Industry   
Classification   
 
Obligations  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
Concerned   
 
Measure  Environmental Pollution Control Act, Cap. 94A, 2000 Revised 
  Edition, Section 22 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services  
 
Only service suppliers with local presence shall be allowed to 
distribute  and  sell  hazardous  substances  as  defined  in  the 
Environmental Pollution Control Act. 
 
For  greater  certainty,  Singapore  reserves  the  right  and 
flexibility  to  modify  and/or  increase  the  list  of  hazardous 
substances  as  defined  and/or  listed  in  the  Environmental 
Pollution Control Act.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-36  
 
Sector  Trade services 
  Distribution Services 
Retailing Services  
Wholesale Trade Services  
  
Industry Classification   
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure  Medicines Act, Cap. 176, 1985 Revised Edition 
   
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
   
Only service suppliers who appoint a local agent 
shall  be  allowed  to  supply  wholesale,  retail  and 
distribution services for medical and health-related 
products  and  materials  as  defined  under  the 
Medicines  Act,  intended  for  purposes  such  as 
treating,  alleviating,  preventing  or  diagnosing  any 
medical condition, disease or injury, as well as any 
other such items that may have an impact on the 
health and well-being of the human body. 
 
Such  products  and  materials  include  but  are  not 
limited  to  drugs  and  pharmaceuticals,  traditional 
medicines, health supplements, diagnostic test kits, 
medical  devices,  cosmetics,  tobacco  products, 
radioactive materials and irradiating apparatuses. 
 
For greater certainty, Singapore reserves the right 
and flexibility to modify and/or increase the list of 
medical and health-related products and materials 
as defined and/or listed in the Medicines Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-37  
Sector  Transport Services 
  Air Transport Services - Passengers Transportation by Air 
Freight Transportation by Air 
 
Industry Classification  CPC 731  Passenger Transportation by Air 
CPC 732   Freight Transportation by Air  
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
   
Measure    
   
Description  Cross Border Services and Investment 
 
Service suppliers providing air transport services (for both 
passenger  and  freight)  as  a  Singapore  designated  airline 
shall  have  to  comply  with  the  “effective  control”  and/or 
“substantial ownership” requirements of Singapore’s bilateral 
and multilateral air services agreements.  
 
Compliance  with  the  requirements  of  these  agreements 
may  require  these  service  suppliers  to  comply  with 
conditions  on  effective  control  and  limits  on  the  foreign 
ownership  as  stipulated  in  Singapore’s  bilateral  and 
multilateral air services agreements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-38  
 
 
Sector  Transport Services 
  Maritime Transport Services  
Cargo Handling Services 
Pilotage Services 
Supply of Desalinated Water to Ships berthed at 
Singapore ports or in Singapore territorial waters  
   
Industry  CPC 741  Cargo Handling Services  
Classification  CPC 74520  Pilotage and Berthing Services (only 
  applies to Pilotage Services)  
CPC 74590   Other Supporting Services for Water 
  Transport 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure   Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act, Cap. 
170A, 1997 Revised Edition 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only PSA Corporation Ltd and Jurong Port Pte Ltd 
and/or their respective successor bodies shall be 
allowed to provide cargo handling services.  
 
Only PSA Marine (Pte) Ltd. and/or its successor 
body shall be  allowed to provide pilotage services 
and supply desalinated water to ships berthed at 
Singapore ports or in Singapore territorial waters.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-39  
 
Sector  Transport Services 
  Maritime Transport Services  
 
Industry Classification    
  
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Maritime  and  Port  Authority  of  Singapore  Act,  Cap. 
170A, 1997 Revised Edition 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only  local  service  suppliers  shall  be  allowed  to 
operate and manage cruise and ferry terminals.   
 
Local service suppliers are either Singapore citizens or 
legal persons which are more than 50 percent owned by 
Singapore citizens.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-40  
 
Sector  Transport Services 
  Maritime Transport Services  
 
Industry Classification  CPC 74590  Other Supporting Services for Water 
        Transport 
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure  Merchant Shipping Act, Cap. 179, 1996 Revised 
  Edition 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only  a  Singapore  citizen  or  permanent  resident  or 
Singapore legal person shall be allowed to register a 
ship under the Singapore flag.  
 
To register a ship, other than tugs and barges, in 
Singapore, the company shall have a minimum paid-
up capital of S$50,000. To register a tug or barge in 
Singapore,  the  company  and  its  holding  company 
shall have a paid-up capital pegged to 10 percent of 
the  value  of  the  first  tug  or  barge  registered  or 
S$50,000  whichever  is  the  lesser,  subject  to  a 
minimum of S$10,000. 
 
All Singapore legal persons seeking to register ships 
under  the  Singapore  flag  shall  appoint  a  ship 
manager who is resident in Singapore.  
 
Vessels or ships owned by Singapore legal persons 
that are not majority owned by Singapore citizens or 
Singapore permanent residents shall be of at least 
1,600 Gross Tonnage and be self-propelled before 
they can be registered under the Singapore flag. 
 
For the purposes of this reservation, a Singapore 
legal person is a locally incorporated company. 
 
 
III-SG-41  
 
Sector  Transport Services 
  Maritime Transport Services 
 
Industry     
Classification    
 
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4) 
 
Measure   Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act, Cap. 
170A, 1997 Revised Edition, Section 40 
Maritime  and  Port  Authority  of  Singapore 
(Registration  and  Employment  of  Seamen) 
Regulations 
 
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Only Singapore citizens and permanent residents 
can register as Singapore seamen as defined in 
the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-42  
 
Sector  Production, retail, transportation and distribution of 
  manufactured gas and natural gas (piped gas) 
 
Industry Classification   
  
Obligations Concerned  National Treatment (Article 12.4)  
 
Measure   Gas Act, Cap. 116A 
   
Description  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
 
Only City Gas Ltd and/or its successor body shall 
be  allowed  to  produce  and  retail  manufactured 
gas.   
 
Only  Power  Gas  Ltd  and/or  its  successor  body 
shall  be  allowed  to  transport  and  distribute 
manufactured and natural gas (piped gas).   
 
Power Gas Ltd and/or its successor body shall be 
the sole owner and operator of the gas pipeline in 
Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-43  
 
Sector  Transport Services 
  Transportation services via pipeline  
 
Industry Classification  Transportation of goods via pipeline of goods such 
   as  chemical  and  petroleum  products  and 
petroleum, and other related products 
 
Obligations Concerned  Local Presence (Article 12.7) 
 
Measure   Administrative  
   
Description  Cross-Border Services 
 
Only service suppliers with local presence shall be 
allowed  to  provide  transportation  services  via 
pipeline of goods such as chemical and petroleum 
products and petroleum, and other related products. 
 
For greater certainty, Singapore reserves the right 
and flexibility to modify and/or increase the list of the 
chemical and petroleum products, and other related 
products that are subject to this reservation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III-SG-44 