15 December 2008
H.E. Lim Hng Kiang
Minister for Trade and Industry
The Republic of Singapore
Dear Excellency,
I have the honour to refer to the Free Trade Agreement between the 
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf and the Republic of Singapore 
signed at Doha, Qatar on 15 December 2008 (“the Agreement”).
2.
During the negotiations of the Agreement, the Parties agreed that a Chapter 
on market access/liberalisation may be negotiated at future reviews held by the 
Joint Committee in accordance with Article 1.11. The results of the negotiations of 
the Chapter on liberalisation/market access, if any, shall be incorporated into the 
Agreement in accordance with Article 10.2.
3.
I have the honour to confirm the following understandings reached between 
the Parties:
(a)
Investment issues will be dealt with through Investment Guarantee 
Agreements (“IGAs”) (also known as Bilateral Investment Treaties 
or  BITs).  These  IGAs  will  contain  elements  of  protection  and 
promotion of investment. 
(b)
Recognising that Singapore has entered into bilateral IGAs with 
three GCC Member States, namely, the Kingdom of Bahrain, the 
Sultanate of Oman and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Republic 
of Singapore stands ready to commence negotiations with the rest of 
the GCC Member States, namely, the State of Kuwait, the State of 
Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, each of whom may, at any 
time, request to commence bilateral negotiations with the Republic 
of  Singapore,  or  vice  versa.  Both  sides  to  such  bilateral  IGA 
negotiations shall complete such negotiations within a period of 2 
years,  or  earlier,  from  the  respective  dates  of  official 
commencement of the aforementioned negotiations.
(c)
Any State which becomes a party to the Charter of the Cooperation 
Council for the Arab States of the Gulf after the entry into force of 
this  Agreement  pursuant  to  Article  10.5,  and  for  which  this 
Agreement has entered into force for that State pursuant to Article 
10.3 may, at any time, request to commence bilateral negotiations 
with Singapore, or  vice versa. Both sides to such bilateral IGA 
negotiations shall complete such negotiations within a period of 2 
years,  or  earlier,  from  the  respective  dates  of  official 
commencement of the aforementioned negotiations.
  
4.
I have the honour to confirm that this letter, together with your reply 
confirming  this  understanding,  shall  constitute  an  agreement  that  the 
understandings  set  out  herein  shall  be  regarded  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
Agreement as from the date of your reply. 
Yours sincerely,
ABDULRAHMAN HAMAD AL-ATTIYAH
Secretary-General of the Cooperation 
Council for the Arab States of the Gulf
15 December 2008
H.E. Abdulrahman Hamad Al-Attiyah
Secretary-General of the Cooperation 
Council for the Arab States of the Gulf
Dear Excellency,
I have the honour to confirm receipt of your letter dated 15 December 2008 which 
reads as follows:
“
I have the honour to refer to the Free Trade Agreement between the 
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf and the Republic of 
Singapore signed at Doha, Qatar on 15 December 2008 (“the Agreement”).
2.
During the negotiations of the Agreement, the Parties agreed that a 
Chapter on market access/liberalisation may be negotiated at future reviews 
held by the Joint Committee in accordance with Article 1.11. The results of 
the negotiations of the Chapter on liberalisation/market access, if any, shall 
be incorporated into the Agreement in accordance with Article 10.2.
3.
I have the honour to confirm the following understandings reached 
between the Parties:
(a)
Investment  issues  will  be  dealt  with  through  Investment 
Guarantee Agreements (“IGAs”) (also known as Bilateral 
Investment  Treaties  or  BITs).  These  IGAs  will  contain 
elements of protection and promotion of investment. 
(b)
Recognising that Singapore has entered into bilateral IGAs 
with three GCC Member States, namely, the Kingdom of 
Bahrain, the Sultanate of Oman and the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia, the Republic of Singapore stands ready to commence 
negotiations  with  the  rest  of  the  GCC  Member  States, 
namely, the State of Kuwait, the State of Qatar and the 
United Arab Emirates, each of whom may, at any time, 
request to commence bilateral negotiations with the Republic 
of Singapore, or vice versa. Both sides to such bilateral IGA 
negotiations shall complete such negotiations within a period 
of 2 years, or earlier, from the respective dates of official 
commencement of the aforementioned negotiations.
(c)
Any State which becomes  a party to the Charter of the 
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf after the 
entry into force of this Agreement pursuant to Article 10.5, 
and for which this Agreement has entered into force for that 
State pursuant to Article 10.3 may, at any time, request to 
commence  bilateral  negotiations  with  Singapore,  or  vice 
versa. Both sides to such bilateral IGA negotiations shall 
complete such negotiations within a period of 2 years, or 
earlier, from the respective dates of official commencement 
of the aforementioned negotiations.
  
4.
I have the honour to confirm that this letter, together with your reply 
confirming  this  understanding,  shall  constitute  an  agreement  that  the 
understandings set out herein shall be regarded as an integral part of the 
Agreement as from the date of your reply.” 
I have the honour to confirm that the above understanding is shared by my 
Government and shall form an integral part of the Agreement from the date of this 
reply.
Yours sincerely,
LIM HNG KIANG
Minister for Trade and Industry
The Republic of Singapore
