71 
CHAPTER 9 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 
 
 
ARTICLE 9.1 
Objective, Scope and Definitions 
 
1. 
The objective of this Chapter is to provide the Parties with a dispute 
settlement mechanism that aims at achieving, where possible, mutually agreed 
solutions.  
 
2. 
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply with respect to any dispute 
where the GCC Member States or Singapore considers that the other Party is in 
breach of a provision of this Agreement, except where otherwise expressly 
provided in this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The dispute settlement procedures of this Chapter are without prejudice to 
a disputing Party’s right to seek recourse in dispute settlement procedures in the 
WTO, provided that the Joint Committee has been informed at least thirty (30) 
days before invoking such procedures.  
 
 
4.    Where a disputing Party has instituted a dispute settlement proceeding under 
either this Chapter or the WTO Agreement, it shall decide on one forum to the 
exclusion of the other. For the purposes of this paragraph, dispute settlement 
proceedings under the WTO Agreement are deemed to be initiated by a Party’s 
request for a panel under Article 6 of Annex 2 to the Understanding on Rules and 
Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes of the WTO Agreement. 
 
5. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise expressly 
indicates: 
 
 
(a) 
advisor means any person retained by any disputing Party to 
advise or assist that Party in connection with the arbitration panel 
proceeding; 
 
(b) 
arbitration panel means an arbitration panel established 
pursuant to Article 9.4; 
 
(c) 
complaining party means any Party that requests the 
establishment of an arbitration panel under Article 9.4; 
 
(d) 
representative of a disputing party means an employee, or a 
natural or juridical person appointed by a government department 
or agency or of any other government entity of a Party; and  
 
(e) 
responding party means any Party alleged to be in breach of this 
Agreement.  
 
72 
 
ARTICLE 9.2 
Consultations 
 
1. 
The Parties shall endeavour to resolve any dispute arising from this 
Agreement through good faith consultations, with the aim of reaching a mutually 
agreed solution. 
 
2.  
Any one or more of the GCC Member States may request in writing, 
consultations with Singapore and vice versa (hereinafter referred to as “disputing 
Parties”), stating the reasons for the request, including identification of the 
measures at issue and the indication of the legal basis for the complaint. The Joint 
Committee shall be informed of such requests.  
 
      
ARTICLE 9.3 
Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation 
 
1. 
Good offices, conciliation and mediation are procedures that are 
undertaken voluntarily if the disputing Parties so agree. 
      
2. 
Good offices, conciliation and mediation may be requested at any time by 
any disputing Party. They may commence at any time and be terminated at any 
time.  
 
3. 
Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation or mediation, and in 
particular, positions taken by the disputing parties during these proceedings, shall 
be confidential, and without prejudice to the rights of any Party in any proceedings 
under this Chapter or in other proceedings. 
 
4. 
If the disputing Parties agree, good offices, conciliation or mediation may 
continue while the proceedings of the arbitration panel provided for in this Chapter 
are in progress. 
 
5. 
Any disputing Party may inform the Joint Committee of the dispute and 
request the Joint Committee to act under this Article to amicably resolve the 
dispute. On receipt of such request, the Joint Committee shall act under this 
Article. 
 
6. 
Where the dispute is resolved through good offices or conciliation by 
another person or body, the disputing Parties shall notify the Joint Committee of 
the outcome.   
 
 
ARTICLE 9.4 
Establishment of Arbitration Panel 
 
1. 
A complaining Party may request in writing, to the Party complained 
73 
against, for the establishment of an arbitration panel if:  
 
(a) 
consultations under Article 9.2 are not held within thirty (30) 
days from the date of receipt of the request for such 
consultations;  
 
(b)  
the disputing Parties fail to resolve the dispute through 
consultations under Article 9.2 within sixty (60) days after the 
date of commencement of the consultations, unless the disputing 
Parties agree to continue the consultations; or 
 
(c) 
a disputing Party fails to comply with the mutually agreed 
solution within the agreed timeframe. 
 
2. 
Any request for the establishment of an arbitration panel shall indicate 
whether consultations under Article 9.2 were held, identify the specific measures 
at issue and provide a brief summary of the legal basis of the complaint, including 
the provisions of this Agreement alleged to have been breached and any other 
relevant provisions, sufficient to present the problem clearly.  
 
 
ARTICLE 9.5 
Composition of Arbitration Panel 
 
1. 
Unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise, an arbitration panel shall 
consist of three (3) members.  
 
2. 
Each of the disputing Parties shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of 
receipt of the request for the establishment of an arbitration panel, separately 
appoint one arbitrator who may be a national of the disputing Parties.     
 
3. 
Where the disputing Parties have appointed their respective arbitrators, the 
arbitrators shall, within fifteen (15) days of the appointment of the second of them, 
designate by common agreement, the third arbitrator. If any disputing Party 
disapproves the designated third arbitrator, it shall, within seven (7) days from the 
date of designation, notify its disapproval of the third arbitrator to the other 
disputing Party and to the two arbitrators.  
 
4. 
Where no third arbitrator has been appointed within the periods specified in 
this Article, or where any Party has disapproved the designation of a third 
arbitrator under paragraph 3 of this Article, any disputing Party may, within forty-
five (45) days of the period within which the appointment should be made, request 
the Director-General of the WTO to appoint the third arbitrator. This appointment 
shall be final. 
 
5. 
The third arbitrator shall be appointed as the Chairperson of the arbitration 
panel. He or she shall not be a national of, nor have his or her usual place of 
residence in, nor be employed by, any of the disputing Parties. He or she shall also 
74 
not have dealt with the dispute in any capacity. 
 
6. 
If any of the arbitrators resigns or becomes unable to act, a successor 
arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the appointment 
of the original arbitrator, and the successor arbitrator shall have all the powers and 
duties of the original arbitrator. The arbitration panel proceedings shall be 
suspended until a successor arbitrator is appointed. 
   
7. 
Any person appointed as an arbitrator shall have specialised knowledge or 
experience in law, international trade, other matters covered by this Agreement or 
the resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements. The 
arbitrators shall be independent, serve in their individual capacities, not be 
affiliated with, or take instructions from, any organisation or government or have 
any conflict of interest. The arbitrators shall comply with the Code of Conduct for 
Members of Arbitration Panels set out in Annex 9.    
 
8. 
The date of establishment of the arbitration panel shall be the date on 
which the Chairperson is appointed. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9.6 
Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1. 
The arbitration panel may, at the written request of the disputing Parties, 
suspend its work at any time for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months. Once 
the period of twelve (12) months has been exceeded, the authority for the 
establishment of the arbitration panel will lapse. 
 
2.   
The disputing Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings of an 
arbitration panel at any time before the issuance of the award by jointly notifying 
the Chairperson of the arbitration panel.  
 
 
ARTICLE 9.7 
Amicable Resolution 
 
1. 
Before the arbitration panel issues its draft award, it may, at any stage of 
the proceedings, propose to the disputing Parties that the dispute be settled 
amicably.  
 
2. 
The disputing Parties shall notify the Joint Committee when a dispute 
which has been referred to an arbitration panel is resolved amicably. 
 
  
ARTICLE 9.8 
Compliance with Award 
 
1. 
The arbitration panel award is final and binding from the date of its 
75 
notification to the disputing parties.  
 
2.  
The arbitration panel shall make its award based on the provision of this 
Agreement, applied and interpreted in accordance with the rules of interpretation 
of public international law. The award cannot add to or diminish the rights and 
obligations provided in this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The arbitration panel’s decision on the length of time required to 
implement the award will be final. The award must be complied with within this 
time. Where no time is prescribed for implementing the award, the award must be 
complied with within ninety (90) days of the date of the notification of the award.  
 
4. 
The disputing Parties may agree on a different period of time for the award 
to be complied with. In the absence of such agreement, where an award has not 
been complied with, either of the disputing Parties may request the arbitration 
panel to prescribe another period of time within which the award must be 
complied with. 
 
5. 
Before the expiry of the deadline for implementation determined under 
paragraph 3 of this Article, the responding Party will notify the complaining Party 
and the Joint Committee of the action it has taken in order to comply with the 
arbitration award. 
 
6. 
Where there is disagreement between the disputing Parties as to the 
conformity with the award of the action taken by the responding Party as notified 
in paragraph 5 of this Article with the award, the matter will be referred to the 
original arbitration panel.  
 
 
ARTICLE 9.9 
Non-compliance, Compensation and Suspension of Benefits 
 
1. 
If the responding Party does not notify any action in order to comply with 
the arbitration panel award before the expiry of the implementation deadline as 
required under paragraph 3 of Article 9.8, or otherwise fails to comply with the 
award in accordance with this Agreement, it shall, if so requested by the 
complaining party, and no later than after the expiry of a reasonable period of 
time, enter into negotiations with the complaining Party to develop mutually 
acceptable compensation.  
 
2. 
If no agreement is reached between the disputing Parties within twenty (20) 
days after the expiry of the reasonable period of time, the complaining party may 
refer the matter to the original arbitration panel to determine whether the 
responding Party has failed to comply with the arbitration panel award and, if so, 
to determine the appropriate level of any suspension of the application to the 
responding Party of benefits or other obligations under this Agreement. 
 
3.  
The suspension of benefits may commence thirty (30) days following the 
76 
end of the period awarded under paragraph 3 of Article 9.8 or after an arbitration 
panel has found that the measure taken to comply is not in conformity with the 
Agreement. The complaining party shall notify the responding Party of the 
benefits it intends to suspend fifteen (15) days before the date on which the 
suspension is due to enter into force. 
 
4. 
The complaining Party will first seek to suspend benefits or other 
equivalent obligations in the same sector or sectors affected. If the complaining 
party considers that it is not practical or effective to suspend benefits or 
obligations in the same sector or sectors affected, it may suspend them in other 
sectors under this Agreement, indicating the reasons to justify its decision. 
 
5. 
The responding Party may request the original arbitration panel to rule on 
whether the level of suspension of benefits notified by the complaining party is 
equivalent to the nullification and impairment suffered as a result of the breach 
and/or whether the proposed suspension is in accordance with paragraph 2 of this 
Article. The original arbitration panel will issue its ruling within thirty (30) days 
from the arbitration panel’s re-establishment. If a member of the original 
arbitration panel is unavailable, the procedures laid down under Article 9.5 will 
apply for the selection of a replacement arbitrator. The period for issuing the 
arbitration ruling in this instance remains thirty (30) days from the date of the re-
establishment of the arbitration panel.  
 
6. 
Where the original arbitration panel is requested to rule on the conformity 
with the Agreement of an implementing measure adopted after the suspension of 
benefits under paragraph 4 of this Article, the procedures and deadlines established 
under Annex 10 shall apply.  
 
7. 
The suspension of benefits will be a temporary measure and is not intended 
to replace the agreed objective of full compliance. Benefits will only be suspended 
until the measure found to be in breach of the Agreement has been withdrawn or 
amended so as to bring it into conformity with the Agreement, or when the 
disputing parties have reached an agreement on the resolution of the dispute. The 
responding Party shall notify the complaining party and the Joint Committee of the 
measures it has taken to comply. 
 
8. 
Where the disputing Parties disagree on the conformity with this 
Agreement of any implementing measure adopted after the suspension of benefits, 
the responding party may request the original arbitration panel to rule on this 
issue. If the arbitration panel rules that the implementing measure is not in 
conformity with this Agreement, the arbitration panel will determine whether the 
complaining Party may resume the suspension of benefits at the same or a 
different level.  
 
ARTICLE 9.10 
Temporary Remedies for Non-compliance 
 
1. 
If, prior to the deadline for implementation determined under paragraph 2 
77 
of Article 9.9, the responding Party considers that it will require further time to 
comply with the arbitration panel ruling, it will inform the complaining Party of 
the extra period of time it requires, whilst presenting an offer of market-opening 
compensation for this additional period of time until it comes into compliance with 
the ruling. 
 
2. 
If there is no agreement to the responding Party’s request for an extension 
to the time required for implementation, or on market-opening compensation, the 
complaining Party may suspend benefits under this Agreement. Article 9.9 shall 
apply in this case mutatis mutandis.  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 9.11 
Rules of Procedure 
 
1. 
The Rules of Procedure set out at Annex 10 shall apply to the procedures 
established in this Chapter. These Rules and any timeframes specified in this 
Chapter may be amended by the Joint Committee 
  
2. 
The disputing Parties may agree to vary these Rules to facilitate the 
resolution of their dispute. 
  
 
