11 
CHAPTER 1 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.1 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Agreement are: 
 
(a) 
to achieve the liberalisation of trade in goods, in conformity with Article 
XXIV of the GATT 1994, pursuant to Chapter 2; 
 
(b) 
to achieve the liberalisation of trade in services, in conformity with 
Article V of the GATS, pursuant to Chapter 5; and  
 
(c) 
to achieve further liberalisation on a mutual basis of the government 
procurement markets of the Parties, pursuant to Chapter 6. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.2 
General Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
GCC Member States means the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of 
Bahrain, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Sultanate of Oman, the State 
of Qatar and the State of Kuwait that are parties to the Charter of the 
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf, and any State which 
becomes a party to the Charter of the Cooperation Council for the Arab 
States of the Gulf and accedes to this Agreement pursuant to Article 10.3; 
 
(b) 
GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in Services in Annex 1B to 
the WTO Agreement;  
 
(c) 
GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. For the purposes of this Agreement, 
references to articles in the GATT 1994 include its Notes and 
Supplementary Provisions; 
 
(d) 
days means calendar days, including weekends and holidays; 
 
(e) 
WTO means the World Trade Organization;  
 
(f) 
WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the 
World Trade Organization, done at Marrakesh, 15 April 1994; and 
 
(g) 
Joint Committee means the Joint Committee established pursuant to 
Article 1.11 of this Agreement. 
12 
 
ARTICLE 1.3 
Geographical Scope 
 
Without prejudice to Annex 3 to Chapter 3, this Agreement shall apply: 
 
(a) 
to the land territory, internal waters, and the territorial sea of a Party, and 
the air-space above the territory in accordance with international law; as 
well as 
 
(b) 
beyond the territorial sea, with respect to measures taken by a Party in the 
exercise of its sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with 
international law. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.4 
Taxation 
 
1. 
Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall not apply to any taxation measures.  
 
2. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of any 
Party under any tax convention. In the event of any inconsistency between this 
Agreement and any such convention, that convention shall prevail to the extent of 
the inconsistency. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.5 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
1. 
Each Party reaffirms its rights and obligations under the WTO Agreement 
vis-à-vis another Party and/or other agreements to which any one or more of the 
GCC Members States and Singapore are party thereto. 
 
2. 
This Agreement shall not apply or affect the trade relations among the 
GCC Member States nor, unless expressly provided in this Agreement, shall it 
grant to Singapore rights and privileges that a GCC Member State grants 
exclusively to other GCC Member States. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.6 
Regional and Local Government 
 
1. 
Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be available to it 
to ensure observance of the provisions of this Agreement by the regional and local 
governments and authorities and by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
governmental powers delegated by central, regional and local governments and 
authorities within its territories. 
13 
 
2.     This provision is to be interpreted and applied in accordance with the 
principles set out in paragraph 3 of Article I of the GATS and paragraph 12 of 
Article XXIV of the GATT 1994.  
 
 
ARTICLE 1.7 
Transparency 
 
1. 
Subject to Article 1.8, each Party shall, in accordance with its domestic 
laws and regulations, publish its laws, or otherwise make publicly available its 
laws, regulations, administrative rulings and judicial decisions of general 
application as well as international agreements to which the Party is a party, that 
may affect the operation of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall promptly respond to specific questions by another Party 
and provide, upon request, information to that Party on matters referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Article.  
 
 
ARTICLE 1.8 
Confidential Information 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations, maintain the 
confidentiality of information designated as confidential by another Party. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall require a Party to disclose confidential 
information, the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement of the Party, 
or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice the 
legitimate commercial interests of any economic operator. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.9 
General Exceptions 
 
1. 
For the purposes of Chapters 2 and 3, Article XX of the GATT 1994 is 
incorporated into and forms part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of Chapter 5, Article XIV of the GATS, including its 
footnotes, is incorporated into and forms part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
 
ARTICLE 1.10 
Security Exceptions 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a) 
to require any Party to furnish any information, the disclosure of 
14 
which it considers contrary to its essential security interests; or 
 
(b) 
to prevent any Party from taking any action which it considers 
necessary for the protection of its essential security interests: 
 
(i) 
relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the 
materials from which they are derived; 
 
(ii) 
relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and 
implements of war and to such traffic in other goods and 
materials as is carried on directly or indirectly for the 
purpose of supplying a military establishment; 
 
(iii) 
in relation to Chapter 5, relating to the supply of services 
as carried out directly or indirectly for the purpose of 
provisioning a military establishment; 
 
(iv) 
relating to the protection of critical public infrastructure, 
including, but not limited to, critical communications 
infrastructures, 
power 
infrastructures 
and 
water 
infrastructures, from deliberate attempts intended to 
disable or degrade such infrastructures; 
 
(v) 
taken in time of domestic emergency, or war or other 
emergency in international relations; or 
 
(c) 
to prevent any Party from taking any action in pursuance of its 
obligations under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance 
of international peace and security.     
 
2. 
The Joint Committee shall be informed, to the fullest extent possible, of 
measures taken under subparagraphs (b)(ii) and (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.11 
Joint Committee 
 
1. 
A Joint Committee shall be established under this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Joint Committee:  
 
(a)  
shall be composed of representatives of the GCC Member States 
and Singapore; and  
 
(b) 
may establish standing or ad hoc sub-committees or working 
groups and assign any of its powers thereto. 
 
3. 
Unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties, the Joint Committee 
15 
shall be convened in regular session at least once every two (2) years to review 
and assess the overall operation of this Agreement. The regular sessions of the 
Joint Committee shall be held alternately in the territories of the Parties. 
 
4. 
The Joint Committee shall also hold special sessions within thirty (30) 
days from the date of a request thereof from any Party. 
 
5. 
The functions of the Joint Committee shall be as follows: 
 
(a) 
to review and assess the results and overall operation of this 
Agreement in the light of the experience gained during its 
application and its objectives; 
 
(b)  
to consider any amendments to this Agreement that may be 
proposed by any Party, including the modification of concessions 
made under this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
to endeavour to amicably resolve disputes between the Parties 
arising from the interpretation or application of this Agreement, 
or any other Agreement relating to market liberalisation to which 
they are both parties;   
 
(d) 
to supervise and coordinate the work of all sub-committees and 
working groups established under this Agreement; and 
 
(e) 
to carry out any other functions as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
6. 
The Joint Committee shall establish its own rules of working procedures.  
 
 
ARTICLE 1.12 
Communications 
 
1. 
Each Party shall designate a contact point to receive and facilitate official 
communications among the Parties on any matter relating to this Agreement, 
except as otherwise provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 2.10 and paragraph 2 of 
Article 2.11.  
 
2. 
All official communications in relation to this Agreement shall be either 
in the Arabic language or in the English language. The Parties agree that the 
choice of language of any communication shall be determined by considerations 
of efficiency and convenience. 
  
