ANNEX 1 
 
CUSTOMS DUTIES ELIMINATION SCHEDULE 
(THE GCC MEMBER STATES) 
 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, one year means 365 days, including weekends 
and public holidays. 
 
2. 
Goods in Category A of this Annex originating in Singapore in accordance 
with the provisions of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) shall be allowed import into the 
GCC free of customs duties, from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
For goods in Category B of this Annex originating in Singapore in accordance 
with the provisions of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin), the duties applicable to them shall 
remain at base rates for five years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
Thereafter, such goods shall be allowed import into the GCC free of customs duties, 
one day after the Agreement has entered into force for five years. 
 
4. 
Goods in Category C of this Annex originating in Singapore in accordance 
with the provisions of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) shall not be subject to any 
elimination or reduction of WTO bound rates of customs duties under this 
Agreement. 
 
5. 
For the purposes of this Agreement, a Party’s base rate for a product shall be 
no higher than the duty that is applicable to that product on the date of signature of 
this Agreement. If the rate of such duty is reduced below the base rate after the entry 
into force of this Agreement but not pursuant to the scheme of tariff elimination or 
reduction under this Agreement, the reduced rate shall be the new base rate. 
 
6. 
For the purpose of classifying goods and products traded between the Parties 
under this Agreement, the Harmonized System shall be used. Where there is a 
difference in the classification of any particular good that is traded between the 
Parties under this Agreement, the Parties may make a request to the World Customs 
Organisation for determination. 
 
7. 
The GCC shall, on the date of signature of this Agreement, submit its 
respective tariff elimination schedules that are applicable on the date of signature of 
this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
