65 
CHAPTER 7 
ELECTRONIC COMMERCE 
 
ARTICLE 7.1 
General 
 
The Parties recognise the economic growth and opportunity provided by electronic 
commerce and the importance of avoiding barriers to its use and development.  
 
 
ARTICLE 7.2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  
carrier medium means any physical object capable of storing a digital 
product by any method now known or later developed, and from which a 
digital product can be perceived, reproduced, or communicated, directly 
or indirectly, and includes, but is not limited to, an optical medium, a 
floppy disk, or a magnetic tape; 
 
(b) 
digital products means computer programmes, text, video, images, sound 
recordings and other products that are digitally encoded, regardless of 
whether they are fixed on a carrier medium or transmitted electronically;91 
 
(c) 
electronic transmission or transmitted electronically means the transfer 
of digital products using any electromagnetic or photonic means; and 
 
(d) 
using electronic means, means employing computer processing. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7.3 
Electronic Supply of Services 
 
The Parties agree that delivery by electronic means is to be considered as the 
supply of services using electronic means, within the meaning of the Chapter 5 
(Trade in Services). 
 
 
ARTICLE 7.4 
Digital Products 
 
1.  
A Party shall not apply customs duties or other duties, fees, or charges on 
or in connection with the importation or exportation of digital products by 
electronic transmission.102 
                                             
9  For greater clarity, digital products do not include digitized representations of financial instruments. 
10  Paragraph 1 of this Article does not preclude a Party from imposing internal taxes or other internal 
66 
 
2.  
Each Party shall determine the customs value of an imported carrier 
medium bearing a digital product according to the cost or value of the carrier 
medium alone, without regard to the cost or value of the digital product stored on 
the carrier medium. 
 
3.  
A Party shall not accord less favourable treatment to some digital products 
than it accords to other like digital products: 
 
(a)  on the basis that 
 
(i)  
the digital products receiving less favorable treatment are 
created, 
produced, 
published, 
stored, 
transmitted, 
contracted for, commissioned, or first made available on 
commercial terms, outside its territory; or  
 
(ii)  
the author, performer, producer, developer, or distributor 
of such digital products is a person of the other Party or a 
non-Party; or 
 
(b)  
so as otherwise to afford protection to the other like digital products 
that are created, produced, published, stored, transmitted, contracted 
for, commissioned, or first made available on commercial terms, in 
its territory. 
 
4. 
A Party shall not accord less favourable treatment to digital products: 
 
  
(a) 
created, produced, published, stored, transmitted, contracted for, 
commissioned, or first made available on commercial terms in the 
territory of the other Party than it accords to like digital products 
created, produced, published, stored, transmitted, contracted for, 
commissioned, or first made available on commercial terms, in the 
territory of a non-Party. 
 
 
(b)  
whose author, performer, producer, developer, or distributor is a 
person of the other Party than it accords to like digital products 
whose author, performer, producer, developer, or distributor is a 
person of a non-Party. 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article are subject to relevant exceptions or 
reservations set out in this Agreement or its Annexes, if any.  
 
6.  
This Chapter does not apply to measures affecting the electronic 
transmission of a series of text, video, images, sound recordings, and other 
products scheduled by a content provider for aural and/or visual reception, and for 
                                                                                                                               
charges provided that these are imposed in a manner consistent with this Agreement. 
 
67 
which the content consumer has no choice over the scheduling of the series. 
  
 
