ANNEX 7 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
 
1. 
Scope and Definition 
 
(a)  
This Annex applies to measures affecting the supply of financial services.  
Reference to the supply of a financial service in this Annex shall mean the 
supply of a service as defined in subparagraph (t) of Article 5.1.   
 
(b) 
For the purposes of subparagraph (a) of Article 5.1, "a service supplied in 
the exercise of governmental authority" means the following: 
 
 
(i)  
activities conducted by a central bank or monetary authority or by 
any other public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate 
policies;  
 
 
(ii)  
activities forming part of a statutory system of social security or 
public retirement plans; and 
 
 
(iii) 
activities conducted by a public entity for the account or with the 
guarantee or using the financial resources of the Government. 
 
(c)  
For the purposes of subparagraph (a) of Article 5.1, if a Party allows any of 
the activities referred to in subparagraphs (b)(ii) or (b)(iii) of this paragraph 
to be conducted by its financial service suppliers in competition with a 
public entity or a financial service supplier, "services" shall include such 
activities. 
 
(d)  
Paragraphs (b), (d), (o) and (v) of Article 5.1 shall not apply to services 
covered by this Annex. 
 
(e) 
For the purpose of this Annex, references to “service supplier of the other 
Party” and “service supplier” in Chapter 5 (Trade in Services), shall mean 
“financial service supplier of the other Party” and “financial service 
supplier” respectively, as defined in paragraph 7 of this Annex.  
 
 
2. 
Domestic Regulation 
 
(a)  
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a Party shall not 
be prevented from adopting or maintaining measures for prudential 
reasons, including for the protection of investors, depositors, policy holders 
or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service supplier, 
or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial system. Where such 
measures do not conform with the provisions of Chapter 5 (Trade in 
Services), they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party's 
commitments or obligations under Chapter 5 (Trade in Services).   
 
(b) 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to disclose 
information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or 
any confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public 
entities. 
 
 
3. 
Recognition 
 
(a) 
A Party may recognise prudential measures of any international standard 
setting body or non-Party in determining how the Party's measures relating 
to financial services shall be applied. Such recognition, which may be 
achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an 
agreement or arrangement with the international standard setting body or 
non-Party concerned or may be accorded autonomously. 
 
(b) 
A Party that is a party to such an agreement or arrangement referred to in 
subparagraph 3(a) of this paragraph, whether future or existing, shall afford 
adequate opportunity for the another Party to negotiate its accession to such 
agreements or arrangements, or to negotiate comparable ones with it, under 
circumstances in which there would be equivalent regulation, oversight, 
implementation of such regulation, and, if appropriate, procedures 
concerning the sharing of information between the parties to the agreement 
or arrangement.   
 
(c)  
Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate 
opportunity for the another Party to demonstrate that such circumstances as 
referred to in subparagraph 3(b) exist.   
 
 
4. 
New Financial Services 
 
Each Party shall permit a financial service supplier of the another Party established 
in its territory to supply any new financial service of a type similar to those 
services that the it would permit its own financial service suppliers, in like 
circumstances, to supply under its domestic law. A Party may determine the 
institutional and juridical form through which the new financial services may be 
supplied and may require authorisation for the supply of the service. Where a 
Party requires such authorisation of the new financial services, it shall give its 
decision within a reasonable time and the authorisation may only be refused for 
prudential reasons. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Transparency 
 
 (a)  
For the purposes of this Annex, each Party shall, to the extent practicable:   
 
(i) 
make available in advance any regulations of general application 
relating to the supply of financial services that it proposes to adopt; 
and 
 
 
(ii)  
provide interested persons and another Party a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on such proposed regulations. 
 
(b)  
Each Party’s regulatory authorities shall make available to interested 
persons their requirements, including any documentation required, for 
completing applications relating to the supply of financial services. 
 
(c)  
On the request of an applicant, the regulatory authority shall inform the 
applicant of the status of the application. If such authority requires 
additional information from the applicant, it shall notify the applicant 
without undue delay.  
 
(d)  
A regulatory authority shall make an administrative decision on a 
completed application relating to the supply of a financial service within a 
reasonable period of time. 
 
(e)  
Each Party shall maintain or establish appropriate mechanisms that will 
respond to inquiries from interested persons regarding measures of general 
application, covered by this Annex.  
 
(f) 
Each Party shall ensure that the rules of general application adopted or 
maintained by self-regulatory organisations of the Party are promptly 
published or otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable 
interested persons to become acquainted with them.  
 
(g) 
To the extent practicable, each Party should allow reasonable time between 
the publication of final regulations and their effective date.  
 
(h) 
At the time it adopts final regulations, a Party shall endeavour, to the extent 
practicable, to address in writing substantive comments received from 
interested persons with respect to the proposed regulations.  
 
 
6. 
Dispute Settlement 
 
Persons appointed to arbitration panels under Chapter 9 (Settlement of Disputes) 
for disputes on obligations in financial services matters under this Agreement shall 
have the necessary expertise relevant to the specific financial service under 
dispute. 
 
7. 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a)  
financial service is any service of a financial nature offered by a financial 
service supplier of a Party. Financial services include all insurance and 
insurance-related services, and all banking and other financial services 
(excluding insurance). Financial services include the following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
(i) 
direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
 
 
(A) 
life; 
 
 
(B) 
non-life; 
 
 
(ii) 
reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
 
(iii) 
insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; 
 
 
(iv) 
services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk 
assessment and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
 
(v) 
acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
 
 
(vi) 
lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, 
factoring and financing of commercial transaction; 
 
 
(vii) 
financial leasing; 
 
 
(viii) all payment and money transmission services, including credit, 
charge and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts; 
 
 
(ix) 
guarantees and commitments; 
 
 
(x) 
trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an 
exchange, in an over-the-counter market or otherwise, the 
following: 
 
 
 
(A) money 
market 
instruments 
(including 
cheques, 
bills, 
certificates of deposits); 
 
 
 
(B) foreign exchange; 
 
 
 
(C) derivative products including, but not limited to, futures and 
options; 
 
 
 
(D) exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products 
such as swaps, forward rate agreements; 
 
 
 
(E) transferable securities; 
 
 
 
(F) other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including 
bullion; 
 
 
(xi) 
participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including 
underwriting and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) 
and provision of services related to such issues; 
 
 
(xii) 
money broking; 
 
 
(xiii) asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms 
of collective investment management, pension fund management, 
custodial, depository and trust services; 
 
 
(xiv) settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including 
securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
 
(xv) 
provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data 
processing and related software by suppliers of other financial 
services; 
 
 
(xvi) advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on all 
the activities listed in subparagraphs (v) through (xv), including 
credit reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and 
advice, advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and 
strategy. 
 
(b) 
financial service supplier means any natural or juridical person of a Party 
wishing to supply or supplying financial services, but the term "financial 
service supplier" does not include a public entity. 
 
(c) 
Juridical person has the same meaning as subparagraph (f) of Article 5.1.  
 
(d) 
Juridical person of a Party means a juridical person which is either: 
 
 
(i) 
constituted or otherwise organised under the law of the other Party; 
or 
 
 
(ii) 
in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, 
owned or controlled by: 
 
 
 
(A) 
natural persons of the other Party; or 
 
 
(B) 
juridical persons of the other Party identified under 
subparagraph (d)(i) above. 
 
(e) 
natural person of a Party has the same meaning as subparagraph (l) of 
Article 5.1. 
 
(f) 
Public entity means: 
 
 
(i)  
a government, a central bank or a monetary authority, of a Party, or 
an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally engaged 
in carrying 
out 
governmental 
functions 
or 
activities for 
governmental purposes, not including an entity principally engaged 
in supplying financial services on commercial terms;  or 
 
 
(ii)  
a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a 
central bank or monetary authority, when exercising those 
functions. 
 
(g) 
Self-regulatory organisation means any non-governmental body, 
including any securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, 
other organisation or association, that exercises regulatory or supervisory 
authority over financial service suppliers or financial institutions, by statute 
or delegation from central, regional or local government or authorities.  
 
8. 
Shariah-Compliant Financial Services 
Each Party recognises that the term “financial service” is broadly defined for 
purposes of Chapter 5 (Trade in Services), and that numerous financial services 
are capable of being offered or supplied in various forms. The Parties note that the 
term “financial service” is comprehensive enough to include Shariah-compliant 
financial services compatible with the definition of subparagraph (a) of paragraph 
7, and paragraphs 4 and 1 of this Annex. In accordance with their commitments 
and obligations under this Chapter, each Party will consider proposals by financial 
institutions of the other Party to offer such services in its territories on the same 
basis as any other proposal to offer similar financial services consistent with its 
laws, including any regulatory or supervisory requirements. 
 
