15 December 2008
H.E. Lim Hng Kiang
Minister for Trade and Industry
Republic of Singapore
Dear Excellency,
 
With   reference   to   the   Free   Trade   Agreement   (including   Annexes,   the 
“Agreement”) between the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf 
(“GCC”) and the Republic of Singapore (“Singapore”), signed at Doha, Qatar on 
15   December   2008,   the   United   Arab   Emirates   (“UAE”)   confirms   its 
understanding as follows:
The UAE is an independent, sovereign, federal state, with seven sovereign 
Member Emirates (“Member Emirates”), and pursuant to its Constitution each 
Member   Emirate   retains   full   sovereignty,   sovereign   rights   and   exclusive 
jurisdiction over its natural resources and wealth of which the Energy Resources 
Sector is the subject matter of this letter.  For purposes of this letter, “Energy 
Resources Sector” shall mean all hydrocarbons such as oil, gas, and condensates, 
derivates   and   primary   by-products   thereof   with   respect   to   ownership, 
management, exploration, development and production, exploitation (including 
reservoir management), transportation, storage, refining and processing, and 
distribution up to and including retail distribution.
In recognition of the foregoing, the Agreement shall not grant any rights to 
Singapore or create any obligations for the UAE or any of its Member Emirates 
with regard to the Energy Resources Sector.  Accordingly, the Energy Resources 
Sector shall be excluded from all aspects and provisions of the Agreement, 
including dispute settlement obligations and related procedures.   All matters 
pertaining to the Energy Resources Sector of any of the Member Emirates are 
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Member Emirates, and all determinations 
and decisions of each Member Emirate made by such Member Emirate’s 
competent authorities pertaining to the Energy Resources Sector (“Competent 
Authorities”) that is the subject of its jurisdiction shall be final, binding and not 
subject to review or challenge.
Subsequent to the date of this Agreement and in the event that the UAE with 
concurrence of the Member Emirates’ Competent Authorities grants any rights 
excluded by this letter to a third country with respect to the Energy Resources 
Sector by a Free Trade Agreement, such rights shall be granted to Singapore.
Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a difference in the interpretation or 
application of the agreed scope of this letter, the UAE and Singapore commit to 
have recourse to consultation and mediation.  Mediation shall take place at the 
request of either of the Parties to this letter.  The provisions on Consultation and 
Mediation   set   out   in   Chapter   9   (Settlement   of   Disputes),   Articles   9.2 
(Consultations) and 9.3 (Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation) and Annex 10, (Rules of Procedure), Rule 1 (Calculation of Deadlines), 2 (Consultations) and 3 
(Mediation), respectively, shall apply mutatis mutandis (with all reference to the 
"Parties" in such Articles deemed to mean only the UAE and Singapore), with the 
exclusion of all provisions related to Arbitration.  In the event that the UAE and 
Singapore Party have failed to achieve a mutually agreed solution following 
recourse to mediation, or if the UAE fails to comply with the mutually agreed 
solution within the agreed timeframe, Singapore only recourse shall be that it may 
suspend benefits under the Agreement proportionate to the trade effects which the 
measure in question causes or threatens to cause.  Moreover, Singapore shall 
repeal its compensatory measures to the extent that the UAE’s measure in question 
ceases to apply.  The procedure described above in this paragraph shall also apply 
in case of any dispute relating to whether Singapore compensatory measures are 
proportionate, with the UAE likewise ultimately having the right to suspend 
benefits accordingly.
The UAE and the Singapore further agree that this letter shall constitute an 
integral part of the Agreement, and in the unlikely event of any inconsistency 
between this letter and any provisions of the Agreement, this letter shall prevail to 
the extent of that inconsistency.  For avoidance of doubt, nothing in this letter 
shall detract from UAE's commitments under the Agreement regarding activities 
assigned to the UAE Federal Government by the UAE Constitution.
I would be grateful for your confirmation that Singapore agrees with this 
understanding.
Sincerely yours,
LUBNA BINT KHALID AL QASIMI
Minister of Foreign Trade
United Arab Emirates15 December 2008
H.E. Sheikha Lubna Bint Khalid Al Qasimi
Minister of Foreign Trade
United Arab Emirates  
Dear Excellency,
I have the honour to confirm the receipt of your letter dated 15 December 2008, 
which reads as follows:
“With reference to the Free Trade Agreement (including Annexes, the 
“Agreement”) between the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the 
Gulf (“GCC”) and the Republic of Singapore (“Singapore”), signed at 
Doha, Qatar on 15 December 2008, the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”) 
confirms its understanding as follows:
The UAE is an independent, sovereign, federal state, with seven sovereign 
Member Emirates (“Member Emirates”), and pursuant to its Constitution 
each Member Emirate retains full sovereignty, sovereign rights and 
exclusive jurisdiction over its natural resources and wealth of which the 
Energy Resources Sector is the subject matter of this letter.  For purposes 
of this letter, “Energy Resources Sector” shall mean all hydrocarbons 
such as oil, gas, and condensates, derivates and primary by-products 
thereof with respect to ownership, management, exploration, development 
and   production,   exploitation   (including   reservoir   management), 
transportation, storage, refining and processing, and distribution up to and 
including retail distribution.
In recognition of the foregoing, the Agreement shall not grant any rights to 
Singapore or create any obligations for the UAE or any of its Member 
Emirates with regard to the Energy Resources Sector.  Accordingly, the 
Energy Resources Sector shall be excluded from all aspects and provisions 
of the Agreement, including dispute settlement obligations and related 
procedures.  All matters pertaining to the Energy Resources Sector of any 
of the Member Emirates are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
Member Emirates, and all determinations and decisions of each Member 
Emirate made by such Member Emirate’s competent authorities pertaining 
to the Energy Resources Sector (“Competent Authorities”) that is the 
subject of its jurisdiction shall be final, binding and not subject to review or 
challenge.
Subsequent to the date of this Agreement and in the event that the UAE 
with concurrence of the Member Emirates’ Competent Authorities grants 
any rights excluded by this letter to a third country with respect to the 
Energy Resources Sector by a Free Trade Agreement, such rights shall be 
granted to Singapore.Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a difference in the interpretation 
or application of the agreed scope of this letter, the UAE and Singapore 
commit to have recourse to consultation and mediation.  Mediation shall 
take place at the request of either of the Parties to this letter.   The 
provisions on Consultation and Mediation set out in Chapter 9 (Settlement 
of   Disputes),   Articles   9.2   (Consultations)   and   9.3   (Good   Offices, 
Conciliation or Mediation) and Annex 10, (Rules of Procedure), Rule 1 
(Calculation   of   Deadlines),   2   (Consultations)   and   3   (Mediation), 
respectively, shall apply  mutatis mutandis  (with all reference to the 
"Parties" in such Articles deemed to mean only the UAE and Singapore), 
with the exclusion of all provisions related to Arbitration.  In the event that 
the UAE and Singapore Party have failed to achieve a mutually agreed 
solution following recourse to mediation, or if the UAE fails to comply 
with the mutually agreed solution within the agreed timeframe, Singapore 
only recourse shall be that it may suspend benefits under the Agreement 
proportionate to the trade effects which the measure in question causes or 
threatens to cause.  Moreover, Singapore shall repeal its compensatory 
measures to the extent that the UAE’s measure in question ceases to apply. 
The procedure described above in this paragraph shall also apply in case of 
any dispute relating to whether Singapore compensatory measures are 
proportionate, with the UAE likewise ultimately having the right to 
suspend benefits accordingly.
The UAE and the Singapore further agree that this letter shall constitute an 
integral part of the Agreement, and in the unlikely event of any 
inconsistency between this letter and any provisions of the Agreement, this 
letter shall prevail to the extent of that inconsistency.  For avoidance of 
doubt, nothing in this letter shall detract from UAE's commitments under 
the   Agreement   regarding   activities   assigned   to   the   UAE   Federal 
Government by the UAE Constitution.
I would be grateful for your confirmation that Singapore agrees with this 
understanding.” 
I have the further honour to confirm that this understanding is shared by my 
Government and constitutes an integral part of the Free Trade Agreement between 
the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf and the Republic of 
Singapore.
Sincerely yours,
LIM HNG KIANG
Minister for Trade and Industry
Republic of Singapore