CHAPTER 10 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.1 
Annexes and Side Letters 
 
The Annexes and Side Letters to this Agreement shall form an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.2 
Amendments 
 
1.  Any Party may submit proposals for amendments to this Agreement to the 
Joint Committee for consideration and approval.   
 
2.  Amendments  to  this  Agreement  shall,  after  approval  by  the  Joint 
Committee, be submitted to the Parties for ratification, acceptance or approval in 
accordance  with  the  constitutional  requirements  or  legal  procedures  of  the 
respective Parties. 
 
3.  Amendments to this Agreement shall enter into force in the same manner 
as provided for in Article 10.5, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.3 
Accession 
 
1.  Any State which becomes one of the GCC Member States may accede to 
this  Agreement,  provided  that  the  Joint  Committee  decides  to  approve  its 
accession, on terms and conditions to be agreed upon by the Parties. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall apply to that State upon the conclusion of and entry 
into force of amendments to this Agreement to provide for the accession of that 
State to this Agreement.  
 
3.  The entry into force of the amendments referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Article shall be in accordance with Article 10.2. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.4 
Withdrawal and Termination 
 
1.  The  GCC  may  terminate  this  Agreement  by  means  of  a  written 
notification to Singapore, or Singapore may terminate this Agreement by means of 
a written notification to the GCC. The termination shall take effect six (6) months 
after the date of notification. 
78  
2.  Any State which withdraws from the Charter of the Co-operation Council 
for  the  Arab  States  of  the  Gulf  shall  ipso  facto  cease  to  be  a  Party  to  this 
Agreement six (6) months after the date the withdrawal takes effect. That State and 
the GCC Secretariat shall immediately inform Singapore of that State’s withdrawal. 
 
3.  Any Party may terminate its participation in this Agreement by means of a 
written notification to the other Parties. The termination shall take effect, in case 
of Singapore six (6) months after all the GCC Member States have received its 
notification of termination, and in the case of a GCC Member State six (6) months 
after its notification of termination is received by Singapore. 
 
4.  Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, the termination by any Party of its 
participation in this Agreement pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article shall not 
affect  the  validity  or  duration  of  any  contract,  project  or  activity  within  the 
purview of this Agreement until such time these contracts, projects or activities are 
completed. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.5 
Entry into Force 
 
This Agreement  shall  enter  into  force  on  the  first  day  of  the  second  month 
following  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  last  written  notification  through  the 
diplomatic channels by which the Parties inform each other that all necessary 
requirements have been fulfilled. 
 
 
 
 
79 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have 
signed this Agreement. 
 
DONE at Doha, Qatar in duplicate, in the English and Arabic languages, this 15th 
day of December 2008, which corresponds to this 17th day of Dhu Al-Hijjah, 1429 
Hijri. In the event of any inconsistency, the English text shall prevail to the extent 
of the inconsistency. 
 
 
For the Governments of the    For the Government of the 
Cooperation Council for the  Republic of Singapore 
Arab States of the Gulf 
     
   
   
   
   
   
HAMAD BIN JASSIM BIN  LEE HSIEN LOONG 
JABR AL-THANI  Prime Minister 
Prime Minister and    Republic of Singapore 
Minister of Foreign Affairs   
State of Qatar 
President-in-Office of the 
Ministerial Council   
Cooperation Council for the 
Arab States of the Gulf 
     
   
   
   
   
   
ABDULRAHMAN HAMAD   
AL-ATTIYAH 
Secretary-General 
Cooperation Council for the 
Arab States of the Gulf 
 
80 