ANNEX 8B 
 
MEANS OF PUBLICATIONS 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
GCC Member States 
 
 
A.  BAHRAIN 
 
Part 1:  Publication for laws, regulations, judicial decisions and administrative rulings of 
general application, and procedures, including standard contract clauses: 
 
Official Gazette 
 
Part 2: Procurement opportunities: 
 
http://www.tenderboard.gov.bh 
 
 
B.  KUWAIT 
 
WWW.CTG.GOV.KW 
 
 
C.  QATAR 
 
WWW.CTC.GOV.QA 
 
 
D.  OMAN 
 
The following information shall be included in the tender’s advertisement: the authority 
that receives tenders, deadlines for tenders, the type of materials to be supplied and 
work to be carried out, tender bond, cost of the copy of tender terms and conditions, 
postal fees and conditions for advance payment. 
 
Publication  for  laws,  regulations,  judicial  decisions  and  administrative  rulings  of 
general application, and procedures: 
 
1.  Tender Board: http://www.tenderboard.gov.om/Eng/default.asp ; or 
 
2.  Times of Oman (http://www.timesofoman.com/) ; or 
 
3.  Oman  (http://www.omandaily.com/) 
  1  
 
E.   SAUDIA ARABIA 
 
Appendix 1: Means of Publication 
 
Part 1: publication for laws, regulations, judicial decisions and administrative rulings 
of general application, and procedures, including standard contract clauses: 
 
Official gazette, Umm Al-Qura 
 
Part 2: Notice of intended procurement (open tendering) will be published in Arabic in 
the following means of publication: 
 
- Official gazette, Umm Al-Qura 
- Two local newspapers 
- On the procuring entity website 
 
 
Appendix 2: Notice of Intended Procurement 
 
A procuring entity shall include the following information in each notice of intended 
procurement: 
 
(a)  The name of the procuring entity. 
 
(b)  The tender’s number and its description. 
 
(c)  Classification field and price of tender documentation 
 
(d)  The time frame and place for submitting and opening tenders. 
 
 
Appendix 3: Minimum Information 
 
The following is required for any supplier to be included in the Classification list: 
 
(a)  Submission of classification application to the Deputy Ministry of Municipal 
and Rural Affairs for Contractors Classification with all required documentation. 
 
(b)  After  completing  all  required  information,  the  Department  of  Contractors 
Classification will start classifying supplier. 
 
(c)  Deputy  Ministry  for  Contractors  Classification  will  issue  a  certificate  of 
classification valid for 3 years. 
  2  
(d)  The list of classified contractors will be available on the website of the Deputy 
Ministry for Contractors Classification. 
 
 
F.  UNITED ARABS EMIRATES 
 
Laws and regulations: Official Gazette 
 
Procurement opportunities: http://egov.uae.gov.ae  Formatted: French (France)
 
Field Code Changed
 
Formatted: French (France)
 
Formatted: French (France)
SCHEDULE 2  
SINGAPORE 
 
All information on government procurements are in the website : www.gebiz.gov.sg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3 