 1 ANNEX 8C  TIME LIMITS  SCHEDULE 1 GCC Member States   A. BAHRAIN  1. A procuring entity shall prescribe time limits for tendering that allow suppliers sufficient time to prepare and submit responsive tenders, taking into account the nature and complexity of the procurement. Except as provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3, a procuring entity shall provide no less than forty (40) days from the date of publication of a notice of intended procurement to the deadline for submission of tenders.  2.  Under the following circumstances, a procuring entity may establish a time limit for tendering that is less than forty (40) days, provided that such time limit is sufficiently long to enable suppliers to prepare and submit responsive tenders and is in no case less than ten (10) days:  (a) where the entity has published a separate notice, including a notice of planned procurement at least forty (40) days and not more than twelve (12) months in advance, and such separate notice contains a description of the procurement; the time limits for the submission of tenders or, where appropriate, applications for participation in a procurement; and the address from which documents relating to the procurement may be obtained.  (b) where the entity procures commercial goods or services, except that the procuring entity may not rely on this provision if it requires suppliers to satisfy conditions for participation;  (c) in duly substantiated cases of extreme urgency brought about by events unforeseeable by the procuring entity, such that a forty (40)-day deadline would result in serious adverse consequences to the entity or the relevant Party; or  (d) in the case of the second or subsequent publications dealing with contracts of a recurring nature.  3. When a procuring entity publishes a notice of intended procurement in an electronic medium, the procuring entity may reduce the time limit for submission of a tender or an application for participation in a procurement by up to five days. In no case  2 shall the procuring entity reduce either time limit to less than ten (10) days from the date on which the notice of intended procurement is published.  4. A procuring entity shall require all participating suppliers to submit tenders by a common deadline. For greater certainty, this requirement also applies where:  (a) as a result of a need to amend information provided to suppliers during the procurement process, the procuring entity extends the time limit for qualification or tendering procedures; or  (b) negotiations are terminated and suppliers are permitted to submit new tenders.   B. KUWAIT  1 Entities shall provide no less than thirty (30) days between the date on which the notice of intended procurement is published and the final date for the submission of tenders.  2. Where an entity requires suppliers to satisfy qualification requirements in order to participate in procurement, the entity shall provide no less than thirty (30) days between the date on which the notice of intended procurement is published and the final date to submit the requests for participation and no less than thirty (30) days between the date of issuance of the invitation to tender and the final date for submission of tenders.  3. Shorter periods not less than fourteen (14) days can be taken into consideration in the following cases:  (a) where a state of urgency duly substantiated by the procuring entity renders impracticable the periods specified in paragraphs 1 and 2.  (b) a second or subsequent publications dealing with contracts of a recurring nature.  (c) Where a notice of planned procurement has been published forty (40) days and not more than twelve (12) months in advance.  (d) Procurement of off-the-shelf goods or services.  (e) If a mutual agreement between the entity and the selected supplies could be reached, the entity may fix periods other than mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2, in the absence of agreement, the entity may fix periods which shall be sufficiently long to enable responsive tendering.  3  C. QATAR  ---  D. OMAN  ---   E.  SAUDIA ARABIA  The procuring entity shall provide no less than thirty (30) days from the date of publication of a notice of intended procurement. Under the following circumstances, a procuring entity may establish a time limit for tendering of less than thirty (30) days:  (a) If the cost of the government procurement is one million Saudi Riyal or less; or  (b) In case of limited and selective tendering.   F. UNITED ARABS EMIRATES  ---  SCHEDULE 2 SINGAPORE   ---     