68 CHAPTER 8 COOPERATION   ARTICLE 8.1 Objectives and Scope  1. The Parties agree to establish a framework for cooperation between one or more of the GCC Member States and Singapore as a means to expand and enhance the benefits of this Agreement.   2. The Parties affirm the importance of all forms of cooperation, with particular attention given to (i) Information and Communications Technology (ICT); (ii) Media; (iii) Energy; (iv) Electronic Commerce; (v) Halal Certification Standards and Halal Mark; (vi) Air Services; and (vii) Business visits in contributing towards implementation of the objectives and principles of this Agreement.   3. Chapter 9 (Settlement of Disputes) shall not apply to any matter or dispute arising from this Chapter.   ARTICLE 8.2 Cooperation in the Field of Information  and Communications Technology (ICT) The Parties, recognising the rapid development, led by the private sector, of ICT and of business practices concerning ICT-related services both in the domestic and the international contexts, shall co-operate to promote the development of ICT and ICT-related services with a view to obtaining the maximum benefit of the use of ICT for the Parties.  ARTICLE 8.3 Areas and Forms of Cooperation  1. The areas of co-operation pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 8.1 may include the following:  (a) promotion of electronic commerce;  (b)  promotion of the use by consumers, the public sector and the private sector, of ICT-related services, including newly emerging services; and  (c) human resource development relating to ICT.   2. The Parties may set out specific areas of co-operation which they deem 69 important.   3.  The forms of co-operation pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 8.1 may include the following:  (a)  promoting dialogue on policy issues;  (b)  promoting co-operation between the respective private sectors of the Parties;  (c)  enhancing co-operation in international fora relating to ICT; and  (d) undertaking other appropriate co-operative activities.   ARTICLE 8.4 Electronic Commerce  Recognizing the global nature of electronic commerce, the Parties shall encourage co-operative activities to promote electronic commerce. The areas of co-operation may include the following: (a) promoting and facilitating the use of electronic commerce by small and medium sized enterprises; and (b) sharing information and experiences as mutually agreed on laws, regulations and programmes in the sphere of electronic commerce.   ARTICLE 8.5 Halal Certification Standards and Halal Mark Within one year of the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties will negotiate and make arrangements to provide for recognition by the GCC Member States of Singapore’s Halal Certification Standards and Halal Mark.   ARTICLE 8.6 Air Services Cooperation The Parties, recognising the importance of air transport services in their respective economies, endeavour to cooperate in the air services sector. Such cooperation may include, inter alia, concluding or enhancing in a mutually beneficial manner air services agreements between one or more of the GCC Member States and Singapore.   70 ARTICLE 8.7 Business Visits Cooperation The Parties, recognising the importance of the exchange of business visits in their respective economies, shall promote such visits and exchanges, including pre-establishment visits, between the Parties.    