CHAPTER 4 
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.1 
Scope 
 
This Chapter shall apply, in accordance with the Parties’ respective national laws, 
rules  and  regulations,  to  customs  procedures  required  for  clearance  of  goods 
traded between the Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 4.2 
General Provisions 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  that  the  objectives  of  this  Agreement  may  be 
promoted by the simplification of customs procedures for their bilateral trade. 
 
2.   Customs procedures of the Parties shall conform where possible, to the 
standards and recommended practices of the World Customs Organization. 
 
3.  The  customs  administration  of  each  Party  shall  periodically  review  its 
customs procedures with a view to their further simplification and development to 
facilitate bilateral trade. 
 
ARTICLE 4.3 
Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations, guidelines, procedures, 
and administrative rulings governing customs  matters are promptly published, 
either on the Internet or in print form. 
 
2.  Each Party shall designate, establish, and maintain one or more inquiry 
points to address inquiries from interested persons pertaining to customs matters, 
and  shall  endeavour  to  make  available  publically  through  electronic  means, 
information concerning procedures for making such inquiries. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Article or in any part of this Agreement shall require any 
Party to publish law enforcement procedures and internal operational guidelines 
including those related to conducting risk analysis and targeting methodologies. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.4 
Risk Management 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  adopt  a  risk  management  approach  in  its  customs 
activities, based on its identified risk of goods, in order to facilitate the clearance 
of low risk consignments, while focusing its inspection activities on high-risk 
29 goods. 
 
2.  The Parties shall exchange information on risk management techniques 
used in the performance of their customs procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.5 
Paperless Communications 
 
1.  For the purposes of trade facilitation, the Parties shall endeavour to provide 
an  electronic  environment  that  supports  business  transactions  between  their 
respective customs administration and their trading entities. 
 
2.  The  Parties  shall  exchange  views  and  information  on  realising  and 
promoting  paperless  communications  between  their  respective  customs 
administration and their trading entities. 
 
3.  The  respective  customs  administration  of  the  Parties,  in  implementing 
initiatives which provide for the use of paperless communications, shall take into 
account the methodologies agreed at the World Customs Organization. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.6 
Certification of Origin 
 
1.  The certification of origin will be issued by the competent authority of each 
Party for the first two (2) years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
2.  The  Parties  shall  exchange  specimen  signatures  of  the  authorised 
signatories  issuing  the  certification  of  origin  and  shall  provide  specimen 
impressions of official seals at least six (6) months before the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement. 
 
3.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Article,  the  Parties  agreed  to 
include  the  origin  criterion  text  which  would  appear  in  the  corresponding 
description of goods column of the Certification of Origin as "QUALIFYING 
VALUE CONTENT: %” or “CTC”, as the case may be. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, at the first regular review 
session of this Agreement by the Joint Committee pursuant to paragraph 3 of 
Article 1.11, the Parties shall evaluate and decide on whether to continue with the 
issue of the certification of origin by the competent authority of each Party, or to 
switch to the self-certification procedures as set out in paragraphs 5 to 9 of this 
Article. If either Party is not ready to switch to self-certification during the first 
regular review session, the issue shall be deferred to subsequent reviews until such 
time where both Parties can agree to adopt the self-certification procedures. 
 
 
30 5.  In the case of self-certification, for the purpose of obtaining preferential 
tariff treatment in the other Party, a proof of origin in the form of a certification of 
origin shall be completed in accordance with Annex 4 and signed by an exporter or 
producer of the exporting Party, certifying that a good qualifies as an originating 
good for which an importer may claim preferential treatment upon the importation 
of the good into the territory of the other Party. 
 
6.  The details in the certification of origin have been agreed between the 
Parties to consist of the HS Code, description and quantity of the goods, name of 
consignee, name of exporter or producer or manufacturer, and the country of 
origin. 
 
7.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  require  an  exporter  in  its  territory  to  complete  and  declare  a 
certification of origin for any exportation of goods for which an 
importer may claim preferential tariff treatment upon importation 
of the goods into the territory of the other Party; and 
(b)  provide that where an exporter in its territory is not the producer 
of the good, the exporter may complete and declare a certification 
of origin on the basis of: 
 
(i)  his  knowledge  of  whether  the  good  qualifies  as  an 
originating good; or 
 
(ii)  his  reasonable  reliance  on  the  producer's  written 
representation that the good qualifies as an originating 
good; or 
 
(iii)  a  completed  and  signed  certification  for  the  good 
voluntarily provided to the exporter by the producer. 
 
8.     Nothing  in paragraph 7 of  this Article shall  be construed  to require  a 
producer to provide a certification of origin to an exporter. 
 
9.  Each  Party  shall  provide  that  a  certification  of  origin  that  has  been 
completed and signed by an exporter or producer in the territory of the other Party 
that is applicable to a single importation of a good into the Party’s territory shall 
be accepted by its Customs Administration within six (6) months from the date on 
which the certification of origin was signed. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.7 
Claims for Preferential Treatment 
 
1.  Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each Party shall require an 
importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement 
to: 
31  
(a)  request preferential tariff treatment at the time of importation of an 
originating product, whether or not the importer has a certification 
of origin; 
 
(b)  make a written declaration that the good qualifies as an originating 
good;  
 
(c)  have the certification of origin in its possession at the time the 
declaration is made, if required by the importing Party's customs 
administration; 
 
(d)  provide an original or a copy of the certification of origin as may be 
requested by the importing Party's customs administration and, if 
required by that customs administration, such other documentation 
relating to the importation of the product; or  
 
(e)  promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any duties owing 
where the importer has reason to believe that a certification of origin 
on which a declaration was based contains information that is not 
correct.  
 
2.  A Party may deny preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement to an 
imported good if the importer fails to comply with any requirement in this Article.    
 
3.  Each Party shall, in accordance with its laws, provide that where a good 
would  have  qualified  as  an  originating  good  when  it  was  imported  into  the 
territory of that Party, the importer of the good may, within a period specified by 
the laws of the importing Party, apply for a refund of any excess duties paid as a 
result of the good not having been accorded preferential treatment.   
 
 
ARTICLE 4.8 
Waiver of Certification of Origin 
 
Each Party shall provide that a certification of origin shall not be required for the 
importation of a good whose value does not exceed US$1,000 or its equivalent 
amount  in  the  Party's  currency,  except  that  it  may  require  that  the  invoice 
accompanying the importation shall include a statement certifying that the good 
qualifies as an originating good. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.9 
Record Keeping Requirement 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide that the exporter or producer in its territory that 
declares a certification of origin shall maintain in its territory, for thirty (30) 
months after the date on which the certification of origin was signed, all records 
32 relating to the origin of a good for which preferential tariff treatment was claimed 
in the territory of another Party, including records associated with: 
 
(a)  the purchase of, cost of, value of, shipping of, and payment for, the 
good that is exported from its territory; 
 
(b)  the sourcing of, purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all 
materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the 
good that is exported from its territory; and 
 
(c)  the production of the good in the form in which the good is exported 
from its territory. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  provide  that  an  importer  claiming  preferential  tariff 
treatment for a good imported into the Party's territory shall maintain in that 
territory, for thirty (30) months after the date of importation of the good, such 
documentation, including a copy of the certification of origin, as the Party may 
require relating to the importation of the good.     
 
3.  The records to be maintained in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Article may include electronic records and shall be maintained in accordance with 
the domestic laws and practices of each Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.10 
Cooperation in Origin Verification 
 
1.  For the purpose of determining the authenticity and the correctness of the 
information given in the certification of origin, the importing Party may conduct 
verification by means of: 
 
(a)  requests for information from the importer; 
 
(b)  requests  for  assistance  from  the  customs  administration  of  the 
exporting Party as provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article; 
 
(c)  written questionnaires to an exporter or a producer in the territory of 
another  Party  through  the  competent  authority  of  the  exporting 
Party; 
 
(d)  visits to the premises of an exporter or a producer in the territory of 
another Party, subject to the consent of the exporter or the producer 
and the competent authority of the exporting Party; or 
 
(e)  such other procedures as the Parties may agree. 
 
2.  For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  1(b)  of  this  Article,  the  customs 
administration of the importing Party: 
33  
(a)  may request the customs administration of the exporting Party to 
assist it in verifying: 
 
(i)  the authenticity of a certification of origin; and/or 
 
(ii)  the accuracy of any information contained in the certification 
of origin; and 
 
(b)  shall provide the customs administration of another Party with: 
 
(i)  the reasons why such assistance is sought; 
 
(ii)  the certification of origin, or a copy thereof; and 
 
(iii) any information and documents as may be necessary for the 
purpose of providing such assistance. 
 
3.  To  the  extent  allowed  by  its  domestic  law  and  practices,  the  customs 
administration of the exporting Party shall fully co-operate in any action to verify 
eligibility. 
 
4.  The  Party  conducting  a  verification  shall,  through  its  customs 
administration, provide the exporter or producer whose good is the subject of the 
verification with  a written determination of whether the good qualifies as an 
originating  good,  including  findings  of  fact  and  the  legal  basis  for  the 
determination. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.11 
Advance Rulings 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide for the issuance of written advance rulings, prior 
to the importation of a good into its territory, to an importer of the good in its 
territory or to an exporter or producer of the good in another Party, as to whether 
the good qualifies as an originating good.  The importing Party shall issue its 
determination regarding the origin of the good within sixty (60) days from the date 
of receipt of an application for an advance ruling. 
 
2.  The  importing  Party  shall  apply  an  advance  ruling  issued  by  it  under 
paragraph  1  of  this  Article.  The  customs  administration  of  each  Party  shall 
establish a validity period for an advance ruling of not less than two (2) years from 
the date of its issuance. 
 
3.  The importing Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling: 
 
(a)  if the ruling was based on an error of fact; 
 
34 (b)  if there is a change in the material facts or circumstances on which 
the ruling was based; 
 
(c)  to conform with a modification of this Chapter; or 
 
(d)  to conform with a judicial decision or a change in its domestic law. 
 
4.  Each Party shall provide that any modification or revocation of an advance 
ruling shall be effective on the date on which the modification or revocation is 
issued, or on such later date as may be specified therein, and shall not be applied 
to importations of a good that have occurred prior to that date, unless the person to 
whom the advance ruling was issued has not acted in accordance with its terms 
and conditions. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  4  of  this  Article,  the  issuing  Party  shall 
postpone the effective date of the modification or revocation of an advance ruling 
not exceeding ninety (90) days where the person to whom the advance ruling was 
issued demonstrates that he has relied in good faith to his detriment on that ruling.  
 
 
ARTICLE 4.12 
Penalties 
 
Each Party shall maintain measures imposing criminal, civil or administrative 
penalties,  whether  solely  or  in  combination,  for  violations  of  its  laws  and 
regulations relating to this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.13 
Review and Appeal 
 
With respect to determinations relating to eligibility for preferential treatment 
under this Agreement or advance rulings, each Party shall provide that importers 
in its territory in accordance to its domestic laws or practices have access to: 
 
(a)  at least one level of administrative review of determinations by its customs 
administration independent21of either the official or office responsible for 
the decision under review; and 
 
(b)  judicial review of decisions taken at the final level of administrative review. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                             
2   For GCC Member States and Singapore the level of administrative review may include the 
competent authority supervising the customs administration.  
35 ARTICLE 4.14 
Sharing of Best Practices 
 
The Parties shall facilitate initiatives for the exchange of information on best 
practices in relation to customs procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.15 
Confidentiality 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to furnish 
or allow access to confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede 
law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would 
prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or 
private. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  maintain,  in  accordance  with  its  domestic  laws,  the 
confidentiality of information obtained pursuant to this Chapter and shall protect 
that information from disclosure that could prejudice the competitive position of 
the persons providing the information. 
  
 
36 