16 
CHAPTER 2 
TRADE IN GOODS 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.1 
Scope and Coverage 
 
This Chapter applies to trade in goods between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
customs duty1 refers to any duty or charge of any kind imposed in connection 
with the importation of a product, including any form of surtax or surcharge in 
connection with such importation, but does not include any: 
 
(a) 
charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with a 
Party’s WTO obligations, including excise duty as well as goods 
and services tax; 
 
(b)  
anti-dumping or countervailing duty that is applied consistently 
with the provisions of Article VI of the GATT 1994, the 
Agreement on the Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 
1994, and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing 
Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; or 
 
(c)  
fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate 
with the cost of services rendered and which does not represent a 
direct or indirect protection for domestic goods or a taxation of 
imports for fiscal purposes. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.3  
National Treatment 
 
1. 
The Parties shall accord national treatment in accordance with Article III of 
the GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes. 
 
2. 
To this end, Article III of the GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes are 
incorporated into and form part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
                                             
1  This definition of customs duty shall apply to all references to "customs duty" appearing in this 
Agreement. 
17 
ARTICLE 2.4  
Customs Duties  
 
1. 
Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, Singapore shall eliminate its 
customs duties applied on goods originating from GCC Member States in 
accordance with Annex 2 and GCC Member States shall eliminate its customs 
duties applied on goods originating from Singapore in accordance with Annex 1. 
 
2. 
GCC Member States shall not increase an existing customs duty or 
introduce a new customs duty on the importation of goods originating in the 
territory of Singapore, or vice versa. 
 
3. 
The Parties agree that this Agreement will not result in restricting existing 
trade flows. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.5 
Temporary Admission 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, in accordance with its respective domestic laws, grant 
temporary admission free of customs duties for the following goods:  
 
(a)  
professional and scientific equipment, including their spare parts, 
owned and accompanied by a resident of a Party; and 
 
(b) 
goods intended for display or use at exhibitions, fairs or other 
similar events, including commercial samples for the solicitation 
of orders. 
 
2.  
A Party shall not impose any condition on the temporary admission of a 
good referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, other than to require that such good: 
 
(a) 
be accompanied by a security deposit in an amount no greater 
than the charges that would otherwise be owed on importation, 
releasable on exportation of the good; 
 
(b)  
be exported within three (3) months from the date it was 
temporarily admitted or such other period of time as is reasonably 
related to the purpose of temporary admission; and 
 
(c)  be capable of identification when exported. 
 
3.  
If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 2 of this Article has 
not been fulfilled, that Party may apply the customs duty and any other charges 
that would normally be owed on importation of the good. 
 
4.  
Each Party shall, at the request of the importer and for reasons deemed 
valid by its Customs Administration, extend the time limit for temporary 
18 
admission beyond the period initially fixed. 
 
5.  
Each Party shall relieve the importer of liability for failure to export a 
temporarily admitted good upon presentation of satisfactory proof to the Party’s 
Customs Administration that the good has been destroyed within the original time 
limit for temporary admission or any lawful extension. Prior approval will have to 
be sought from the Customs Administration of the importing Party before the good 
can be so destroyed.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2.6  
Non-tariff Measures 
 
1. 
No Party shall adopt or maintain any non-tariff measures on the 
importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation of any good 
destined for the territory of another Party, except in accordance with its WTO 
rights and obligations or the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures 
permitted under paragraph 1 of this Article and that such measures are not 
prepared, adopted or applied with a view to or with the effect of creating 
unnecessary obstacles to trade between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.7  
Customs Valuation 
 
The Parties shall determine the customs value of goods traded between them in 
accordance with the provisions of Article VII of the GATT 1994 and the 
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the GATT 1994 in Annex 1A to 
the WTO Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.8 
Anti-dumping and Countervailing Duties, Subsidies  
and Safeguard Measures 
 
The rights and obligations of each of the GCC Member States and Singapore on 
anti-dumping and countervailing duties, subsidies and safeguard measures shall be 
governed by Articles VI, XVI and XIX of the GATT 1994 respectively, and the 
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Agreement on 
Safeguards and the Agreement on Agriculture in Annex 1A to the WTO 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9  
Transparency 
 
19 
Article X of the GATT 1994 is incorporated into and form part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.10 
Technical Regulations, Standards and Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1. 
The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment procedures shall be governed by the 
Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade in Annex 1A of the WTO Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as “the TBT Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Parties shall strengthen their co-operation in the field of technical 
regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures, with a view to 
increasing the mutual understanding of their respective systems and facilitating 
access to their respective markets. 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this Article, where a Party considers 
that another Party has taken measures which are likely to create, or have created, 
an obstacle to trade, the Parties agree to hold consultations within the framework 
of the Joint Committee in order to find an appropriate solution, which is in 
conformity with the TBT Agreement. 
 
4. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the Parties shall exchange names and 
addresses of their official contact points with expertise in technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment procedures in order to facilitate technical 
consultations and the exchange of information. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.11 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
1.  
The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures shall be governed by the Agreement on the Application of 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as “the SPS Agreement”).   
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the Parties shall exchange names and 
addresses of their official contact points with expertise in sanitary and 
phytosanitary matters in order to facilitate technical consultations and the 
exchange of information. 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this Article, where a Party considers 
that another Party has taken measures which are likely to create, or have created, 
an obstacle to trade, the Parties agree to hold consultations within the framework 
of the Joint Committee in order to find an appropriate solution in conformity with 
the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
20 
ARTICLE 2.12 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance-of-Payments 
 
1. 
The Parties shall endeavour to avoid the imposition of restrictive measures 
for balance-of-payments purposes. 
 
2. 
Any such measures taken for trade in goods shall be in accordance with 
Article XII of the GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments 
Provisions of the GATT 1994, the provisions of which are incorporated into and 
form part of this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 2.13  
State Trading Enterprises 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from maintaining 
or establishing a state trading enterprise in accordance with Article XVII of the 
GATT 1994. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.14  
Revision Clause 
 
Upon request by a Party, the Parties shall consult to consider accelerating the 
elimination of customs duties as set out in Annex 1 or incorporating into one 
Party’s schedule, goods that are not subject to the elimination schedule. Further 
commitments between the Parties to accelerate the elimination of a customs duty 
on a good or to include a good in Annex 1 shall supersede any duty rate or staging 
category determined pursuant to their respective Schedules. These commitments 
shall enter into force after the Parties have exchanged notification certifying that 
they have completed the necessary internal legal procedures and on such dates as 
may be agreed between the Parties.  
  
 
