Annex 2-A Elimination of Customs Duties 
1 
 
ANNEX 2-A 
ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
1. 
All customs duties by a Party on goods originating in the other Party shall be eliminated 
as from the date of the entry into force of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided 
in the respective Party’s Schedules included in this Annex. 
 
2.  
The following staging categories shall apply to the elimination of customs duties by 
each Party pursuant to Article 2.6 (Reduction and/or Elimination of Customs Duties on 
Imports) for those customs duties not eliminated at the entry into force of this 
Agreement: 
 
 
(a) 
customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
category “3” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in four equal annual stages 
beginning on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods 
shall be free of any customs duties, effective 1 January of year four; 
 
(b) 
customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
category “5” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in six equal annual stages 
beginning on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods 
shall be free of any customs duties, effective 1 January  of year six; 
 
(c) 
customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
category “7” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in eight equal annual stages 
beginning on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods 
shall be free of any customs duties, effective 1 January of year eight; 
 
(d) 
customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
category “10” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in eleven equal annual 
stages beginning on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such 
goods shall be free of any customs duties, effective 1 January  of year eleven; 
 
(e) 
no obligations under this Agreement regarding customs duties shall apply with 
respect to items in staging category “X”.  
 
3.  
In relation to goods under a particular tariff code, the base rate of the customs duty and 
the staging category for determining the interim rate of the customs duty at each stage 
of reduction are indicated for that tariff code in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
4.  
For the purposes of paragraph 2, rates of customs duties in the interim stages shall be 
rounded down, at least to the nearest tenth of a percentage point and/or, in the case of 
Turkey, to the nearest tenth of one Turkish Kurus, or any other equivalent currency unit, 
where applicable.  
 
5.  
For the purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule, “year one” means the year of 
entry into force of this Agreement and “year two” means the calendar year following 
“year one” and so on. 
Annex 2-A Elimination of Customs Duties 
2 
 
 
6.  
For the purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule, beginning in year two, each 
annual stage of tariff reduction shall take effect on 1 January of the relevant year. 
 
7. 
Appendices 2-A-1, 2-A-2, 2-A-3 and 2-A-4 form an integral part of this Annex. 
 
  
 
