Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
   
ANNEX 10-B 
NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES 
SCHEDULE OF TURKEY 
 
Explanatory Notes 
 
1.  The  Schedule  of  Turkey  to  this  Annex  sets  out,  pursuant  to  Article  10.6  (Non-
Conforming Measures) of Chapter 10 (Financial Services), the reservations taken by 
Turkey  for  the  specific  sectors,  sub-sectors,  or  activities  for  which  Turkey  may 
maintain existing, or adopt new or more restrictive measures that do not conform with 
the obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 10.3 (National Treatment) of Chapter 10 (Financial Services), 
  
(b)   Article  10.4  (Market  Access  for  Financial  Institutions)  of  Chapter  10 
(Financial Services), or  
 
(c)   Article  10.5  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Financial  Services)  of  Chapter  10 
(Financial Services).   
 
2.  The sectors, subsectors or activities to which a reservation applies shall be stated in the 
Description  of  Reservation  element.  In  the  interpretation  of  a  reservation,  all 
elements of the reservation shall be considered in their totality. 
  
3.  Each Schedule entry sets out the following elements: 
(a)  Sector refers to the general sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Sub-sector refers to the specific sub-sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Type of Reservation specifies the article(s) referred to in paragraph 1 that, 
pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  Article  10.6  (Non-Conforming  Measures)  of 
Chapter 10 (Financial Services), do not apply to the sectors, subsectors, or 
activities scheduled in the entry; 
 
(d)  Description of Reservation sets out the scope of the sectors, subsectors, or 
activities covered by the entry; and  
 
(e)  Source of Measure identifies, where relevant and for transparency purposes, 
existing measures that apply to the sectors, subsectors, or activities covered by 
the entry. The measures stipulated therein are not exhaustive. 
 
4.   Whenever, in this Schedule, the supply of services is conditioned upon obtaining 
authorization  from  relevant  regulatory  authorities,  it  shall  be  understood  that  the 
authorization process is non-automatic, requiring a case-by-case evaluation, and the 
regulatory authorities may exercise discretion over their decisions. 
   
1 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
1. 
 
   
2 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
   
3 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
4 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
4. 
 
   
5 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
5. 
 
   
6 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
6. 
   
7 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
7.  
   
8 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
8.  
 
 
   
9 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
 
9. 
  
 
 
   
                                                           
1 Information systems comprises infrastructure, hardware, software and data which ensure the execution of 
financial activities as well as the recording and use of information in electronic media in a secure manner and as 
to be accessed when needed.  
10 
 Annex 10-B Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
 
10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 