Annex 10-A  Non-Conforming Measures for Financial Services (Schedule of Turkey) 
 
ANNEX 10-A 
NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES 
SCHEDULE OF TURKEY 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
1.  The  Schedule  of  Turkey  to  this  Annex  sets  out,  pursuant  to  Article  10.6  (Non-
Conforming Measures) of Chapter 10 (Financial Services), the reservations taken by 
Turkey with respect to existing measures that do not conform with some or all of the 
obligations imposed by: 
 
(i)  Article 10.3 (National Treatment) of Chapter 10 (Financial Services); 
 
(ii)  Article 10.4 (Market Access for Financial Institutions) of Chapter 10 (Financial 
Services); and  
 
(iii)  Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services) of Chapter 10 (Financial 
Services). 
 
2.  All measures affecting Article 10.3 (National Treatment), Article 10.4 (Market Access 
for Financial Services) and Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services) of 
Chapter 10 (Financial Services) shall be stated in the Description of Reservation element. 
In the interpretation of a reservation, all elements of the reservations shall be considered 
in their totality. 
   
3.  Each Schedule entry sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)  Sector refers to the general sector for which the entry is made, 
 
(b)  Sub-sector refers to the specific sector for which the entry is made, 
 
(c)  Type  of  Reservation specifies the obligation(s) referred to in paragraph 1 that, 
pursuant to paragraph 1(a) of Article 10.6 (Non-Conforming Measures) of Chapter 
10 (Financial Services), do not apply to the non-conforming aspects of the law, 
regulation, or other measure identified in the Source of Measure element of that 
entry;   
 
(d)  Source  of  Measure 1  identifies  the  laws,  regulations,  rules,  procedures, 
administrative actions or any other form of measure for which the reservation is 
taken. A measure cited in the Source of Measure element: 
 
(i)  means the measure as amended, continued, or renewed as of the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii)  includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the authority 
of and consistent with the measure; and 
                                                           
1 For greater certainty, a change in the level of government at which a measure is administered or enforced does 
not, by itself, decrease the conformity of the measure with the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 
10.6 (Non-Conforming Measures) of Chapter 10 (Financial Services). 
1 
     
(e) Description  of  Reservation sets out the non-conforming measures to which the 
reservation applies. 
 
4.  Whenever,  in  this  Schedule,  the  supply  of  services  is  conditioned  upon  obtaining 
authorisation  from  relevant  regulatory  authorities,  it  shall  be  understood  that  the 
authorisation  process  is  non-automatic,  requiring  a  case-by-case  evaluation,  and  the 
regulatory authorities may exercise discretion over their decisions. 
 
5.  References in this Schedule to any enterprise or entity apply as well to any successor 
enterprise  or  entity,  which  shall  be  entitled  to  benefit  from  any  listing  of  a  non-
conforming measure with respect to that enterprise or entity 
   
2 
  
1. 
 
   
3 
 2. 
 
 
   
   
4 
 3. 
5 
 4.  
 
   
6 
 5. 
   
7 
 6. 
 
   
8 
 7. 
 
   
9 
 8. 
   
10 
 9.  
11 
  
10. 
        
                                                           
2 According to the Capital Market Law, capital market institutions are specified as follows: 
(a) Investment firms, 
(b) Collective investment schemes, 
(c) Independent auditors, appraisal companies and rating agencies performing activities in capital market, 
(d) Portfolio management companies 
12 
                                                                                                                                                                                      
(e) Mortgage finance corporations, 
(f) Housing finance and asset finance funds, 
(g) Asset lease companies, 
(h) Central clearing institutions, 
(i)  Central securities depositories, 
(j) Trade repositories, 
(k) Other capital market institutions, the establishment and operation principles for which are determined by 
the Capital Markets Board.   
3 According to Capital Market Law, investment funds can be established in contractual type within the fund 
rules in conformity with the fiduciary ownership principles.  
 
13 
  
11. 
14 
  
   
15 
 12. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
4 A market operator is a joint-stock company managing and/or operating exchanges, or markets under exchanges. 
16 
 13. 
 
   
17 
 14. 
 
   
18 
 15. 
 
19 
 