Annex 17-A – Code of Conduct for Arbitrators 
 
ANNEX 17-A 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ARBITRATORS  
 
Definitions 
 
1.  In this Code of Conduct: 
 
“arbitrator” means a member of an arbitration panel established under Article 17.7 
(Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel); 
 
“candidate”  means  an  individual  who  is  under  consideration  for  selection  as  an 
arbitrator  under  Article  17.7  (Composition  and  Establishment  of  the  Arbitration 
Panel); 
 
“assistant” means a person who, under the terms of appointment of an arbitrator, 
conducts research or provides assistance to the arbitrator; 
 
“proceeding”,  unless  otherwise  specified,  means  an  arbitration  panel  proceeding 
under Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement); 
 
“staff”, in respect of an arbitrator, means persons under the direction and control of 
the arbitrator, other than assistants.  
 
 
Responsibilities to the Process 
2.  Throughout the proceedings, every candidate and arbitrator shall avoid impropriety 
and the appearance of impropriety, shall be independent and impartial, shall avoid 
direct and indirect conflicts of interests and shall observe high standards of conduct so 
that the integrity and impartiality of the dispute settlement mechanism are preserved. 
Arbitrators shall not  take instructions from  any  organisation  or  government with 
regard to matters before an arbitration panel. Former arbitrators must comply with the 
obligations established in paragraphs 15, 16, 17 and 18.   
 
Disclosure Obligations 
 
3.  Prior to confirmation of his or her selection as an arbitrator under Chapter 17 (Dispute 
Settlement), a candidate shall disclose any interest, relationship or matter that is likely 
to affect his or her independence or impartiality or that might reasonably create an 
appearance of impropriety or bias in the proceeding. To this end, a candidate shall 
make all reasonable efforts to become aware of any such interests, relationships and 
matters.  
 
4.  A candidate or an arbitrator shall only communicate matters concerning actual or 
potential violations of this Code of Conduct to the Joint Committee for consideration 
by the Parties.  
1 
 Annex 17-A – Code of Conduct for Arbitrators 
 
 
5.  Once selected, an arbitrator shall continue to make all reasonable efforts to become 
aware of any interests, relationships or matters referred to in paragraph 3 and shall 
disclose  them.  The  disclosure  obligation  is  a  continuing  duty  which  requires  an 
arbitrator to disclose any such interests, relationships or matters that may arise during 
any stage of the proceeding at the earliest time the arbitrator becomes aware of it. The 
arbitrator shall disclose such interests, relationships or matters by informing the Joint 
Committee, in writing, for consideration by the Parties.  
 
Duties of Arbitrators 
 
6.  Upon  selection,  an  arbitrator  shall  perform  his  or  her  duties  thoroughly  and 
expeditiously  throughout  the  course  of  the  proceeding,  and  with  fairness  and 
diligence. 
 
7.  An arbitrator shall consider only those issues raised in the proceeding and necessary 
for a ruling and shall not delegate this duty to any other person.  
 
8.  An arbitrator shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that his or her assistants and 
staff are aware of, and comply with, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17 and 18.  
 
9.  An arbitrator shall not engage in ex parte contacts concerning the proceeding. 
 
Independence and Impartiality of Arbitrators 
 
10.  An arbitrator must be independent and impartial and avoid creating an appearance of 
impropriety or bias and shall not be influenced by self-interest, outside pressure, 
political considerations, public clamour, and loyalty to a Party or fear of criticism. 
 
11.  An arbitrator shall not, directly or indirectly, incur any obligation or accept any 
benefit  that  would  in  any  way  interfere,  or  appear  to  interfere,  with  the  proper 
performance of her or his duties.  
 
12.  An arbitrator  may not use her or his position on the arbitration panel to advance any 
personal or private interests and shall avoid actions that may create the impression 
that others are in a special position to influence her or him.  
 
13.  An  arbitrator  may  not  allow  financial,  business,  professional,  family  or  social 
relationships or responsibilities to influence her or his conduct or judgement.  
 
14.  An arbitrator shall avoid entering into any relationship or acquiring any financial 
interest that is likely to affect her or his impartiality or that might reasonably create an 
appearance of impropriety or bias. 
 
 
 
 
2 
 Annex 17-A – Code of Conduct for Arbitrators 
 
 
Obligations of Former Arbitrators 
 
15.  All former arbitrators must avoid actions that may create the appearance that they 
were biased in carrying out their duties or derived any advantage from the decision or 
ruling of the arbitration panel. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
16.  No arbitrator or former arbitrator shall at any time disclose or use any non-public 
information concerning a proceeding or acquired during a proceeding except for the 
purposes of that proceeding and shall not, in particular, disclose or use any such 
information to gain a personal advantage or an advantage for others or to affect the 
interest of others.  
 
17.  An arbitrator shall not disclose an arbitration panel determination or parts thereof 
prior to its publication in accordance with Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement).  
 
18.  An arbitrator or former arbitrator shall not at any time disclose the deliberations of an 
arbitration panel, or any arbitrator’s view regarding the deliberations. 
 
Expenses 
 
19.  Each arbitrator shall keep a record and render a final account of the time devoted to 
the procedure and of his or her expenses, as well as the time and expenses of his or 
her assistants. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 