Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
ANNEX 5-A  
ELECTRONICS 
 
  Article 1    
General Provisions 
 
1.   The Parties confirm the following shared objectives and principles: 
 
(a)  eliminating and preventing non-tariff barriers to bilateral trade; 
 
(b)  basing  their  standards,  technical  regulations  and  conformity  assessment 
procedures, wherever appropriate, on relevant international standards;  
 
(c)  eliminating  duplicative  and  unnecessarily  burdensome  conformity 
assessment procedures; and 
 
(d)  enhancing  cooperation  to  foster  development  in  their  bilateral  trade  in 
electronics. 
 
2.   This Annex shall apply only to standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures of either Party related to the safety and electromagnetic 
compatibility  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “EMC”)  of  electrical  and  electronic 
equipment, electrical household appliances and consumer electronics as defined in 
Appendix 5-A-1 (hereinafter referred to as “covered products”). 
 
Article 2 
International Standards and Standard-setting Bodies 
 
1.   The  Parties  recognise  that  the  International  Organization  for  Standardization 
(hereinafter referred to as “ISO”), the International Electrotechnical Commission 
(hereinafter referred to as “IEC”) and the International Telecommunication Union 
(hereinafter referred to as “ITU”) are the relevant international standard-setting 
bodies for EMC and safety of products covered by this Annex.1 
 
2.   Where relevant international standards established by ISO, IEC and ITU exist, the 
Parties shall use these international standards or the relevant parts of them as a 
basis for any standard, technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure, 
except for cases where such international standards or relevant parts would be an 
ineffective  or  inappropriate  means  for  the  fulfilment  of  legitimate  objectives 
pursued. In those cases, a Party shall, upon request from the other Party, identify 
the parts of the respective standard, technical regulation or conformity assessment 
procedure which substantially deviate from the relevant international standard and 
provide justification as to the reasons for the deviation. 
 
3.   Without  prejudice  to  Article  2.3  of  the  TBT  Agreement,  insofar  as  a  Party 
                                                           
1   The Parties may, by decision of the Joint Committee, agree on any new international standard-setting 
bodies which they deem relevant for the purposes of implementing this Annex. 
1 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
maintains technical regulations that  deviate from existing relevant international 
standards as referred to in paragraph 2, that Party shall review these  technical 
regulations at regular intervals, not exceeding five years, in order to assess whether 
the circumstances that gave rise to the deviation from the relevant international 
standard still exist. The outcome of these reviews shall be communicated to the 
other Party upon request. 
 
4.   The  Parties  shall  encourage  their  standard-setting  bodies  to  participate  in  the 
development of international standards in the ISO, IEC and ITU, and to consult 
within the framework of those international standard-setting bodies with a view to 
establishing common approaches. 
 
Article 3  
Innovation 
 
1.  No Party shall prevent or unduly delay the placing on its market of a product on the 
ground that it incorporates a new technology or a new feature which has not yet 
been regulated. 
 
2.  Paragraph 1 shall not prejudice the right of the importing Party, if it demonstrates 
duly  substantiated  concerns  to  the  supplier,  to  require  evidence  that  the  new 
technology or new feature concerned does not create a risk for safety or EMC or 
any other legitimate objective as listed in Article 2.2 of the TBT Agreement. 
 
Article 4 
Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1.  The Parties shall not prepare, adopt or apply conformity assessment procedures 
with a view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to trade with the 
other  Party.  In  principle,  Parties  should  avoid  requiring  mandatory  third  party 
conformity assessment to prove compliance with applicable technical regulations 
on safety  and/or EMC of  covered products,  and instead consider the use  of  a 
supplier’s declaration of conformity and/or post-market surveillance mechanisms to 
ensure that products conform with relevant standards or technical requirements. 
 
2.  Where a Party requires a positive assurance of conformity with domestic technical 
regulations on safety and/or EMC of covered products, each Party shall accept 
products on its market on the basis of one or more of the following procedures: 
 
(a)   a  supplier’s  declaration  of  conformity  where  the  intervention  of  a 
conformity assessment body or the testing of the product by a recognised 
test laboratory is not mandatory and, if testing is undertaken, such testing 
can be carried out by the manufacturer himself or a competent body of his 
choice; or 
 
(b)  a supplier’s declaration of conformity based on a test report issued by a 
Certification Body (“CB”) Testing Laboratory of the other Party under the 
CB  Scheme  of  the  IEC  System  of  Conformity  Assessment  Schemes  for 
2 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
Electrotechnical Equipment and Components (IECEE) (hereinafter referred 
to as “IECEE CB Scheme”), accompanied by a valid CB Test Certificate, in 
accordance with the rules and procedures of the IECEE CB Scheme and the 
commitments by the Parties thereunder; or 
 
(c)   a supplier’s declaration of conformity based on a test report issued by any 
testing laboratory or a certificate issued by any certification body in the 
other  Party  that  has  concluded  voluntary  arrangements  for  mutual 
acceptance  of  test  reports  or  certificates  with  one  or  more  conformity 
assessment bodies designated by the importing Party. 
 
The  choice  among  the  procedures  in  this  paragraph  shall  rest  with  the 
supplier. 
 
3.   The  supplier’s  declaration  of  conformity  shall  be  in  accordance  with  ISO/IEC 
17050.  The  Parties  shall  accept  the  supplier  as  solely  responsible  for  issuing, 
changing  or  withdrawing  the  declaration  of  conformity,  for  establishing  the 
technical documentation which shall enable the assessment of the conformity of the 
products covered with the applicable technical regulations and for affixing any 
required markings. The Parties may require that the declaration of conformity is 
dated and identifies the supplier or the supplier’s authorised representative in their 
territories,  the  person  empowered  by  the  manufacturer  or  his  authorised 
representative to sign the declaration, the products covered by the declaration, and 
the applied technical regulations to which conformity is declared. 
 
4.   In addition to paragraphs 1 to 3, a Party shall not require any form of registration of 
products or of suppliers that may prevent or otherwise delay the placing on the 
market of products that comply with the Party’s technical regulations. Insofar as a 
Party  reviews  the  supplier’s  declaration,  the  review  shall  be  solely  limited  to 
verifying, on the basis of the documentation submitted, that the test has been done 
in  accordance  with  the  Party’s  relevant  technical  regulations  and  that  the 
information contained in the documentation is complete. Any such review shall not 
cause undue delay for the placing of the products on the Party’s market and the 
declaration shall be accepted, without exceptions, if the products comply with the 
Party’s technical regulations and the documentation submitted is complete. In the 
event that a declaration is rejected, the Party shall communicate its decision to the 
supplier,  together  with  an  explanation  of  the  grounds  for  the  rejection.  Upon 
request  of  the  supplier,  the  Party  shall  provide  information  or  guidance,  as 
appropriate, on how the shortcomings can be rectified, as well as an explanation of 
possibilities to appeal the decision. 
 
Article 5  
Safeguard Measures 
 
Notwithstanding  Article  4  (Conformity  Assessment  Procedures),  either  Party  may 
introduce requirements for mandatory third party testing or certification for EMC or safety 
of covered products, or introduce administrative procedures for approving or reviewing 
test reports, for particular covered products under the following conditions: 
3 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
 
(a)   there exist compelling reasons related to the protection of human health or 
safety  that  justify  the  introduction  of  such  requirements  or  procedures, 
supported by substantiated technical or scientific information; 
 
(b)   any such requirements or procedures  are  not more trade-restrictive  than 
necessary to fulfil the Party’s legitimate objective, taking  account of the 
risks that non-fulfilment would create; and 
 
(c)   the Party could not have reasonably foreseen the need for introducing any 
such  requirements  or  procedures  at  the  time  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement. 
 
Without  prejudice  to  Article  2.10  of  the  TBT  Agreement,  before  introducing  the 
requirements  or  procedures,  the  Party  shall  notify  the  other  Party  and,  following 
consultations, take the comments of the other Party into account, to the greatest extent 
possible, in devising any such requirements or procedures. Any requirements introduced 
shall, to the greatest extent possible, be in compliance with this Annex. Once adopted, any 
requirement  or  procedure  introduced  shall  be  regularly  reviewed  and  repealed  if  the 
reasons for its introduction no longer exist. 
 
Article 6  
Exceptions  
 
1.   Singapore shall only require a positive assurance of conformity with its mandatory 
safety  and/or  EMC  requirements  in  the  form  of  third  party  certification  for  the 
products listed in Appendix 5-A-2.  
 
2.   Singapore may undertake reviews of its Consumer Protection (Safety Requirements) 
Registration Scheme in line with Annex 4-A of the Free Trade Agreement between 
the European Union and the Republic of Singapore. Any changes to the Consumer 
Protection (Safety Requirements) Registration Scheme a result of such reviews, and 
any resulting modifications made to Appendix 5-A-2, shall be notified by Singapore 
to  Turkey  promptly  through  the  Joint  Committee.  For  products,  which  will  be 
excluded  from  the  Singapore’s  Consumer  Protection  (Safety  Requirements) 
Registration Scheme as a result of such reviews, Singapore shall not require a positive 
assurance of conformity with its mandatory safety and/or EMC requirements in the 
form of third party certification. 
 
3.   Insofar as Singapore continues to require positive assurance of conformity with its 
mandatory safety and/or EMC requirements in the form of third party certification 
for  covered  products,  Singapore  shall  accept  a  certificate  of  conformity  to  its 
technical regulations issued by a conformity assessment body in Turkey that has 
been designated by Singapore.2 Singapore shall also ensure that the conformity 
assessment bodies designated by Singapore accept, for the purposes of issuing such 
                                                           
2   Singapore shall comply with this requirement within three years of the entry into force of this 
Agreement 
4 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
certification, test reports issued: 
 
(a)   by  one  of  the  Recognised  CB  Testing  Laboratories  or  Recognised  CB 
Manufacturer’s Testing Laboratories of Turkey in accordance with the rules 
and procedures of the  IECEE CB Scheme  and the  commitments of the 
Parties thereunder; 
 
(b)   in  accordance  with  relevant  international  standards,  guides  and 
recommendations (including ISO/IEC 17025), by any testing laboratory of 
Turkey  that  has  been  accredited  by  an  accreditation  body  which  is  a 
signatory  to  the  Mutual  Recognition  Arrangement  of  the  International 
Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation or one of its regional bodies’ mutual 
recognition agreements to which Singapore is a Party; or 
 
(c)   by  any  testing  laboratory  in  Turkey  that  has  concluded  voluntary 
arrangements  for  mutual  acceptance  of  test  reports  with  one  or  more 
conformity assessment bodies designated by Singapore. 
   
Article 7 
 Joint Cooperation 
 
1.   The  Parties  shall  closely  cooperate  to  promote  common  understanding  on 
regulatory  issues  and  consider  any  request  of  the  other  Party  regarding  the 
implementation of this Annex. 
2.   This cooperation shall take place within the framework of the Joint Committee. 
   
5 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
APPENDIX 5-A-1 
SCOPE 
 
1.   Annex 5-A shall cover those products listed in paragraph 2 of Article 1 (General 
Provisions) of Annex 5-A which: 
 
(a)  in the case of Turkey’s obligations, fall, at the date of signature of this 
Agreement,  within  the  scope  of  corresponding  Turkish  legislation  to 
Directive 2006/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 
December 2006 on the harmonisation of the laws of Member States relating 
to  electrical  equipment  designed  for  use  within  certain  voltage  limits 
(codified version), or Directive 2004/108/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on the approximation of the laws 
of  the  Member  States  relating  to  electromagnetic  compatibility  and 
repealing 89/336/EEC, or of the provisions on safety or electromagnetic 
compatibility of Directive 1999/5/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council  of  9  March  1999  (codified  version)  on  radio  equipment  and 
telecommunications terminal equipment and the mutual recognition of their 
conformity. 
 
For  products  under  the  scope  of  corresponding  Turkish  legislation  to 
Directive  1999/5/EC,  Turkey  shall  be  able  to  require  additional 
requirements,  other  than  safety  and  EMC,  in  accordance  with  the 
corresponding provision to Article 3 of that Directive. 
 
Where a supplier has not applied or has only applied in part the harmonised 
standards referred to in the relevant provision of the corresponding Turkish 
legislation  to  paragraph  1  of  Article  5  of  Directive  1999/5/EC,  radio 
equipment within the scope of the relevant provision of the corresponding 
Turkish legislation to paragraph 5 of Article 10 of Directive 1999/5/EC 
shall  be  subject  to  the  procedures  described  in  either  of  corresponding 
Annexes to Annexes IV or V of Directive 1999/5/EC, at the choice of the 
supplier.  Where  the  supplier’s  declaration  of  conformity  has  to  be 
accompanied by test reports, the supplier may use the procedures described 
in  subparagraphs  2(b)  and  2(c)  of  Article  4  (Conformity  Assessment 
Procedures) of Annex 5-A; 
and; 
 
(b)   in the case of Singapore’s obligations, fall, at the date of signature of this 
Agreement, within the scope of the Consumer Protection (Consumer Goods 
Safety Requirements) Regulations 2011, the Consumer Protection (Safety 
Requirements) Regulations 2004, the Telecommunications Act, Cap. 323 
and the Telecommunications (Dealers) Regulations 2004. 
 
For  products  under  the  Telecommunications  Act,  Cap.  323  and  the 
Telecommunications (Dealers) Regulations 2004, Singapore shall be able to 
require additional requirements, other than safety and EMC. 
6 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
 
2.   The Parties understand that the products covered by the domestic laws listed in this 
Appendix, which include all the products to which Annex 5-A applies, are intended 
to cover the universe of electronics products. It is understood that in case a product 
is not covered by Annex 5-A for a Party but is covered for the other Party, or at the 
time of signature of this Agreement or subsequently, is subject to mandatory third 
party certification by a Party but not by the other Party, the other Party can subject 
such product to a similar treatment as may be necessary for the protection of human 
health and safety. Before such measures are implemented, the Party wishing to 
introduce them shall notify the other Party of its intentions and provide for a period 
of three months for consultations. 
   
7 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
APPENDIX 5-A-2 
PRODUCT CATEGORIES 
 
Cooking range intended for household use namely a device for cooking and includes 
separate  stationary  ovens  and  grills,  cooking  table  cookers,  hob  elements,  grills  and 
griddles which form part of cooking ranges, and ovens and grills for installation in walls 
except a cooking range having a mass of less than 18 kg. 
 
Hairdryer namely an electrically operated appliance intended to be used for the drying of 
hair of persons and incorporating heating elements. 
 
High-fidelity  set  namely  an  electronic  device  for  reproduction  of  sounds,  with  little 
distortion, connected to the supply mains as the only energy source intended for domestic 
and similar general indoor use with a rated supply voltage not exceeding 250 volts rms. 
 
Audio  product  (other  than  a  High-fidelity  set)  namely  an  electronic  device  for  the 
reproduction of sound, connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly. 
 
Iron  namely  an  electrically  operated  appliance  with  a  heated  soleplate  for  ironing  of 
clothes, for household and similar purposes. 
 
Kettle  namely  an  electrically  operated  household  appliance  for  heating  of  water  for 
consumption, having a rated capacity not exceeding 10 litres. 
 
Microwave oven namely an electrically operated appliance for heating food and beverages 
using electromagnetic energy (microwaves) in one or more of the I.S.M. frequency bands 
between 300 MHz and 30 GHz and intended for household use. These appliances may also 
incorporate a browning function. 
 
Rice cooker namely an electrically operated household appliance for cooking rice. 
 
Refrigerator namely a self-contained assembly consisting of a thermally insulated cabinet 
for the storage and preservation of foodstuffs above 0°C (32°F) and of a refrigerating unit 
operating on the vapour compression principle and arranged to extract heat from within the 
cabinet, whether or not with one or more freezer compartments. 
 
Room air-conditioner namely a self-contained assembly designed as a unit, primarily for 
mounting in a window or through the wall or as a console. It is designed primarily to 
provide free delivery of conditioned air to an enclosed space, room or zone (conditioned 
space). It includes a prime source of refrigeration for cooling and dehumidification and 
means for the circulation and the cleaning of air, and a drain arrangement for collecting or 
disposing  any  condensate.  It  may  also  include  means  for  humidifying,  ventilating  or 
exhausting air. 
 
Table or standing fan namely an electrically operated appliance for agitating the air, and 
their  associated  regulator  intended  for  use  on  single-phase  a.c.  and  d.c.  circuits  not 
exceeding 250 volts and intended for household use and similar purposes. 
8 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
Television or video display unit namely an electronic device for receiving and displaying 
information from a transmitting station or local source, connected to the supply mains, 
either directly or indirectly, and intended for domestic and similar general indoor use, 
other than a cathode ray tube television receiver. 
 
Vacuum cleaner namely a machine which removes dirt and dust by the suction produced 
by a motor-driven air pump and intended for household use and similar purposes. 
 
Washing machine namely an electrically operated appliance intended for washing clothes 
and textiles (whether or not with means for water heating), for water extraction or for 
drying. 
 
Table lamp or standing lamp namely a portable general purpose luminaire, other than 
handlamps, for use with tungsten filament, tubular fluorescent and other discharge lamps 
connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly. 
 
Toaster,  grill,  roaster,  hotplate  and  similar  appliances  namely  electric  appliances 
connected to the supply mains, which make use of direct or indirect (e.g. heated medium 
such as air and cooking oil) heat for food preparation and intended for household use. 
 
Wall fan or ceiling fan namely an electric fan and its associated regulator intended for 
mounting on the wall or ceiling and for use on a single phase a.c. and d.c. circuit not 
exceeding 250 volts for household and similar purposes. 
 
Adaptor namely a device designed to supply a.c. or d.c. power from an a.c. or d.c. source, 
either  by  itself  or  as  part  of  an  accessory,  for  applications  such  as  computers, 
telecommunication equipment, home entertainment equipment or toys. 
 
Coffee maker, slow cooker, steam boat and similar appliances namely electrically operated 
appliances that heats up water to high temperatures in the course of food and beverage 
preparation. 
 
Laser disc set namely an electronic device for video recording and play-back or for play-
back only, connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly, and intended for 
domestic and similar general indoor use, other than a laser disc (LD) player or video. 
 
Mixer, blender, mincer and similar appliances namely electrically operated machines for 
food and beverage preparation and intended for household use. 
 
Air cooler namely an electrically operated appliance for agitating the air equipped to use 
water as a cooling medium and its associated regulator intended for use on single phase 
a.c. and d.c. circuits not exceeding 250 volts for household and similar purposes. 
 
Home computer system (inclusive of monitor, printer, speaker and other mains operated 
accessories) namely a microprocessor based data system with compact, local computing 
and calculating power on high definition graphics and with flexible data communication 
interfacing. 
9 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
Decorative lighting fixture namely lighting chains fitted with a series or parallel connected 
incandescent lamps for use either indoors or outdoors on supply voltages not exceeding 
250 volts. 
 
3-pin rectangular type 13-amp plug namely a portable fused device having projecting pins 
designed  to  engage  with  the  contacts  of  a  corresponding  socket-outlet.  A  plug  also 
incorporates means for the electrical connection and the mechanical retention of a suitable 
flexible cord. 
 
Fuse (13-amp or less) for use in a plug namely a device that, by the fusion of one or more 
of its specially designed and proportioned components, opens the circuit in which it is 
inserted and breaks the current when this exceeds a given value for a sufficient time. The 
fuse comprises all the parts that form the complete device. 
 
3-pin round type 15-amp plug namely a device carrying 3 metallic plug pins substantially 
cylindrical in form intended for engagements with corresponding socket contacts arranged 
for connection to a suitable flexible cord. 
 
Multi-way adaptor namely an adaptor having more than one set of socket contacts (the 
socket contacts may or may not be of the same type or rating as the plug pin portion). 
 
3-pin  portable  socket-outlet  namely  an  accessory  having  a  set  of  3  socket-contacts 
designed to engage with the pins of  a  corresponding plug  and having means  for the 
electrical connection of appropriate cables or flexible cords, for connection to, or integral 
with, a flexible cord, and which can be easily moved from one place to another while 
connected to the supply. 
 
Portable cable reel namely a device comprising a flexible cable or cord attached to a reel 
so constructed that the flexible cable may be completely wound onto the reel, and provided 
with a plug and one or more socket outlets. 
 
Instantaneous electric water heater namely an electrically operated stationary appliance for 
household and similar purposes and intended for heating water below boiling temperature 
with its rated voltage not more than 250 V for single-phase appliances and 480 V for other 
appliances. 
 
Mains pressure electric storage water heater, namely, an electrically operated stationary 
appliance for household and similar purposes and intended for storing and heating water 
below boiling temperature with its rated voltage not more than 250 V for single-phase 
appliances and 480 V for other appliances. 
 
Residual Current Circuit Breaker (RCCB) namely a device intended to protect persons 
against indirect contact, the exposed conductive parts of the installation being connected to 
an appropriate earth electrode. 
 
3-pin 13-Ampere Socket-outlet namely a 13A shuttered socket-outlet in single or multiple 
arrangements with associated controlling switches, for flush mounting in suitable box or 
10 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
for surface or panel mounting. The socket-outlet is suitable for the connection of portable 
appliances, sound-vision equipment, luminaries, etc., in a.c.  circuits  only operating at 
voltage not exceeding 250 V r.m.s at 50 Hz. 
 
3-pin round type 15-ampere Socket-outlet namely a 15A shuttered socket-outlet which 
contains switch connected between the current carrying contact of the socket-outlet and 
the relevant supply terminal for flush mounting in suitable box or for surface or panel 
mounting. The socket-outlet is suitable for the connection of electrical appliances in a.c. 
circuits only operating at voltage not exceeding 250 V r.m.s at 50 Hz. 
 
Domestic electric wall switch namely a manually operated general purpose switch for a.c. 
only with a rated voltage not exceeding 440V and a rated current not exceeding 63A, 
intended  for  household  and  similar  fixed-electrical  installations,  either  indoors  or 
outdoors. 
 
Ballast for tubular fluorescent lamp namely a unit inserted between the supply and one or 
more fluorescent lamps which, by means of inductance, capacitance, or a combination of 
inductance and capacitance or electronic circuitry, serves mainly to limit the current of the 
lamp(s) to the required value. 
 
Isolating Transformer for downlight fitting namely a transformer with input and output 
windings  of  which  are  electrically  separated  to  limit  hazards  due  to  accidental 
simultaneous contact with earth and live parts or metal parts which may become live in the 
event of an insulation failure. 
 
 
   
11 
 Annex 5-A – Electronics 
 
APPENDIX 5-A-3 
DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of Annex 5-A, the following definitions shall apply: 
 
“safety  of  electrical  equipment”  means  that  equipment,  having  been  constructed  in 
accordance with good engineering practice in safety matters, does not endanger the safety 
of persons, domestic animals or property when properly installed, maintained and used in 
applications for which it was made; 
 
“electromagnetic  compatibility”  means  that  equipment  shall  be  designed  and 
manufactured, having regard to the state of the art, so as to ensure that: 
 
(a)   the electromagnetic disturbance generated does not exceed the level above which 
radio and telecommunications equipment or other equipment cannot operate as intended; 
and 
 
(b)   it has a level of immunity to the electromagnetic disturbance to be expected in its 
intended use which allows it to operate without unacceptable degradation of its intended 
use; 
 
“electromagnetic  disturbance”  means  any  electromagnetic  phenomenon  which  may 
degrade  the  performance  of  equipment,  including  electromagnetic  noise,  an  unwanted 
signal or a change in the propagation medium itself; 
 
“immunity” means the ability of equipment to perform as intended without degradation in 
the presence of an electromagnetic disturbance; 
 
“declaration of conformity” means issuance of a statement, based on a decision following 
review, that fulfilment of specified requirements has been demonstrated; 
 
“supplier” means manufacturer, or his or her authorised representative in the territory of 
the importing Party. Where neither is present in the territory of the importing Party, the 
responsibility for the presentation of the supplier’s declaration shall rest with the importer; 
 
“testing laboratory” means a conformity assessment body that performs testing services 
and has received attestation conveying formal demonstration of its competence to carry 
out these specific tasks;  
 
The  definitions  of  “standard”,  “technical  regulation”  and  “conformity  assessment 
procedures” are those provided in Annex I of the TBT Agreement. 
 
12 
 