Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
CHAPTER 13 
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
 
Article 13.1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
“commercial goods or services” means goods or services of a type generally sold or offered 
for sale in the commercial marketplace to, and customarily purchased by, non-governmental 
buyers for non-governmental purposes; 
 
“construction service” means a service that has as its objective the realisation by whatever 
means of civil or building works, based on Division 51 of the United Nations Provisional 
Central Product Classification (CPC); 
 
“electronic auction” means an iterative process that involves the use of electronic means for 
the presentation by suppliers of either new prices, or new values for quantifiable non-price 
elements of the tender related to the evaluation criteria, or both, resulting in a ranking or 
re-ranking of tenders; 
 
“in  writing”  or  “written”  means  any  worded  or  numbered  expression  that  can  be  read, 
reproduced and later communicated. It may include electronically transmitted and stored 
information; 
 
“limited tendering” means a procurement method whereby the procuring entity contacts a 
supplier or suppliers of its choice; 
 
“measure” means any law, regulation, procedure, administrative guidance or practice, or any 
action of a procuring entity relating to a covered procurement; 
 
“multi-use list” means a list of suppliers that a procuring entity has determined satisfy the 
conditions for participation in that list, and that the procuring entity intends to use more than 
once; 
 
“notice of intended procurement” means a notice published by a procuring entity inviting 
interested suppliers to submit a request for participation, a tender, or both; 
 
 “offsets” means any condition or undertaking that encourages local development or improves 
a Party’s balance-of-payments accounts, such as the use of domestic content, the licensing of 
technology, investment, counter-trade and similar action or requirement; 
 
“open tendering” means a procurement method whereby all interested suppliers may submit a 
tender; 
 
 
13-1 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
“privatised” means an entity that has been reconstituted from a procuring entity or part 
thereof to be a legal person acting in accordance with commercial considerations in the 
procurement of goods or services and that is no longer entitled to exercise governmental 
authority, even though the government possesses holdings thereof or appoints members of the 
Board of Directors thereto; 
 
For  greater  certainty,  where  the  government  possesses  holdings  thereof  or  appoints  a 
government official to the Board of Directors of a privatised entity, the entity is deemed to 
act in accordance with commercial considerations in its purchase of goods or services, such 
as with regard to the availability, price and quality of the goods or services, if the government 
or the Board of Directors so appointed does not, directly or indirectly, influence or direct the 
decisions of the Board in the entity’s procurement of goods or services; 
 
“procuring  entity”  means  an  entity  covered  under  a  Party’s  Annexes 13-A  (Central 
Entities), 13-B (Sub-Central Entities) or 13-C (Other Entities); 
 
“qualified supplier” means a supplier that a procuring entity recognises as having satisfied the 
conditions for participation; 
 
“selective tendering” means a procurement method whereby only qualified suppliers are 
invited by the procuring entity to submit a tender; 
 
“services” includes construction services, unless otherwise specified; 
 
“standard” means a document approved by a recognised body that provides for common and 
repeated use, rules, guidelines or characteristics for goods or services, or related processes 
and production methods, with which compliance is not mandatory. It may also include or deal 
exclusively with terminology, symbols, packaging, marking or labelling requirements as they 
apply to a good, service, process or production method; 
 
“supplier” means a person or group of persons that provides or could provide goods or 
services; 
 
“technical specification” means a tendering requirement that: 
 
(a)  lays down the characteristics of goods or services to be procured, including 
quality, performance, safety and dimensions, or the processes and methods for 
their production or provision; or 
 
(b)  addresses  terminology,  symbols,  packaging,  marking  or  labelling 
requirements, as they apply to a good or service. 
 
Article 13.2 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.   This Chapter shall apply to any measure regarding covered procurement, whether or 
not it is conducted exclusively or partially by electronic means. 
13-2 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
2.   For  the  purposes  of  this  Chapter,  covered  procurement  means  procurement  for 
governmental purposes: 
 
(a)  of goods, services, or any combination thereof:  
 
(i)  as specified in each Party’s Annexes; and  
 
(ii)  not procured with a view to commercial sale or resale, or for use in the 
production  or  supply  of  goods  or  services  for  commercial  sale  or 
resale; 
 
(b)   by  any  contractual  means,  including:  purchase;  lease;  and  rental  or  hire 
purchase, with or without an option to buy; and Public Private Partnership 
contracts as specified in Annex 13-I (Public Private Partnerships); 
 
(c)  for which the value, as estimated in accordance with paragraphs 6 to 8, equals 
or exceeds the relevant threshold specified in a Party’s Annexes at the time of 
publication of a notice in accordance with Article 13.7 (Notices); 
 
(d)   by a procuring entity; and 
 
(e)   that is otherwise not excluded from coverage in paragraph 3 or in a Party’s 
Annexes. 
 
3.   Except where provided otherwise in a Party’s Annexes, this Chapter shall not apply 
to: 
 
(a)  the  acquisition  or  rental  of  land,  existing  buildings  or  other  immovable 
property or the rights thereon; 
 
(b)  non-contractual agreements or any form of assistance that a Party provides, 
including cooperative agreements, grants, loans, equity infusions, guarantees 
and fiscal incentives; 
 
(c)   the  procurement  or  acquisition  of  fiscal  agency  or  depository  services, 
liquidation and management services for regulated financial institutions or 
services  related  to  the  sale,  redemption  and  distribution  of  public  debt, 
including loans and government bonds, notes and other securities; 
 
(d)  public employment contracts; 
 
(e)  procurement conducted: 
 
(i)   for the specific purpose of providing international assistance, including 
development aid; 
 
13-3 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
(ii)  under  the  particular  procedure  or  condition  of  an  international 
agreement relating to the stationing of troops or relating to the joint 
implementation by the signatory countries of a project; or 
 
(iii)  under  the  particular  procedure  or  condition  of  an  international 
organisation,  or  funded  by  international  grants,  loans  or  other 
assistance  where  the  applicable  procedure  or  condition  would  be 
inconsistent with this Chapter. 
 
4.  Each Party shall specify the following information in its Annexes to this Chapter: 
 
(a)  in  Annex  13-A  (Central  Entities),  the  central  government  entities  whose 
procurement is covered by this Chapter; 
 
(b)  in  Annex  13-B  (Sub-central  Entities),  the  sub-central  government  entities 
whose procurement is covered by this Chapter; 
 
(c)  in  Annex  13-C  (Other  Entities),  all  other  entities  whose  procurement  is 
covered by this Chapter; 
 
(d)  in Annex 13-D (Goods), the goods covered by this Chapter; 
 
(e)  in  Annex  13-E  (Services),  the  services,  other  than  construction  services, 
covered by this Chapter; 
 
(f)  in Annex 13-F (Construction Services), the construction services covered by 
this Chapter;   
 
(g)  in Annex 13-G (General Notes and Derogations), any General Notes; 
 
(h)   in Annex 13-H (Means of Publication), means of publications; and 
 
(i)  in  Annex  13-I  (Public  Private  Partnerships),  Public  Private  Partnership 
contracts. 
 
5.  Where a procuring entity, in the context of covered procurement, requires persons not 
covered  under  a  Party’s  Annexes  to  procure  in  accordance  with  particular 
requirements, Article 13.4 (General Principles) shall apply mutatis mutandis to such 
requirements. 
 
Valuation 
 
6.  In estimating the value of a procurement for the purpose of ascertaining whether it is a 
covered procurement, a procuring entity shall: 
 
(a)  neither divide a procurement into separate procurements nor select or use a 
particular valuation method for estimating the value of a procurement with the 
13-4 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
intention  of  totally  or  partially  excluding  it  from  the  application  of  this 
Chapter; and 
 
(b)  include the estimated maximum total value of the procurement over its entire 
duration, whether awarded to one or more suppliers, taking into account all 
forms of remuneration, including: 
 
(i)  premiums, fees, commissions and interest; and 
 
(ii)  where the procurement provides for the possibility of options, the total 
value of such options. 
 
7.  Where an individual requirement for a procurement results in the award of more than 
one contract, or in the award of contracts in separate parts (hereinafter referred to as 
“recurring contracts”), the calculation of the estimated maximum total value shall be 
based on: 
 
(a)  the value of recurring contracts of the same type of good or service awarded 
during the preceding 12 months or the procuring entity’s preceding fiscal year, 
adjusted,  where  possible,  to  take  into  account  anticipated  changes  in  the 
quantity or value of the good or service being procured over the following 12 
months; or 
 
(b)  the estimated value of recurring contracts of the same type of good or service 
to be awarded during the 12 months following the initial contract award or the 
procuring entity’s fiscal year. 
 
8.  In the case of procurement by lease, rental or hire purchase of goods or services, or 
procurement for which a total price is not specified, the basis for valuation shall be: 
 
(a)  in the case of a fixed-term contract: 
 
(i)  where the term of the contract is 12 months or less, the total estimated 
maximum value for its duration; or 
 
(ii)  where the term of the contract exceeds 12 months, the total estimated 
maximum value, including any estimated residual value; 
 
(b)  where  the  contract  is  for  an  indefinite  period,  the  estimated  monthly 
installment multiplied by 48; and 
 
(c)  where it is not certain whether the contract is to be a fixed-term contract, 
subparagraph (b) shall be used. 
 
Article 13.3 
Security and General Exceptions 
 
13-5 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
1.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any Party from taking any action 
or not disclosing any information that it considers necessary for the protection of its 
essential security interests relating to the procurement of arms, ammunition or war 
materials,  or  to  procurement  indispensable  for  national  security  or  for  national 
defence purposes. 
 
2.   Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner that would 
constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between Parties where 
the same conditions prevail or a disguised restriction on international trade, nothing in 
this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any Party from imposing or enforcing 
measures: 
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals, order or safety; 
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to protect intellectual property; or 
 
(d)  relating  to  goods  or  services  of  persons  with  disabilities,  philanthropic 
institutions or prison labour. 
 
Article 13.4 
General Principles 
 
National Treatment and Non-Discrimination 
 
1.  With respect to any measure regarding covered procurement, each Party, including its 
procuring entities, shall accord immediately and unconditionally to the goods and 
services of the other Party and to the suppliers of the other Party, treatment no less 
favourable than the treatment the Party, including its procuring entities, accords to 
domestic goods, services and suppliers. 
 
2.  With respect to any measure regarding covered procurement, a Party, including its 
procuring entities, shall not: 
 
(a)  treat a locally established supplier of the other Party less favourably than 
another locally established supplier on the basis of degree of foreign affiliation 
or ownership; or 
 
(b)  discriminate against a locally established supplier on the basis that the goods 
or services offered by that supplier for a particular procurement are goods or 
services of the other Party. 
 
Use of Electronic Means 
 
3.  When conducting covered procurement by electronic means, a procuring entity shall: 
 
13-6 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
(a)  ensure  that  the  procurement  is  conducted  using  information  technology 
systems and software, including those related to authentication and encryption 
of  information,  that  are  generally  available  and  interoperable  with  other 
generally available information technology systems and software; and 
 
(b)  maintain mechanisms that ensure the integrity of requests for participation and 
tenders, including establishment of the time of receipt and the prevention of 
inappropriate access. 
 
Conduct of Procurement 
 
4.  A procuring entity shall conduct covered procurement in a transparent and impartial 
manner that: 
 
(a)   is  consistent  with  this  Chapter,  using  methods  such  as  open  tendering, 
selective tendering and limited tendering;  
 
(b)  avoids conflicts of interest; and 
 
(c)  prevents corrupt practices. 
 
Rules of Origin 
 
5.  For the sole purpose of determining customs duties applicable to goods imported for 
purposes of government procurement, the Parties shall apply the same rules of origin 
that are used to determine customs duties applicable to imports of goods for other 
purposes.  
 
Measures Not Specific to Procurement 
 
6.  Paragraphs 1  and 2 shall not  apply to:  customs duties and  charges  of any  kind 
imposed on, or in connection with, importation; the method of levying such duties and 
charges;  other  import  regulations  or  formalities  and  measures  affecting  trade  in 
services other than measures governing covered procurement. 
 
Article 13.5 
Industry Development 
 
 
1.  Subject  to  paragraphs  2,  3,  and  4,  considering  the  development  needs  and 
circumstances of the Parties, and notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 13.4 
(General Principles), Turkey may: 
 
(a)  provide a price preference to the suppliers of domestic goods and domestic 
suppliers of services; and 
 
(b)  impose or enforce offsets. 
13-7 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
     
 
2.  With effect from 10 years after the entry into force of this Agreement, Turkey shall 
apply paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 13.4 (General Principles) in relation to: 
  
(a)  suppliers  of  Singapore-originating  goods,  as  defined  by  Protocol  1 
(Concerning  the  Definition  of  the  Concept  of  “Originating  Products”  and 
Methods of Administrative Co-operation); and 
 
(b)  service suppliers of Singapore which have substantive business operations in 
the territory of Singapore, as defined by Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services). 
 
3.   Turkey shall not increase the maximum margin of price preference in force at the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement.  
   
4.  In the event that Turkey implicitly or explicitly, extends more favourable treatment to 
any third party or parties, with regard to price preference or offsets in any international 
agreement, or ceases to provide for price preference or offsets within its domestic 
legislation after the entry into force of this Agreement, Turkey shall automatically 
extend the same benefit to Singapore. 
 
 
 
Article 13.6 
Information on the Procurement System 
 
1.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  promptly publish any law, regulation, judicial decision, administrative ruling 
of general application, standard contract clause mandated by law or regulation 
and  incorporated  by  reference  in  notices  or  tender  documentation  and 
procedure regarding covered procurement, and any modifications thereof, in 
an  officially  designated  electronic  or  paper  medium  that  is  widely 
disseminated and remains readily accessible to the public; and  
 
(b)  provide an explanation thereof to the other Party, on request.  
 
2.  Each Party shall list in Annex 13-H (Means of Publication): 
 
(a)  the electronic or paper media in which the Party publishes the information 
described in paragraph 1; 
 
(b)  the electronic or paper media in which the Party publishes the notices required 
by  Article  13.7  (Notices),  paragraph  8  of  Article  13.9  (Qualification  of 
Suppliers), and paragraph 2 of Article 13.16 (Transparency of Procurement 
Information).  
13-8 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
3.  Each Party shall promptly notify the other Party any modification to the Party’s 
information listed in Annex 13-H (Means of Publication). 
 
Article 13.7 
Notices 
 
Notice of Intended Procurement 
 
1.  For each covered procurement, a procuring entity shall publish a notice of intended 
procurement in the appropriate paper or electronic medium listed in Annex 13-H 
(Means  of  Publication),  except  in  the  circumstances  described  in  Article 13.13 
(Limited Tendering). Such medium shall be widely disseminated and such notice shall 
remain readily accessible to the public, at least until the expiration of the time-period 
indicated in the notice.   
 
Parties, including their procurement entities covered under Annex 13-B (Sub-central 
Entities)  or  13-C  (Other  Entities),  are  encouraged  to  publish  their  notices  by 
electronic means and make them accessible free of charge through a single point of 
access.  
 
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each notice of intended procurement 
shall include: 
 
(a)  the name and address of the procuring entity and other information necessary 
to contact the procuring entity and obtain all relevant documents relating to the 
procurement, and their cost and terms of payment, if any; 
 
(b)  a description of the procurement, including the nature and the quantity of the 
goods or services to be procured or, where the quantity is not known, the 
estimated quantity; 
 
(c)  for recurring contracts, an estimate, if possible, of the timing of subsequent 
notices of intended procurement; 
 
 (d)  a description of options, if any; 
 
(e)  the time-frame for delivery of goods or services or the duration of the contract; 
 
(f)  the  procurement  method  that  will  be  used  and  whether  it  will  involve 
negotiation or electronic auction; 
 
(g)  where applicable, the address and any final date for the submission of requests 
for participation in the procurement; 
 
(h)  the address and the final date for the submission of tenders; 
 
13-9 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
(i)  the language or languages in which tenders or requests for participation may 
be submitted, if they may be submitted in a language other than an official 
language of the Party of the procuring entity; 
 
(j)  a list and brief description of any conditions for participation of suppliers, 
including  any  requirements  for  specific  documents  or  certifications  to  be 
provided by suppliers in connection therewith, unless such requirements are 
included  in  tender  documentation  that  is  made  available  to  all  interested 
suppliers at the same time as the notice of intended procurement; and 
 
(k)  where, pursuant to Article 13.9 (Qualification of Suppliers), a procuring entity 
intends to select a limited number of qualified suppliers to be invited to tender, 
the  criteria  that  will  be  used  to  select  them  and,  where  applicable,  any 
limitation on the number of suppliers that will be permitted to tender.   
 
Summary Notice 
 
3.  For each case of intended procurement, a procuring entity shall publish a summary 
notice that is readily accessible, at the same time as the publication of the notice of 
intended  procurement  in  English.  The  summary  notice  shall  contain  at  least  the 
following information: 
 
(a)  the subject-matter of the procurement; 
 
(b)  the final date for the submission of tenders or, where applicable, any final date 
for the submission of requests for participation in the procurement or for 
inclusion on a multi-use list; and 
 
(c)  the  address  from  which  documents  relating  to  the  procurement  may  be 
requested. 
 
Notice of Planned Procurement 
 
4.  Procuring entities are encouraged to publish in the appropriate paper or electronic 
medium listed in Annex 13-H (Means of Publication) as early as possible in each 
fiscal year a notice regarding their future procurement plans (hereinafter referred to as 
“notice of planned procurement”). The notice of planned procurement should include 
the subject-matter of the procurement and the planned date or indicative period of the 
publication of the notice of intended procurement.   
   
5.  A procuring entity covered under Annex 13-B (Sub-Central Entities) or Annex 13-C 
(Other Entities) may use a notice of planned procurement as a notice of intended 
procurement provided that the notice of planned procurement includes as much of the 
information referred to in paragraph 2 as is available to the entity and a statement that 
interested suppliers should express their interest in the procurement to the procuring 
entity. 
 
13-10 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
Article 13.8 
Conditions for Participation 
 
1.  A procuring entity shall limit any conditions for participation in a procurement to 
those that are essential to ensure that a supplier has the legal and financial capacities 
and the commercial and technical abilities to undertake the relevant procurement. 
 
2.  In establishing the conditions for participation, a procuring entity: 
 
(a)  shall not impose the condition that, in order for a supplier to participate in a 
procurement, the supplier has previously been awarded one or more contracts 
by a procuring entity of that Party; and 
 
(b)  may require relevant prior experience where essential to meet the requirements 
of the procurement. 
 
3.  In assessing whether a supplier satisfies the conditions for participation, a procuring 
entity: 
 
(a)  shall evaluate the financial capacity and the commercial and technical abilities 
of a supplier on the basis of that supplier’s business activities both inside and 
outside the territory of the Party of the procuring entity; and 
 
(b)  shall  base  its  evaluation  on  the  conditions  that  the  procuring  entity  has 
specified in advance in notices or tender documentation. 
 
4.  Where there is supporting evidence, a Party, including its procuring entities, may 
exclude a supplier on grounds such as: 
 
(a)  bankruptcy; 
 
(b)  false declarations; 
 
(c)  significant  or  persistent  deficiencies  in  performance  of  any  substantive 
requirement or obligation under a prior contract or contracts;  
 
(d)  final judgments in respect of serious crimes or other serious offences; 
 
(e)  professional misconduct or acts or omissions that adversely reflect on the 
commercial integrity of the supplier; or 
 
(f)  failure to pay taxes. 
 
Article 13.9 
Qualification of Suppliers 
 
Registration Systems and Qualification Procedures 
13-11 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
1.  A Party, including its procuring entities, may maintain a supplier registration system 
under  which  interested  suppliers  are  required  to  register  and  provide  certain 
information. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that: 
 
(a)  its procuring entities make efforts to minimise differences in their qualification 
procedures; and 
 
(b)  where its procuring entities maintain registration systems, the entities make 
efforts to minimise differences in their registration systems. 
 
3.  A Party, including its procuring entities, shall not adopt or apply any registration 
system  or  qualification  procedure  with  the  purpose  or  the  effect  of  creating 
unnecessary  obstacles  to  the  participation  of  suppliers  of  the  other  Party  in  its 
procurement. 
 
Selective Tendering 
 
4.  Where a procuring entity intends to use selective tendering, the entity shall: 
 
(a)  include in the notice of intended procurement at least the information specified 
in subparagraphs 2(a), (b), (f), (g), (j) and (k) of Article 13.7 (Notices) and 
invite suppliers to submit a request for participation; and 
 
(b)  provide, by the commencement of the time-period for tendering, at least the 
information  in  subparagraphs  2(c),  (d),  (e),  (h)  and  (i)  to  the  qualified 
suppliers that it notifies as specified in subparagraph 3(b) of Article 13.11 
(Time Periods). 
 
5.  A procuring entity shall allow all qualified suppliers to participate in a particular 
procurement, unless the procuring entity states in the notice of intended procurement 
any limitation on the number of suppliers that will be permitted to tender and the 
criteria for selecting the limited number of suppliers.  
 
6.  Where the tender documentation is not made publicly available from the date of 
publication of the notice referred to in paragraph 4, a procuring entity shall ensure that 
those documents are made available at the same time to all the qualified suppliers 
selected in accordance with paragraph 5. 
 
 
Multi-Use Lists 
 
7.  A procuring entity, where the domestic legislation permits, may maintain a multi-use 
list  of suppliers, provided that a notice inviting interested suppliers to  apply for 
inclusion on the list is: 
13-12 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
 (a)  published annually; and 
 
(b)  where published by electronic means, made available continuously, 
   
in the appropriate medium. 
 
8.  The notice provided for in paragraph 7 shall include: 
 
(a)  a description of the goods or services, or categories thereof, for which the list 
may be used; 
 
(b)  the conditions for participation to be satisfied by suppliers for inclusion on the 
list and the methods that the procuring entity will use to verify that a supplier 
satisfies the conditions; 
 
(c)  the name and address of the procuring entity and other information necessary 
to contact the entity and obtain all relevant documents relating to the list; 
 
(d)  the period of validity of the list and the means for its renewal or termination, 
or where the period of validity is not provided, an indication of the method by 
which notice will be given of the termination of use of the list; and 
 
(e)  an  indication  that  the  list  may  be  used  for  procurement  covered  by  this 
Chapter. 
 
9.  Notwithstanding paragraph 7, where a multi-use list will be valid for three years or 
less, a procuring entity may publish the notice referred to in paragraph 7 only once, at 
the beginning of the period of validity of the list, provided that the notice: 
 
(a)  states the period of validity and that further notices will not be published; and 
 
(b)  is published by electronic means and is made available continuously during 
the period of its validity. 
 
10.  A procuring entity shall allow suppliers to apply at any time for inclusion on a multi-
use list and shall include on the list all qualified suppliers within a reasonably short 
time. 
 
11.  Where  a  supplier  that  is  not  included  on  a  multi-use  list  submits  a  request  for 
participation in a procurement based on a multi-use list and all required documents, 
within the time period provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 13.11 (Time Periods), a 
procuring entity shall examine the request. The procuring entity shall not exclude the 
supplier from consideration in respect of the procurement on the grounds that the 
entity has insufficient time to examine the request, unless, in exceptional cases, due to 
the complexity of the procurement, the entity is not able to complete the examination 
of the request within the time period allowed for the submission of tenders. 
13-13 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
Entities covered under Annex 13-B (Sub-Central Entities) and Annex 13-C (Other Entities) 
 
12.  A procuring entity covered under Annex 13-B (Sub-Central Entities) or Annex 13-C 
(Other Entities) may use a notice inviting suppliers to apply for inclusion on a multi-
use list as a notice of intended procurement, provided that: 
 
(a)  the  notice  is  published  in  accordance  with  paragraph  7  and  includes  the 
information required under paragraph 8, as much of the information required 
under paragraph 2 of Article 13.7 (Notices) as is available and a statement that 
it constitutes a notice of intended procurement or that only the suppliers on the 
multi-use list will receive further notices of procurement covered by the multi-
use list; and 
 
(b)  the entity promptly provides to suppliers that have expressed an interest in a 
given  procurement  to  the  entity,  sufficient  information  to  permit  them  to 
assess their interest in the procurement, including all remaining information 
required  in  paragraph  2  of  Article 13.7  (Notices),  to  the  extent  such 
information is available. 
 
13.  A procuring entity covered under Annex 13-B (Sub-Central Entities) or Annex 13-C 
(Other Entities) may allow a supplier that has applied for inclusion on a multi-use list 
in accordance with paragraph 10 to tender in a given procurement, where there is 
sufficient time for the procuring entity to examine whether the supplier satisfies the 
conditions for participation. 
 
Information on Procuring Entity Decisions 
 
14.  A procuring entity shall promptly inform any supplier that submits a request for 
participation in a procurement or application for inclusion on a multi-use list of the 
procuring entity’s decision with respect to the request or application. 
 
15.  Where  a  procuring  entity  rejects  a  supplier’s  request  for  participation  in  a 
procurement or application for inclusion on a multi-use list, ceases to recognise a 
supplier as qualified, or removes a supplier from a multi-use list, the entity shall 
promptly inform the supplier and, on request of the supplier, promptly provide the 
supplier with a written explanation of the reasons for its decision. 
 
Article 13.10 
Technical Specifications and Tender Documentation 
 
Technical Specifications 
 
1.  A procuring entity shall not prepare, adopt or apply any technical specification or 
prescribe any conformity assessment procedure with the purpose or the effect of 
creating unnecessary obstacles to trade between the Parties. 
 
13-14 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
2.  In prescribing the technical specifications for the goods or services being procured, a 
procuring entity shall, where appropriate: 
 
(a)  set out the technical specification in terms of  performance and functional 
requirements, rather than design or descriptive characteristics; and 
 
(b)  base the technical specification on international standards, where such exist; 
otherwise, on national technical regulations, recognised national standards or 
building codes. 
 
3.  Where design or descriptive characteristics are used in the technical specifications, a 
procuring entity should indicate, where appropriate, that it will consider tenders of 
equivalent  goods  or  services  that  demonstrably  fulfill  the  requirements  of  the 
procurement by including words such as “or equivalent” in the tender documentation. 
  
4.  A procuring entity shall not prescribe technical specifications that require or refer to a 
particular trademark or trade name, patent, copyright, design, type, specific origin, 
producer or supplier, unless there is no other sufficiently precise or intelligible way of 
describing the procurement requirements and provided that, in such cases, the entity 
includes words such as “or equivalent” in the tender documentation. 
 
5.  A procuring entity shall not seek or accept, in a manner that would have the effect of 
precluding competition, advice that may be used in the preparation or adoption of any 
technical specification for a specific procurement from a person that may have a 
commercial interest in the procurement. 
 
6.  For greater certainty, a Party, including its procuring entities, may, in accordance with 
this  Article,  prepare,  adopt  or  apply  technical  specifications  to  promote  the 
conservation of natural resources or protect the environment. 
 
Tender Documentation 
 
7.  A  procuring  entity  shall  make  available  to  suppliers  tender  documentation  that 
includes  all  information  necessary  to  permit  suppliers  to  prepare  and  submit 
responsive tenders. Unless already provided in the notice of intended procurement, 
such documentation shall include a complete description of: 
 
(a)  the procurement, including the nature and the quantity of the goods or services 
to be procured or, where the quantity is not known, the estimated quantity and 
any  requirements  to  be  fulfilled,  including  any  technical  specifications, 
conformity assessment certification, plans, drawings or instructional materials; 
 
(b)  any conditions for participation of suppliers, including a list of information 
and documents that suppliers are required to submit in connection with the 
conditions for participation; 
 
13-15 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
(c)  all evaluation criteria the entity will apply in the awarding of the contract, and, 
except  where  price  is  the  sole  criterion,  the  relative  importance  of  such 
criteria; 
 
(d)  where the procuring entity will conduct the procurement by electronic means, 
any authentication and encryption requirements or other requirements related 
to the submission of information by electronic means; 
 
(e)  where the procuring entity will hold an electronic auction, the rules, including 
identification of the elements of the tender related to the evaluation criteria, on 
which the auction will be conducted; 
 
(f)  where there will be a public opening of tenders, the date, time and place for 
the opening and, where appropriate, the persons authorised to be present; 
 
(g)  any other terms or conditions, including terms of payment and any limitation 
on the means by which tenders may be submitted, such as whether on paper or 
by electronic means; and 
 
(h)  any dates for the delivery of goods or the supply of services. 
 
8.    In establishing any date for the delivery of goods or the supply of services being 
procured, a procuring entity shall take into account such factors as the complexity of 
the  procurement,  the  extent  of  subcontracting  anticipated  and  the  realistic  time 
required for production, de-stocking and transport of goods from the point of supply 
or for supply of services. 
 
9.    The  evaluation  criteria  set  out  in  the  notice  of  intended  procurement  or  tender 
documentation  may  include,  among  others,  price  and  other  cost  factors,  quality, 
technical merit, environmental characteristics and terms of delivery. 
 
10.  A procuring entity shall: 
 
(a)  promptly  make  available  tender  documentation  to  ensure  that  interested 
suppliers have sufficient time to submit responsive tenders; 
 
(b)  promptly  provide,  on  request,  the  tender  documentation  to  any  interested 
supplier; and 
 
(c)  without undue delay, reply to any reasonable request for relevant information 
by any interested or participating supplier, provided that such information 
does not give that supplier an advantage over other suppliers. 
 
Modifications 
 
11.  Where, prior to the award of a contract, a procuring entity modifies the criteria or 
requirements set out in the notice of intended procurement or tender documentation 
13-16 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
provided  to  participating  suppliers,  or  amends  or  reissues  a  notice  or  tender 
documentation, it shall transmit in writing all such modifications or amended or re-
issued notice or tender documentation: 
 
(a)  to  all  suppliers  that  are  participating  at  the  time  of  the  modification, 
amendment or re-issuance, where such suppliers are known to the entity, and 
in all other cases, in the same manner as the original information was made 
available; and 
 
(b)  in adequate time to allow such suppliers to modify and re-submit amended 
tenders, as appropriate. 
 
Article 13.11 
Time Periods 
 
General 
 
1.  A procuring entity shall, consistent with its own reasonable needs, provide sufficient 
time for suppliers to prepare and submit requests for participation and responsive 
tenders, taking into account such factors as: 
 
(a)  the nature and complexity of the procurement; 
 
(b)  the extent of subcontracting anticipated; and 
 
(c)  the  time  necessary  for  transmitting  tenders  by  non-electronic  means  from 
foreign as well as domestic points where electronic means are not used. 
 
Such time-periods, including any extension of the time-periods, shall be the same for 
all interested or participating suppliers. 
 
Deadlines 
 
2.  A procuring entity that uses selective tendering shall establish that the final date for 
the submission of requests for participation shall not, in principle, be less than 25 days 
from the date of publication of the notice of intended procurement. Where a state of 
urgency  duly  substantiated  by  the  procuring  entity  renders  this  time-period 
impracticable, the time-period may be reduced to not less than 10 days. 
 
3.  Except as provided for in paragraphs 4, 5, 7 and 8, a procuring entity shall establish 
that the final date for the submission of tenders shall not be less than 40 days from the 
date on which: 
 
(a)  in the case of open tendering, the notice of intended procurement is published; 
or 
 
13-17 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
(b)  in the case of selective tendering, the entity notifies suppliers that they will be 
invited to submit tenders, whether or not it uses a multi-use list. 
 
4.    A procuring entity may reduce the time-period for tendering established in accordance 
with paragraph 3 to not less than 10 days where:  
 
(a)  the  procuring  entity  has  published  a  notice  of  planned  procurement  as 
described in paragraph 4 of Article 13.7 (Notices) at least 40 days and not 
more than 12 months in advance of the publication of the notice of intended 
procurement, and the notice of planned procurement contains: 
 
(i)  a description of the procurement; 
 
(ii)  the approximate final dates for the submission of tenders or requests 
for participation; 
 
(iii)  a statement that interested suppliers should express their interest in the 
procurement to the procuring entity; 
 
(iv)  the address from which documents relating to the procurement may be 
obtained; and 
 
(v)  as much of the information that is required for the notice of intended 
procurement  under  paragraph  2  of  Article 13.7  (Notices),  as  is 
available; 
 
(b)  the procuring entity, for recurring contracts, indicates in an initial notice of 
intended procurement that subsequent notices will provide time-periods for 
tendering based on this paragraph; or 
 
(c)  a state of urgency duly substantiated by the procuring entity renders the time-
period for tendering established in accordance with paragraph 3 impracticable. 
 
5.  A procuring entity may reduce the time-period for tendering established in accordance 
with paragraph 3 by five days for each one of the following circumstances: 
 
(a)  the notice of intended procurement is published by electronic means; 
 
(b)  all the tender documentation is made available by electronic means from the 
date of the publication of the notice of intended procurement; and 
 
(c)  the entity accepts tenders by electronic means. 
 
6.  The use of paragraph 5, in conjunction with paragraph 4, shall in no case result in the 
reduction of the time-period for tendering established in accordance with paragraph 3 
to less than 10 days from the date on which the notice of intended procurement is 
published. 
13-18 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
7.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  in  this  Article,  where  a  procuring  entity 
purchases commercial goods or services, or any combination thereof, it may reduce 
the time-period for tendering established in accordance with paragraph 3 to not less 
than 13 days, provided that it publishes by electronic means, at the same time, both 
the notice of intended procurement and the tender documentation. In addition, where 
the entity accepts tenders for commercial goods or services by electronic means, it 
may reduce the time-period established in accordance with paragraph 3 to not less 
than 10 days.  
 
8.  Where a procuring entity that is covered under Annex 13-B (Sub-Central Entities) or 
13-C (Other Entities) has selected all or a limited number of qualified suppliers, as 
permitted by domestic legislation, the time-period for tendering may be fixed by 
mutual agreement between the procuring entity and the selected suppliers. In the 
absence of agreement, the period shall not be less than 10 days.  
 
Article 13.12 
Negotiations 
 
1.  A Party may provide for its procuring entities to conduct negotiations: 
 
(a)  where the entity has indicated its intent to conduct negotiations in the notice of 
intended procurement required under paragraph 2 of Article 13.7 (Notices); or 
 
(b)  where it appears from the evaluation that no tender is obviously the most 
advantageous in terms of the specific evaluation criteria set out in the notice of 
intended procurement or tender documentation. 
 
2.  A procuring entity shall: 
 
(a)  ensure that any elimination of suppliers participating in negotiations is carried 
out in accordance with the evaluation criteria set out in the notice of intended 
procurement or tender documentation; and 
 
(b)  where  negotiations  are  concluded,  provide  a  common  deadline  for  the 
remaining participating suppliers to submit any new or revised tenders. 
 
Article 13.13 
Limited Tendering 
 
1.  Provided that it does not use this provision for the purpose of avoiding competition 
among suppliers or in a manner that discriminates against suppliers of the other Party 
or protects domestic suppliers, a procuring entity may use limited tendering and may 
choose not to apply Article 13.7 (Notices) to Article 13.9 (Qualification of Suppliers), 
paragraphs  7  to  11  of  Article  13.10  (Technical  Specifications  and  Tender 
Documentation), Article 13.11 (Time Periods), Article 13.12 (Negotiations), Article 
13-19 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
13.14 (Electronic Auctions) and Article 13.15 (Treatment of Tenders and Awarding 
of Contracts) only under any of the following circumstances: 
 
(a)  where: 
 
(i)  no tenders were submitted or no suppliers requested participation; 
 
(ii)  no tenders that conform to the essential requirements of the tender 
documentation were submitted; 
 
(iii)  no suppliers satisfied the conditions for participation; or 
 
(iv)  the tenders submitted have been collusive, 
 
provided  that  the  requirements  of  the  tender  documentation  are  not  substantially 
modified; 
 
(b)  where the goods or services can be supplied only by a particular supplier and 
no reasonable alternative or substitute goods or services exist for any of the 
following reasons: 
 
(i)  the requirement is for a work of art; 
 
(ii)  the protection of patents, copyrights or other exclusive rights; or 
 
(iii)  due to an absence of competition for technical reasons; 
 
(c)  for additional deliveries by the original supplier of goods or services that were 
not included in the initial procurement where a change of supplier for such 
additional goods or services: 
 
(i)  cannot  be  made  for  economic  or  technical  reasons  such  as 
requirements  of  inter-changeability  or  interoperability  with  existing 
equipment, software, services or installations procured under the initial 
procurement; and 
 
(ii)  would cause significant inconvenience or substantial duplication of 
costs for the procuring entity; 
 
(d)  insofar as is strictly necessary where, for reasons of extreme urgency brought 
about by events unforeseeable by the procuring entity, the goods or services 
could not be obtained in time using open tendering or selective tendering; 
 
(e)  for goods purchased on a commodity market; 
 
(f)  where a procuring entity procures a prototype or a first good or service that is 
developed at its request in the course of, and for, a particular contract for 
13-20 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
research, experiment, study or original development. Original development of 
a first good or service may include limited production or supply in order to 
incorporate the results of field testing and to demonstrate that the good or 
service is suitable for production or supply in quantity to acceptable quality 
standards, but does not include quantity production or supply to establish 
commercial viability or to recover research and development costs; 
 
(g)  for purchases made under exceptionally advantageous conditions that only 
arise in the very short term in the case of unusual disposals such as those 
arising  from  liquidation,  receivership  or  bankruptcy,  but  not  for  routine 
purchases from regular suppliers; or 
 
(h)  where a contract is awarded to a winner of a design contest provided that: 
 
(i)  the contest has been organised in a manner that is consistent with the 
principles of this Chapter, in particular relating to the publication of a 
notice of intended procurement; and 
 
(ii)  the participants are judged by an independent jury with a view to a 
design contract being awarded to a winner. 
 
2.  A procuring entity shall prepare a report in writing on each contract awarded under 
paragraph 1. The report shall include the name of the procuring entity, the value and 
kind of goods or services procured and a statement indicating the circumstances and 
conditions described in paragraph 1 that justified the use of limited tendering. 
 
Article 13.14 
Electronic Auctions 
 
Where a procuring entity intends to conduct a covered procurement using an electronic 
auction, the entity shall provide each participant, before commencing the electronic auction, 
with: 
 
(a)    the automatic evaluation method, including the mathematical formula, that is 
based on the evaluation criteria set out in the tender documentation and that 
will be used in the automatic ranking or re-ranking during the auction; 
 
(b)    the results of any initial evaluation of the elements of its tender where the 
contract is to be awarded on the basis of the most advantageous tender; and 
 
(c)    any other relevant information relating to the conduct of the auction. 
 
Article 13.15 
Treatment of Tenders and Awarding of Contracts 
 
Treatment of Tenders 
 
13-21 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
1.  A  procuring  entity  shall  receive,  open  and  treat  all  tenders  in  accordance  with 
procedures that guarantee the fairness and impartiality of the procurement process, 
and the confidentiality of tenders. 
 
2.  A procuring entity shall not penalise any supplier whose tender is received after the 
time specified for receiving tenders if the delay is due solely to mishandling on the 
part of the procuring entity. 
 
3.  Where  allowed  by  a  Party,  its  procuring  entity  may  provide  a  supplier  with  an 
opportunity to correct unintentional errors of form between the opening of tenders and 
the awarding of the contract on the condition that the procuring entity provide the 
same opportunity to all participating suppliers. 
 
Awarding of Contracts 
 
4.  To be considered for an award, a tender shall be submitted in writing and shall, at the 
time of opening, comply with the essential requirements set out in the notices and 
tender  documentation  and  be  from  a  supplier  that  satisfies  the  conditions  for 
participation. 
 
5.  Unless a procuring entity determines that it is not in the public interest to award a 
contract,  the  entity  shall  award  the  contract  to  the  supplier  that  the  entity  has 
determined to be capable of fulfilling the terms of the contract and that, based solely 
on the evaluation  criteria specified in  the notices and tender documentation,  has 
submitted: 
 
(a)  the most advantageous tender in terms of price and non-price criteria; or 
 
(b)  where price is the sole criterion, the lowest price. 
 
6.  Where a procuring entity receives a tender with a price that is abnormally lower than 
the prices in other tenders submitted or the estimated procurement value, it may verify 
with the supplier that it satisfies the conditions for participation and is capable of 
fulfilling the terms of the contract.  
 
7.  A procuring entity shall not use options, cancel a procurement or modify awarded 
contracts in a manner that circumvents the obligations under this Chapter. 
 
Article 13.16 
Transparency of Procurement Information 
 
Information Provided to Suppliers 
 
1.  A  procuring  entity  shall  promptly  inform  participating  suppliers  of  the  entity’s 
contract award decisions and, on the request of a supplier, shall do so in writing. 
Subject  to  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  Article  13.17  (Disclosure  of  Information),  a 
procuring  entity  shall,  on  request,  provide  an  unsuccessful  supplier  with  an 
13-22 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
explanation of the reasons why the entity did not select its tender and the relative 
advantages of the successful supplier’s tender.1    
   
Publication of Award Information 
 
2.  Not later than 72 days after the award of each contract covered by this Chapter, a 
procuring entity shall publish a notice in the appropriate paper or electronic medium 
listed in Annex 13-H (Means of Publication). Where the entity publishes the notice 
only in an electronic medium, the information shall remain readily accessible for a 
reasonable period of time. The notice shall include at least the following information: 
 
(a)  a description of the goods or services procured; 
 
(b)  the name and address of the procuring entity; 
 
(c)  the name and address of the successful supplier; 
 
(d)  the value of the successful tender or the highest and lowest offers taken into 
account in the award of the contract; 
 
(e)  the date of award; and 
 
(f)  the type of procurement method used, and in cases where limited tendering 
was used in accordance with Article 13.13 (Limited Tendering), a description 
of the circumstances justifying the use of limited tendering. 
 
Maintenance of Documentation, Reports and Electronic Traceability 
 
3.  Each procuring entity shall, for a period of at least three years from the date it awards 
a contract, maintain: 
 
(a)  the documentation and reports of tendering procedures and contract awards 
relating to covered procurement, including the reports required under Article 
13.13 (Limited Tendering); and 
 
(b)  data  that  ensure  the  appropriate  traceability  of  the  conduct  of  covered 
procurement by electronic means. 
 
Collection and Reporting of Statistics 
 
4.  Each Party agrees to communicate to the other Party the available and comparable 
statistics relevant to the procurement covered by this Chapter. 
 
Article 13.17 
                                                           
1   For Turkey, “on request” may not be applicable because the explanation of the reasons for the selection 
and the relative advantages are already provided at the point where the participating suppliers are 
informed of the procuring entity’s decision. 
13-23 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
Disclosure of Information 
 
Provision of Information to Parties 
 
1.   On  request  of  a  Party,  the  other  Party  shall  provide  promptly  any  information 
necessary to determine whether a procurement was conducted fairly, impartially and 
in accordance with this Chapter, including information on the characteristics and 
relative advantages of the successful tender. In cases where release of the information 
would prejudice competition in future tenders, the Party that receives the information 
shall not disclose it to any supplier, except after consulting with, and obtaining the 
agreement of, the Party that provided the information. 
 
Non-Disclosure of Information 
 
2.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, a Party, including its procuring 
entities, shall not provide to any particular supplier information that might prejudice 
fair competition between suppliers. 
 
3.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party, including its procuring 
entities, authorities and review bodies, to disclose confidential information where 
disclosure: 
 
(a)   would impede law enforcement; 
 
(b)  might prejudice fair competition between suppliers; 
 
(c)   would  prejudice  the  legitimate  commercial  interests  of  particular  persons, 
including the protection of intellectual property; or 
 
(d)   would otherwise be contrary to the public interest. 
 
Article 13.18 
Domestic Review Procedures 
 
1.  In the event of a complaint by a supplier of a Party that there has been a breach of this 
Chapter in the context of procurement by the other Party, that Party may encourage 
the supplier to first seek resolution of its complaint in consultation with the procuring 
entity of the other Party.  
 
2.  Each Party shall provide suppliers of the other Party with non-discriminatory, timely, 
transparent and effective procedures to challenge alleged breaches of this Chapter 
arising in the context of procurements in which they have, or have had, an interest. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide its challenge procedures in writing and make them generally 
available. 
 
13-24 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
4.  Challenges shall be heard by a court or by an impartial and independent review body 
with no interest in the outcome of the procurement and the members of which are 
secure from external influence during the term of appointment. 
 
5.   Each supplier shall be allowed a sufficient period of time to prepare and submit a 
challenge, which in no case shall be less than 10 days from the time when the basis of 
the  challenge  became  known  or  reasonably  should  have  become  known  to  the 
supplier. 
 
6.   Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures that provide for rapid interim measures 
to preserve the supplier’s opportunity to participate in the procurement. Such interim 
measures may result in suspension of the procurement process. The procedures may 
provide that overriding adverse consequences for the interests concerned, including 
the public interest, may be taken into account when deciding whether such measures 
should be applied. Just cause for not acting shall be provided in writing. 
 
7.   A Party’s total liability for any breach of this Chapter or compensation for loss or 
damages  suffered  shall  be  limited  to  the  costs  for  tender  preparation  reasonably 
incurred by the supplier for the purpose of the procurement. 
 
Article 13.19 
Modifications and Rectifications to Coverage 
 
Notification of Proposed Modification 
 
1.   A Party shall notify the other Party of any proposed rectification, transfer of an entity 
from one Annex to another, withdrawal of an entity or other modification of its 
Annexes (any of which is hereinafter referred to as “modification”) in writing. 
 
2.   For any proposed withdrawal of an entity from any Party’s Annexes on the grounds 
that government control or influence over the entity's covered procurement has been 
effectively eliminated, the Party proposing the modification (hereinafter referred to as 
“modifying Party”) shall include in the notification evidence that such government 
control or influence has been effectively eliminated. Government control or influence 
over  the  covered  procurement  of  entities  listed  in  its  Annexes  is  deemed  to  be 
effectively eliminated if the procuring entity has been privatised or where the majority 
of shares of the entity is not held by government or other public bodies. 
 
3.   Where government control or influence over the covered procurement of an entity of 
a  Party  has  been  effectively  eliminated,  the  other  Party  shall  not  be  entitled  to 
compensatory adjustments.  
 
4.   For  any  other  proposed  modification,  the  modifying  Party  shall  include  in  the 
notification information as to the likely consequences of the change for the coverage 
provided  in  this  Chapter.  Where  the  modifying  Party  proposes  to  make  minor 
amendments or technical rectifications of a purely formal nature not affecting covered 
procurement, it shall notify these modifications at least every two years. 
13-25 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
 
Resolution of Objection 
 
5.   In case of objection by the other Party (hereinafter referred to as “objecting Party”) to 
the notification by the modifying Party, the Parties shall seek to resolve the objection 
through bilateral consultations. In such consultations, the Parties shall consider: 
 
(a)   evidence  pertaining  to  the  effective  elimination  of  government  control  or 
influence over an entity’s covered procurement in the case of a notification 
under paragraph 2; 
 
(b)   evidence that the proposed modification does not affect coverage in the case of 
a notification under paragraph 4; and 
 
(c)   any claims relating to the need for or level of compensatory adjustments, 
arising from modifications notified according to paragraph 1. The adjustments 
may consist of either compensatory expansion of coverage by the modifying 
Party or a withdrawal of equivalent coverage by the objecting Party, with a 
view to maintaining a balance of rights and obligations and a comparable level 
of mutually agreed coverage provided in this Chapter. 
  
6.  Where the objecting Party, after bilateral consultations under paragraph 5, considers 
that one or more of the following situations exist:  
 
(a)  in the case of subparagraph 5(a), government control or influence over an 
entity’s covered procurement has not been effectively eliminated;  
 
(b)   in the case of subparagraph 5(b), a modification does not meet the criteria in 
paragraph  4  and  which  affects  coverage,  and  should  be  subject  to 
compensatory adjustments; or  
 
(c)   in the case of subparagraph 5(c), compensatory adjustments proposed during 
the consultation between the Parties are not adequate to maintain a comparable 
level of mutually agreed coverage,  
 
the Parties may have recourse to the dispute settlement mechanism under Chapter 17 
(Dispute Settlement). 
 
Implementation 
 
7.   A proposed modification shall become effective only where:  
 
(a)  the other Party has not submitted to the modifying Party a written objection to 
the proposed modification within 45 days from the date of the notification of 
the proposed modifications;  
 
13-26 Chapter 13 – Government Procurement 
 
(b)   the objecting Party has notified the modifying Party of the withdrawal of its 
objection;  
 
(c)   the Parties have reached an agreement after due consultations under paragraph 
5; or  
 
(d)   the objection has been resolved through the dispute settlement mechanism 
under paragraph 6. 
13-27 