Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
CHAPTER 10 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
Article 10.1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
“cross-border financial service supplier of a Party” means a person of a Party that is engaged 
in the business of supplying a financial service within the territory of the Party and that seeks 
to supply or supplies a financial service through the cross-border supply of such services; 
 
“cross-border  trade  in  financial  services”  or  “cross-border  supply  of  financial  services” 
means the supply of a financial service: 
 
(a)  from the territory of  one Party into the territory of the other Party; 
 
(b)  in the territory of  one Party by a person of that Party to a person of the other 
Party; or 
 
(c)  by a national of a Party in the territory of the other Party, 
 
but does not include the supply of a financial service in the territory of a Party by an 
investor of the other Party, or investments of such investors, in financial institutions in 
the Party’s territory; 
 
“enterprise” means any entity constituted or organised under applicable law, whether or not 
for  profit,  and  whether  privately  or  governmentally  owned  or  controlled,  including  a 
corporation,  trust,  partnership,  sole  proprietorship,  joint  venture,  association,  or  similar 
organisation, and a branch of an enterprise;  
 
“enterprise of a Party” means an enterprise constituted or organised under the law of a Party, 
and a branch1 located in the territory of a Party, and carrying out  substantive business 
activities there; 
 
“financial institution” means any financial intermediary or other enterprise that is authorised 
to do business and regulated or supervised as a financial institution under the law of the Party 
in whose territory it is located; 
 
“financial institution of the other Party” means a financial institution, including a branch, 
located in the territory of a Party that is controlled by persons of the other Party; 
 
“financial  service”  means  any  service  of  a  financial  nature  offered  by  a  financial 
service supplier of a Party. Financial services include all insurance and insurance-related 
services,  and  all  banking  and  other  financial  services  (excluding  insurance),  as  well  as 
services incidental or auxiliary to a service of a financial nature. Financial services include 
the following activities: 
                                                           
1   For greater certainty, a branch of an enterprise of a non-Party shall not be considered as an enterprise of 
a Party. 
10-1 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
 
(a)   Insurance and insurance-related services: 
 
(i)  direct insurance (including co-insurance):  
 
(A)  life; 
 
(B)  non-life; 
 
(ii)  reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(iii)  insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; and 
 
(iv)   services  auxiliary  to  insurance,  such  as  consultancy, actuarial,  risk 
assessment and claim settlement services. 
 
(b)  Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance): 
 
(i)  acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
 
(ii)  lending  of  all  types,  including  consumer  credit,  mortgage  credit, 
factoring and financing of commercial transactions; 
 
(iii)  financial leasing; 
 
(iv)  all  payment  and  money  transmission  services,  including  credit, 
charge and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts; 
 
(v)  guarantees and commitments; 
 
(vi)  trading  for  own  account  or  for  account  of  customers,  whether  on 
an  exchange,  in  an  over-the-counter  market  or  otherwise,  the 
following: 
 
(A)  money  market  instruments  (including  cheques,  bills  and 
certificates of deposits); 
 
(B)  foreign exchange; 
 
(C)  derivative  products  including,  but  not  limited  to,  futures 
and options; 
 
(D)  exchange  rate  and  interest  rate  instruments,  including 
products such as swaps, forward rate agreements; 
 
(E)  transferable securities; and 
 
(F)  other  negotiable  instruments  and  financial  assets,  including 
bullion. 
 
10-2 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
(vii)  participation  in  issues  of  all  kinds  of  securities,  including 
underwriting and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) 
and provision of services related to such issues; 
 
(viii)  money broking; 
 
(ix)  asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms 
of  collective  investment  management,  pension  fund  management, 
custodial, depository and trust services; 
 
(x)  settlement  and  clearing  services  for  financial  assets,  including 
securities, derivative products and other negotiable instruments; 
 
(xi)  provision  and  transfer  of  financial  information,  and  financial  data 
processing and related software; and 
 
(xii)   advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on all 
the activities listed in subparagraphs (i) through (xi), including credit 
reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, 
advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy. 
 
“financial service supplier” means any person of a Party that seeks to supply or supplies 
financial services; but the term “financial service supplier” does not include a public entity; 
 
“investment” means “investment” as defined in Article 12.1 (Definitions) of Chapter 12 
(Investment), except that, with respect to “loans” and “debt instruments” referred to in that 
Article: 
 
(a)  a loan to or debt instrument issued by a financial institution is an investment 
only where it is treated as regulatory capital by the Party in whose territory the 
financial institution is located; and 
 
(b)  a loan granted by or debt instrument owned by a financial institution, other 
than a loan to or debt instrument of a financial institution referred to in sub-
paragraph (a), is not an investment; 
 
For greater certainty, a loan granted by or debt instrument owned by a cross-border financial 
service supplier, other than a loan to or debt instrument issued by a financial institution, is an 
investment if such loan or debt instrument meets the criteria for investments set out in Article 
12.1 (Definitions) of Chapter 12 (Investment). 
 
“investor of a Party” means a national or enterprise of a Party, that attempts to make, is 
making, or has made an investment in the territory of the other Party, provided, however, that 
a natural person who possesses dual nationality shall be deemed to possess exclusively the 
nationality of the State of his or her dominant and effective nationality;  
 
“new financial service” means a service of a financial nature, including services related to 
existing and new financial products or the manner in which a financial product is delivered, 
that is not supplied by any financial service supplier in the territory of a Party but which is 
supplied in the territory of the other Party; 
10-3 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
 
“person of a Party” means either a natural person2 or an enterprise of a Party and, for greater 
certainty, does not include a branch of an enterprise of a non-party; 
 
“public entity” means: 
 
  (a)  a  government,  a  central  bank  or  a  monetary  authority  of  a  Party  or  an 
entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally engaged in carrying 
out  governmental  functions  or  activities  for  governmental  purposes,  not 
including an  entity principally  engaged in  supplying financial  services on 
commercial terms; or 
 
  (b)  a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a central bank 
or monetary authority, when exercising those functions. 
 
“self-regulatory organisation” means any non-governmental body, including any securities or 
futures exchange or market, clearing agency, other organisation or association, that exercises 
regulatory or supervisory authority over financial service suppliers or financial institutions by 
statute or delegation from the government or relevant authorities. 
 
Article 10.2 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)  financial institutions of the other Party; 
 
(b)  investors of the other Party, and investments of such investors, in financial 
institutions in the Party’s territory; and 
 
(c)  cross-border trade in financial services. 
 
2.  Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services) and Chapter 12 (Investment) apply to 
measures described in  paragraph 1 only to the extent that these Chapters or the 
Articles therein are incorporated into this Chapter. Accordingly: 
 
(a)  Article 7.9 (Transfers and Payments) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services)  is  incorporated,  mutatis  mutandis,  into  and  made  a  part  of  this 
Chapter to the extent that cross-border trade in financial services is subject to 
the  obligations  pursuant  to  Article  10.5  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Financial 
Services); 
 
(b)  Article  7.10  (Denial  of  Benefits)  of  Chapter  7  (Cross-Border  Trade  in 
Services),  Article  12.11  (Expropriation),  including  Annex  12-A 
(Expropriation),  Article  12.12  (Transfers)  and  Article  12.22  (Denial  of 
                                                           
2   For the purpose of this subparagraph, “natural person of a Party” means any person who is a citizen of 
a Party within the meaning of its Constitution and its domestic laws. A natural person who possesses 
dual nationality shall be deemed to possess exclusively the nationality of the State of his or her 
dominant and effective nationality. 
10-4 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
Benefits)  of  Chapter  12  (Investment)  are  hereby  incorporated,  mutatis 
mutandis,  into and made a part of this Chapter; and 
 
(c)  Section 12-B (Investor-State Dispute Settlement) of Chapter 12 (Investment) 
is hereby incorporated, mutatis mutandis,  into and made a part of this Chapter 
solely  for claims that a Party has breached Article  12.11 (Expropriation), 
including Annex 12-A (Expropriation), Article 12.12 (Transfers)  and Article 
12.22 (Denial of Benefits) of Chapter 12 (Investment) as incorporated into this 
Chapter. 
 
3.  This Chapter does not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)    activities or services forming part of a public retirement plan or statutory 
system of social security; or 
 
(b)    activities or services conducted for the account or with the guarantee or using 
the financial resources of the Party, including its public entities, 
 
except that this Chapter shall apply if a party allows any of the activities or services 
referred to in subparagraphs (a) or (b) to be conducted by its financial institutions in 
competition with a public entity or a financial institution. 
 
4.  This Chapter does not apply to the government procurement of financial services. 
  
5.  This Chapter shall not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking access to 
the  employment  market  of  a  Party,  nor  shall  it  apply  to  measures  regarding 
citizenship, residence or employment on a permanent basis. 
6.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate the 
entry of natural persons of the other Party into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, 
including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to  ensure the 
orderly movement of natural persons across, its borders, provided that such measures 
are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits accruing to the 
other Party under the terms of this Chapter. 
 
Article 10.3 
National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no less favourable 
than that it accords to its own investors, in like circumstances, with respect to the 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and sale or 
other disposition of financial institutions and investments in financial institutions in 
its territory. 
 
2.  Each Party shall accord to financial institutions of the other Party and to investments 
of investors of the other Party in financial institutions treatment no less favourable 
than that it accords to its own financial institutions, and to investments of its own 
investors  in  financial  institutions,  in  like  circumstances,  with  respect  to  the 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and sale or 
other disposition of financial institutions and investments. 
10-5 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
 
3.  For purposes of the national treatment obligations in paragraph 1 of Article 10.5 
(Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services), each Party shall accord to cross-border 
financial service suppliers of the other Party treatment no less favourable than that it 
accords, in like circumstances, to its own financial service suppliers with respect to 
the supply of the relevant service.  
 
Article 10.4 
Market Access for Financial Institutions 
 
A Party shall not adopt or maintain, with respect to financial institutions of the other Party, 
either on the basis of a regional sub-division or on the basis of its entire territory, measures 
that:  
 
(a)   impose limitations on: 
 
(i)  the number of financial institutions whether in the form of numerical 
quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers, or the requirements of 
an economic needs test; 
 
(ii)  the total value of financial service transactions or assets in the form of 
numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(iii)  the total number of financial service operations or the total quantity of 
financial services output expressed in terms of designated numerical 
units in the form of quotas or the requirement of an economic needs 
test;  
 
(iv)  the  total  number  of  natural  persons  that  may  be  employed  in  a 
particular financial service sector or that a financial institution may 
employ and who are necessary for, and directly related to, the supply 
of a specific financial service in the form of a numerical quota or the 
requirement of an economic needs test; or 
 
(v)  the participation of foreign capital in terms of maximum percentage 
limit  on  foreign  shareholding  or  the  total  value  of  individual  or 
aggregate foreign investment; or 
 
(b)   restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture through which 
a financial service supplier may supply a financial service. 
  
Article 10.5 
Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services 
 
1.  Each Party shall permit, under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, 
cross-border financial service suppliers of the other Party to supply financial services, 
subject to non-conforming measures set out in its Schedule to Annex 10-A and Annex 
10-B. 
 
10-6 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
2.  Each Party shall permit persons located in its territory, and its nationals wherever 
located, to purchase financial services from cross-border financial service suppliers of 
the other Party located in the territory of that other Party. 
 
3.  This Article does not require a Party to permit such suppliers to do or solicit business 
in  its  territory.  Each  Party  may  define  “doing  business”  and  “solicitation”  for 
purposes of this obligation, as long as such definitions are not inconsistent with 
paragraph 1. 
 
4.  Without prejudice to other means of prudential regulation of cross-border trade in 
financial services, a Party may require the registration, authorisation or licensing of 
cross-border financial service suppliers of the other Party and of financial instruments. 
 
Article 10.6 
Non-Conforming Measures 
 
1.  Article  10.3  (National  Treatment),  Article  10.4  (Market  Access  for  Financial 
Institutions) and Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services) do not apply 
to: 
 
(a)  any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a Party as set out 
by that Party in its Schedule to Annex 10-A; 
 
(b)  the continuation or prompt renewal of any non-conforming measure referred 
to in subparagraph (a); or 
 
(c)  an amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in subparagraph (a) 
to the extent that the amendment does not decrease the conformity of the 
measure, as it existed at the date of entry into force of this Agreement, with 
Article 10.3 (National Treatment), Article 10.4 (Market Access for Financial 
Institutions) and Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services). 
 
2.  Article  10.3  (National  Treatment),  Article  10.4  (Market  Access  for  Financial 
Institutions) and Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services) do not apply 
to any measure that a Party adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors or 
activities as set out by that Party in its Schedule to Annex 10-B. 
 
3.  A non-conforming measure set out in a Party’s Schedule to Annex 7-A or Annex 7-B 
as a measure to which Article 7.3 (National Treatment), Article 7.4 (Market Access) 
of  Chapter  7  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services),  or  12.4  (National  Treatment)  of 
Chapter 12 (Investment) does not apply shall be treated as a non-conforming measure 
described in paragraphs 1 and 2, to which Article 10.3 (National Treatment), Article 
10.4 (Market Access for Financial Institutions) or Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Financial Services), as the case may be, does not apply, to the extent that the measure, 
sector, sub-sector or activity set out in the schedule of non-conforming measures is 
covered by this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
10-7 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 10.7 
New Financial Services3 
 
1.  Each Party shall permit a financial institution of the other Party to supply any new 
financial service that the first Party would permit its own financial institutions to 
supply, in like circumstances, under its domestic law, provided that the supply of the 
new financial service does not require a new law or modification of an existing law by 
the first Party. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  (b)  of  Article  10.4  (Market  Access  for  Financial 
Institutions), a Party may determine the institutional and juridical form through which 
the new financial service may be supplied and may require authorisation for the 
supply  of  the  service.  Where  a  Party  requires  a  financial  institution  to  obtain 
authorisation  to  supply  a  new  financial  service,  the  Party  shall  decide  within  a 
reasonable time whether to issue the authorisation and the authorisation may only be 
refused for prudential reasons. 
 
Article 10.8 
Regulatory Transparency 
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that measures of general application relating to supply of 
financial services are promptly published or otherwise made available in a manner so 
as to enable interested persons to become acquainted with them. 
 
2.    To the extent practicable, and in accordance with its domestic law, each Party shall: 
 
(a)   publish in advance any measure of general application relating to supply of 
financial services that it proposes to adopt and the purpose of the measure, and  
 
(b)   provide interested persons with a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
proposed measures. 
 
3.    To  the  extent  practicable,  each  Party  shall  allow  a  reasonable  time  between  the 
publication of final measures of general application relating to supply of financial 
services and their effective date.  
 
4.     Each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application relating to supply of 
financial services are administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner.   
 
5.    Each Party shall maintain appropriate mechanisms for responding to enquires from 
interested persons regarding measures of general application relating to supply of 
                                                           
3   The Parties understand that nothing in this Article prevents a financial institution of a Party from 
applying to the other Party to consider authorising the supply of a financial service that is not supplied 
in the territory of any Party. Such application shall be subject to the law of the Party to which the 
application is made and, for greater certainty, shall not be subject to the obligations of this Article. 
10-8 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
financial services. 
 
Article 10.9 
Recognition of Prudential Measures 
 
1.  A Party may recognise prudential measures of the other Party or of a non-Party in the 
application of measures covered by this Chapter. Such recognition may be: 
 
(a)  accorded unilaterally; 
 
(b)  achieved through harmonisation or other means; or 
 
(c)  based upon an agreement or arrangement with the other Party or a non-Party. 
 
2.  A Party according recognition of prudential measures under paragraph 1 shall provide 
adequate opportunity to the other Party to demonstrate that circumstances exist in 
which  there  are  or  would  be  equivalent  regulation,  oversight,  implementation  of 
regulation,  and,  if  appropriate,  procedures  concerning  the  sharing  of  information 
between the Parties. 
 
3.  Where a Party accords recognition of prudential measures under paragraph 1(c) with a 
non-Party and the circumstances set out in paragraph 2 exist, the Party shall provide 
adequate opportunity to the other Party to negotiate accession to the agreement or 
arrangement, or to negotiate a comparable agreement or arrangement. 
 
Article 10.10 
Self-Regulatory Organisations 
   
Where a Party requires a financial institution of the other Party to be a member of, participate 
in, or have access to, a self-regulatory organisation to provide a financial service in the 
territory of that Party, that Party shall ensure observance of the obligations set out in Article 
10.3 (National Treatment) by such self-regulatory organisation. 
 
Article 10.11 
Payment and Clearing Systems 
 
Under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, each Party shall, as permitted by 
each Party’s access criteria, grant to financial institutions of the other Party, established in its 
territory and regulated or supervised as financial institutions under its domestic law, access to 
payment  and  clearing  systems  operated  by  public  entities,  and  to  official  funding  and 
refinancing facilities available in the normal course of ordinary business. This Article is not 
intended to confer access to a Party’s lender of last resort facilities. 
 
Article 10.12 
Transfers of Information and Processing of Information 
 
Neither Party shall take measures that prevent transfers of information or the processing of 
financial information, including transfers of data by electronic means, or that, subject to 
importation rules consistent with international agreements, prevent transfers of equipment, 
where  such  transfers  of  information,  processing  of  financial  information  or  transfers  of 
10-9 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
equipment are necessary for the conduct of the ordinary business of a financial service 
supplier. Nothing in this paragraph restricts the right of a Party to protect personal data, 
personal privacy and the confidentiality of individual records and accounts so long as such 
right is not used to circumvent the provision of this Agreement. 
 
Article 10.13 
Treatment of Certain Information 
 
Nothing in this Agreement requires a Party to furnish or allow access to: 
 
(a)  information  related  to  the  financial  affairs  and  accounts  of  individual 
customers of financial institutions or cross-border financial service suppliers; 
or 
 
(b)  any confidential or proprietary information, the disclosure of which would 
impede  law  enforcement  or  otherwise  be  contrary  to    public  interests  or 
prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises. 
 
Article 10.14 
Exceptions 
   
1.  Nothing in this Chapter, or Chapter 8 (Telecommunications) including specifically 
Article 8.19 (Relationship to Other Chapters), Chapter 9 (Electronic Commerce) or 
Chapter 12 (Investment), and in addition Article 7.2 (Scope and Coverage) of Chapter 
7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services) with respect to the supply of financial services in 
the territory of a Party by an investor of the other Party or investments of investors of 
the other Party, as defined in Chapter 12 (Investment), applies to measures of general 
application  taken  by  any  public  entity  in  pursuit  of  monetary  and  related  credit 
policies or exchange rate policies. This paragraph shall not affect a Party’s obligations 
under Article 7.9 (Transfers and Payments) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services), Article 12.7 (Performance Requirements) or Article 12.12 (Transfers) of 
Chapter 12 (Investment).  
 
2.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provisions  of  the  Agreement,  a  Party  shall  not  be 
prevented from taking measures for prudential reasons4, including for the protection 
of investors, depositors, policy-holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed 
by a financial service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial 
system. Where such measures do not conform to the provisions of this Agreement, 
they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party’s commitments or obligations 
under the Agreement. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding Article 7.9 (Transfers and Payments) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border 
Trade  in  Services)  and  Article  12.12  (Transfers)  of  Chapter  12  (Investment),  as 
incorporated into this Chapter, a Party may prevent or limit transfers by a financial 
institution  or  cross-border  financial  service  supplier  to,  or  for  the  benefit  of,  an 
affiliate of or person related to such institution or supplier, through the equitable,  
non-discriminatory and good faith application of measures relating to maintenance of 
                                                           
4   The Parties understand that the term “prudential reasons” may include the maintenance of the safety, 
soundness, integrity or financial responsibility of individual financial service suppliers. 
10-10 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
the safety, soundness, integrity or financial responsibility of financial institutions or 
cross-border financial service suppliers. This paragraph does not prejudice any other 
provision of this Agreement that permits a Party to restrict transfers. 
 
4.  For  greater  certainty,  nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  the 
adoption or enforcement by a Party of measures necessary to secure compliance with 
laws or regulations that are not inconsistent with this Chapter, including those relating 
to the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to deal with the effects of a 
default on financial services contracts, subject to the requirement that such measures 
are  not  applied  in  a  manner  which  would  constitute  a  means  of  arbitrary  or 
unjustifiable discrimination  between countries  where like conditions  prevail, or a 
disguised restriction on investment in financial institutions or cross-border trade in 
financial services.  
 
Article 10.15 
Consultation 
 
1.  A Party may request consultations with the other Party regarding any matter arising 
under  this  Agreement  that  affects  financial  services.  The  other  Party  shall  give 
sympathetic consideration to the request. The Parties shall report the results of their 
consultations  to  the  Joint  Committee  established  pursuant  to  Article  18.1  (Joint 
Committee) of Chapter 18 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions). 
 
2.  Consultations under this Article shall include officials of the relevant authorities.  
 
3.  Nothing  in  this  Article  shall  be  construed  to  require  regulatory  authorities 
participating in consultations under paragraph 1 to disclose information or take any 
action that would interfere with specific regulatory, supervisory, administrative, or 
enforcement matters. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require a Party to derogate from its 
relevant  law  regarding  sharing  of  information  among  financial  regulators  or  the 
requirements of an agreement or arrangement between financial authorities of the 
Parties. 
 
Article 10.16 
Dispute Settlement 
 
1.  Except otherwise provided for, Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement) applies as modified 
by this Article to the settlement of disputes arising under this Chapter.  
 
2.  When a Party claims that a dispute arises under this Chapter, the arbitration panel 
shall compose: 
 
(a)  where the disputing Parties so agree, entirely of panelists meeting the criteria 
set out in paragraph 3; and 
 
(b)  in any other case, panelists meeting the criteria set out in either paragraph 3 or  
in  paragraph  6  of  Article  17.7  (Composition  and  Establishment  of  the 
Arbitration Panel) of Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement). 
10-11 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
 
However, the chair of the panel shall meet the criteria set out in paragraph 3 if Article 
10.14 (Exceptions) is invoked by the Party complained against, unless the Parties 
agree otherwise. 
 
3.  Financial services panelists shall: 
 
(a)  have expertise or experience in financial services law or practice, which may 
include the regulation of financial institutions; 
 
(b)  be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability and sound judgment; 
and 
 
(c)  meet the criteria set out in paragraph 6 of Article 17.7 (Composition and 
Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) of Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
4.  Notwithstanding  Article  17.11  (Compensation  and  Suspension  of  Concessions  or 
Other Obligations) of Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement), where a panel finds a measure 
to be inconsistent with this Agreement and the measure under dispute affects: 
 
(a)  only the financial services sector, the complaining Party may suspend benefits 
only in the financial services sector; 
 
(b)  the financial services sector and any other sector, the complaining Party may 
suspend benefits in the financial services sector that have an effect equivalent 
to the effect of the measure in the Party’s financial services sector; or 
 
(c)  only a sector other than the financial service sector, the complaining Party 
may not suspend benefits in the financial services sector. 
  
Article 10.17 
Modification or Addition of Reservations 
 
1.   A Party (referred to in the following paragraphs as the “modifying Party”) may, in 
accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3, modify or add to its non-conforming measures as 
set out in Annex 10-A and 10-B. 
 
2.   Such modifications or additions shall not:  
 
(a)   be  introduced  for  the  purpose  of  affording  undue  protection  to  financial 
institutions of the modifying Party; and 
 
(b)   discriminate between the other Party and any non-Party, except for measures 
that  accord  differential  treatment  to  any  non-Party  under  any  bilateral  or 
multilateral international agreement between either Party and such non-Party 
in force or signed prior to, on or after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
3.   The modifying Party may only make such modifications or additions if it: 
 
10-12 
 Chapter 10-Financial Services 
 
(a)   notifies the other Party in writing of its intent at least three months prior to the 
date of implementation of the measure; 
 
(b)   begins consultations with the other Party upon request by that other Party and 
gives  due  consideration  to  the  views  expressed  by  that  Party  in  such 
consultations with an agreement on the appropriate compensatory adjustments; 
and 
 
(c)   makes compensatory adjustments to its Schedule to Annex 10-A or Annex 10-
B  in  accordance  with  any  agreement  reached  between  the  Parties  on 
compensatory adjustments, to the extent possible in the same sector or sub-
sector of the financial institution that is affected by the modification so as to 
maintain a general level of mutually advantageous commitments that is not 
less  favourable  to  investments  and  trade  in  financial  services  than  that 
provided for in its Schedule prior to the modification. 
 
4.   If agreement is  not  reached between the Parties on any necessary compensatory 
adjustments,  the  matter  may  be  referred  to  arbitration  in  accordance  with  the 
procedures set out in Chapter 17 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
5.  Paragraph 1 of this Article  shall not be construed to prejudice the right of both Parties 
to  maintain  any  existing  measures  or  adopt  new  measures  consistent  with  the 
reservations set out in Annex 10-A and Annex 10-B.  
 
10-13 
 