Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
   
CHAPTER 2 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
SECTION 2-A 
COMMON PROVISIONS 
 
Article 2.1 
Objective 
 
The Parties shall progressively and reciprocally liberalise trade in goods over a transitional 
period starting from the entry into force of this Agreement in accordance with this Agreement 
and in conformity with Article XXIV of the GATT 1994. 
 
Article 2.2 
Scope 
 
This Chapter shall apply to trade in goods between the Parties.  
 
Article 2.3 
National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in accordance with 
Article III of the GATT 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions. To this end, 
the  obligations  contained  in  Article  III  of  the  GATT  1994,  including  its  Notes  and 
Supplementary Provisions, are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis.  
 
Article 2.4 
Customs Duty 
 
1.   For the purposes of this Chapter, a customs duty includes any duty or charge of any 
kind imposed on or in connection with the importation or exportation of a good, 
including any form of surtax or surcharge imposed on or in connection with such 
importation or exportation. 
  
2.   A “customs duty” does not include any: 
 
(a)  charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article 2.3 
(National Treatment); 
 
(b)  duty imposed consistently with Chapter 3 (Trade Remedies); 
 
(c)  duties applied consistently with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture and 
the DSU;  
 
(d)  fee  or  other  charge  imposed  consistently  with  Article  2.10  (Fees  and 
Formalities Connected with Importation and Exportation).  
2-1 
 Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
   
 
Article 2.5 
Classification of Goods 
 
The classification of goods in trade between the Parties shall be governed by each Party’s 
respective tariff nomenclature in conformity with the HS and its amendments.   
 
SECTION 2-B 
REDUCTION AND/OR ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
Article 2.6 
Reduction and/or Elimination of Customs Duties on Imports 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  reduce  and/or  eliminate  its  customs  duties  on  imported  goods 
originating in the other Party in accordance with the Schedules set out in Annex 2-A 
(Elimination of Customs Duties).  
 
2.  The base rate of customs duties on imports, to which the successive reductions are to 
be applied under paragraph 1, shall be that specified in the Schedules in Annex 2-A 
(Elimination of Customs Duties).  
 
3.  If  at  any  moment  a  Party  reduces  its  applied  most  favoured  nation  (hereinafter 
referred to as “MFN”) customs duty rates on imports after the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement, that duty rate shall apply if and for as long as it is lower than the 
customs duty rate on imports calculated in accordance with its Schedule in Annex 2-A 
(Elimination of Customs Duties). 
 
4.  Three years after the entry into force of this Agreement, on the request of either Party, 
the Parties shall consult to consider accelerating and broadening the scope of the 
reduction and elimination of customs duties on imports. A decision by the Parties in 
the Joint Committee on such acceleration or broadening shall supersede any duty rate 
or staging category determined pursuant to their Schedules for that good.  
 
Article 2.7 
Elimination of Customs Duties and Taxes on Exports 
 
Neither Party shall maintain or institute any customs duty or tax on or in connection with the 
exportation or sale for export of goods to the other Party, or any internal taxes on goods 
exported to the other Party that are in excess of those imposed on like goods destined for 
internal sale. 
 
Article 2.8 
Standstill 
 
Except as provided in Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties), upon the entry into force 
of the Agreement, neither Party shall increase any existing customs duty or introduce any 
new customs duty, on the importation of a good originating in the other Party. This shall not 
2-2 
 Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
   
preclude either Party from raising a customs duty to the level established in its Schedule in 
Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties) following a unilateral reduction of its applied 
MFN customs duty rates on imports. 
 
SECTION 2-C 
NON-TARIFF MEASURES 
 
Article 2.9 
Import and Export Restrictions 
 
1.  Neither Party shall adopt or maintain any prohibition or restriction on the importation 
of any good of the other Party or on the exportation or sale for export of any good 
destined for the territory of the other Party, in accordance with Article XI of the 
GATT 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions. To this end Article 
XI of the GATT 1994, its Notes and Supplementary Provisions are incorporated into 
and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
 2.  The Parties understand that before taking any measures provided for in subparagraph 
2(a) of Article XI of the GATT 1994, the Party intending to take the measures shall 
supply the other Party with all relevant information, with a view to seeking a solution 
acceptable to the Parties. The Parties may agree on any means needed to put an end to 
the  difficulties.  If  no  agreement  is  reached  within  30  days  of  supplying  such 
information,  the  exporting  Party  may  apply  measures  under  this  Article  on  the 
exportation of the good concerned. Where  exceptional  and critical  circumstances 
requiring immediate action make prior information or examination impossible, the 
Party intending to take the measures may apply forthwith the precautionary measures 
necessary to deal with the situation and shall inform the other Party immediately 
thereof. 
 
Article 2.10 
Fees and Formalities Connected with Importation and Exportation 
 
Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with Article VIII of the GATT 1994, including its 
Notes and Supplementary provisions, that all fees and charges of whatever character (other 
than  customs  duties,  and  measures  listed  in  paragraphs  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of  Article  2.4 
(Customs Duty) imposed on or in connection with importation or exportation of goods are 
limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered, which shall not be calculated 
on an ad valorem basis, and shall not represent an indirect protection to domestic goods or a 
taxation of imports or exports for fiscal purposes.  
 
Article 2.11 
Import and Export Licensing Procedures 
 
1.  The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations under the Import Licensing 
Agreement. 
 
2-3 
 Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
   
2.  The Parties shall introduce and administer any import or export licensing procedures1 
in accordance with: 
 
(a)  Paragraphs 1 through 9 of Article 1 of the Import Licensing Agreement; 
 
(b)  Article 2 of the Import Licensing Agreement; and 
 
(c)  Article 3 of the Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
To  this  end,  the  provisions  referred  to  in  subparagraphs  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of  this 
paragraph are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement. The Parties shall 
apply those provisions, mutatis mutandis, for any export licensing procedures. 
 
3.   The Parties shall ensure that all export licensing procedures are neutral in application 
and administered in a fair, equitable, non-discriminatory and transparent manner.  
 
4.   The Parties shall only adopt  or maintain licensing procedures as a condition  for 
importation into its territory or exportation from its territory to the other Party when 
other appropriate procedures to achieve an administrative purpose are not reasonably 
available. 
 
5.   The Parties shall not adopt or maintain non-automatic import or export licensing 
procedures  unless  necessary  to  implement  a  measure  that  is  consistent  with  this 
Agreement. Any Party adopting non-automatic licensing procedures shall indicate 
clearly the measure being implemented through such licensing procedure. 
 
6.  Each Party shall respond within 60 days to a reasonable enquiry from the other Party 
regarding:  (i)  any  licensing  procedures  which  the  Party  intends  to  adopt  or  has 
adopted or maintained; or (ii) the criteria for granting and/or allocating import or 
export licenses.  
 
Article 2.12 
Publication 
 
Each Party shall promptly publish the following information in a non-discriminatory and 
easily accessible manner, in order to enable interested parties to become acquainted with 
them: 
   
(a)  importation, exportation and transit procedures (including port, airport, and 
other entry-point procedures) and required forms and documents; 
 
(b)   applied rates of duties, and taxes of any kind imposed on or in connection with 
importation or exportation; 
                                                 
1  For the purposes of this Article, “non-automatic licensing procedures” means licensing procedures 
  where approval of the application is not granted for all legal and natural persons who fulfil the 
  requirements of the Party concerned for engaging in import or export operations involving the goods 
  subject to licensing procedures. 
2-4 
 Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
   
 
(c)   rules for the classification or the valuation of products for customs purposes; 
 
(d)   laws, regulations and administrative rulings of general application relating to 
rules of origin; 
 
(e)   import, export or transit restrictions or prohibitions; 
 
(f)   fees and charges imposed on or in connection with importation, exportation or 
transit; 
 
(g)  penalty provisions against breaches of import, export or transit formalities; 
   
(h)   appeal procedures; 
 
(i)   agreements  or  parts  thereof  with  any  country  or  countries  relating  to  
importation, exportation or transit; and 
   
(j)   administrative procedures relating to the imposition of tariff quotas. 
 
Article 2.13 
State Trading Enterprises 
 
1.  The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations under Article XVII of the 
GATT 1994, its Notes and Supplementary Provisions and the Understanding on the 
Interpretation of Article XVII of the GATT 1994, contained in Annex 1-A to the WTO 
Agreement, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, 
mutatis mutandis.  
 
2.  The Parties may request information from the other Party bilaterally as foreseen in 
subparagraphs 4(c) and 4(d) of Article XVII of the GATT 1994. 
 
SECTION 2-D 
SPECIFIC EXCEPTIONS RELATED TO GOODS 
 
Article 2.14 
General Exceptions 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter prevents the taking of measures in accordance with Article 
XX  of  GATT  1994,  its  Notes  and  Supplementary  Provisions,  which  are  hereby 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  The Parties understand that before taking any measures provided for in paragraphs (i) 
and (j) of Article XX of GATT 1994, the exporting Party intending to take the 
measures shall supply the other Party with all relevant information, with a view to 
seeking a solution acceptable to the Parties. The Parties may agree on any means 
needed to put an end to the difficulties.  If no agreement is reached within thirty days, 
2-5 
 Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
   
the exporting Party may apply measures under this Article on the exportation of the 
good concerned. Where exceptional and critical circumstances requiring immediate 
action make prior information or examination impossible, the Party intending to take 
the measures may apply forthwith the precautionary measures necessary to deal with 
the situation and shall inform the other Party immediately thereof. 
 
2-6 
 