 
PROTOCOL 1 
 
CONCERNING THE DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF “ORIGINATING 
PRODUCTS” AND METHODS OF ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
SECTION 1  
 
General Provisions  
Article 1 Definitions  
 
SECTION 2  
 
Definition of the Concept of “Originating Products”  
Article 2 Originating Products 
Article 3 Cumulation of Origin  
Article 4 Wholly Obtained Products  
Article 5 Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products  
Article 6 Insufficient Working or Processing  
Article 7 Unit of Qualification  
Article 8 Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  
Article 9 Sets  
Article 10 Neutral Elements  
Article 11 Accounting Segregation  
 
SECTION 3  
 
Territorial Requirements  
Article 12 Principle of Territoriality  
Article 13 Non Alteration  
Article 14 Exhibitions  
 
SECTION 4  
 
Origin Declaration  
Article 15 General Requirements  
Article 16 Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration  
Article 17 Validity of Origin Declaration 
Article 18 Submission of Origin Declaration 
Article 19 Importation by Instalments 
Article 20 Exemptions from Origin Declaration 
Article 21 Supporting Documents 
Article 22 Preservation of Origin Declaration and Supporting Documents 
Article 23 Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
Article 24 Amounts Expressed in Euro 
 
      1 
  
SECTION 5  
 
Arrangements for Administrative Cooperation  
Article 25 Cooperation between Competent Authorities  
Article 26 Verification of Origin Declarations  
Article 27 Third Party Invoice  
Article 28 Settlement of Disputes 
Article 29 Penalties  
 
SECTION 6  
 
Final Provisions  
Article 30 Confidentiality 
Article 31 Amendments to this Protocol  
Article 32 Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage  
Article 33 Review and Appeal 
 
 
List of Annexes  
 
ANNEX A:   INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX B  
 
ANNEX B:   LIST  OF  WORKING  OR  PROCESSING  REQUIRED  TO  BE 
CARRIED OUT ON NON-ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER 
THAT  THE  PRODUCT  MANUFACTURED  CAN  OBTAIN 
ORIGINATING STATUS  
 
ANNEX B(a):   ADDENDUM  TO  THE  LIST  OF  WORKING  OR  PROCESSING 
REQUIRED  TO  BE  CARRIED  OUT  ON  NON-ORIGINATING 
MATERIALS  IN  ORDER  THAT  THE  PRODUCT 
MANUFACTURED CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS  
 
ANNEX C:   MATERIALS  EXCLUDED  FROM  CUMULATION  UNDER 
PARAGRAPH 5 OF ARTICLE 3 (CUMULATION OF ORIGIN)   
 
ANNEX D:   PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 12 OF ARTICLE 3 
(CUMULATION  OF  ORIGIN)  FOR  WHICH  MATERIALS 
ORIGINATING  IN  AN  ASEAN  COUNTRY  SHALL  BE 
CONSIDERED AS MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN A PARTY  
 
ANNEX E:   TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION  
 
      2 
  
SECTION 1 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 1 
Definitions 
 
1.   For the purposes of this Protocol:  
 
(a)   “ASEAN country” means a member state of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations which is not a Party to this Agreement;  
 
(b)   “chapters” and “headings” and “subheadings” mean the chapters, the headings 
and sub-headings used in the nomenclature which makes up the Harmonized 
System with the changes pursuant to the Recommendation of 26 June 2004 of 
the Customs Cooperation Council;  
 
(c)  “classified”  refers  to  the  classification  of  a  product  or  material  under  a 
particular chapter, heading, or sub-heading of the Harmonized System;  
 
(d)   “consignment” means products which are either sent simultaneously from one 
exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering 
their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a 
document, by a single invoice;  
 
(e)   “customs  value”  means  the  value  as  determined  in  accordance  with  the 
Customs Valuation Agreement;  
 
(f)   “ex-works  price”  means  the  price  paid  for  the  product  ex-works  to  the 
manufacturer in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried 
out, provided that the price includes the value of all the materials used and all 
other costs related to its production, minus any internal taxes which are, or 
may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported;  
 
  Where  the  actual  price  paid  does  not  reflect  all  costs  related  to  the 
manufacturing of the product which are actually incurred in Turkey or in 
Singapore, the ex-works price means the sum of all those costs, minus any 
internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is 
exported;  
 
(g)   “fungible  materials”  means  materials  that  are  of  the  same  kind  and 
commercial quality, with the same technical and physical characteristics, and 
which cannot be distinguished from one another once they are incorporated 
into the finished product;  
     
(h)   “goods” means both materials and products;  
 
      3 
  
(i)   “manufacture” means any kind of working or processing including assembly; 
 
(j)   “material” means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used in 
the manufacture of the product; 
 
(k)  “product” means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for 
later use in another manufacturing operation; and  
 
(l)  “value of materials” means the customs value at the time of importation of the 
non-originating  materials  used,  or,  if  this  is  not  known  and  cannot  be 
ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in Turkey or in 
Singapore.  
     
2.   For the purposes of subparagraph 1(f), where the last working or processing has been 
subcontracted to a manufacturer, the term “manufacturer” may refer to the enterprise 
that has employed the subcontractor.  
 
SECTION 2 
 
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF “ORIGINATING PRODUCTS” 
 
Article 2 
  Originating Products 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating 
in a Party:  
 
(a)  products wholly obtained in a Party within the meaning of Article 4; and  
 
(b)  products obtained in a Party incorporating materials which have not been 
wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient 
working or processing in the Party concerned within the meaning of Article 5.  
 
Article 3 
Cumulation of Origin 
 
1.   Notwithstanding Article 2 (Originating Products), products shall be considered as 
originating in a Party if such products are obtained there by incorporating materials 
originating in the other Party, provided that the working or processing carried out 
goes  beyond  the  operations  referred  to  in  Article  6  (Insufficient  Working  or 
Processing).  It  shall  not  be  necessary  that  the  materials  of  the  other  Party  have 
undergone sufficient working or processing.  
 
2.   Notwithstanding  paragraph  1,  materials  falling  under  HS  Chapters  25  to  97 
originating in the European Union shall be considered as materials originating in 
Turkey or Singapore when further processed or incorporated into a product obtained 
in Singapore or Turkey, as the case may be. 
      4 
  
   
3.   In order for the products referred to in paragraph 2 to acquire originating status, it 
shall  not  be  necessary  that  the  materials  have  undergone  sufficient  working  or 
processing, provided that: 
 
(a)  the working or processing of the materials carried out in Turkey or Singapore   
goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or 
Processing); 
 
(b)   the materials were originating in the European Union, in accordance with the 
rules of origin identical to those that would have applied if the said materials 
were exported directly to Turkey or Singapore; and  
 
(c)   Turkey, Singapore and the European Union have arrangements which allow 
for  adequate  administrative  cooperation  procedures  ensuring  full 
implementation of this cumulation mechanism as well as certification and 
verification of origin of the products. 
  
4.   The cumulation established in Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be applied provided that 
preferential trade agreements in accordance with Article XXIV of the GATT between 
Turkey and the European Union, Singapore and the European Union, and Turkey and 
Singapore, are in force. 
 
5.   Materials falling under HS Chapters 25 to 97 originating in an ASEAN country which 
is applying with Turkey a preferential agreement in accordance with Article XXIV of 
the  GATT  1994,  shall  be  considered  as  materials  originating  in  a  Party  when 
incorporated in a product obtained in that Party provided that they have undergone 
working or processing in that Party which goes beyond the operations referred to in 
Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing).  
 
6.   For the purposes of paragraph 5, the origin of the materials shall be determined 
according to the rules of origin applicable in the framework of Turkey’s preferential 
agreements with those countries.  
 
7.   For the purposes of paragraph 5, the originating status of materials exported from one 
of the ASEAN countries to a Party to be used in further working or processing shall 
be established by a proof of origin under which these materials could be exported 
directly to Turkey.  
 
8.   The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 5 to 10 may only be applied provided that:  
 
(a)   the ASEAN countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status have 
undertaken to:  
 
(i)   comply or ensure compliance with this Protocol; and 
 
      5 
  
(ii)  provide the administrative cooperation necessary to ensure the 
correct  implementation  of  this  Protocol  both  with  regard  to 
Turkey and among themselves;  
 
(b)  the undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) have been notified to the 
Turkey.  
 
9.   Origin declarations issued by application of paragraph 7 shall bear the following 
entry:  
 
 “Application  of  Article  3  (Cumulation  of  Origin)  of  Protocol  1  of  the 
Turkey/Singapore FTA”. 
 
10.   The  materials  listed  in  Annex  C  to  this  Protocol  shall  be  excluded  from  the 
cumulation provided for in paragraphs 5 to 9 where at the time of importation of the 
product:  
 
(a)   the tariff preference applicable to the materials in a Party is not the same for all 
the countries involved in the cumulation; and  
 
(b)   the  materials  concerned  would  benefit,  through  cumulation,  from  a  tariff 
treatment more favourable than the one they would benefit from if directly 
exported to a Party.  
 
11.   At the request of a Party, the Parties may, by decision in the Joint Committee, modify 
Annex C to this Protocol. Any request for such a modification shall be communicated 
to the other Party at least two months before the meeting of that Committee.  
 
12.   Materials  originating  in  an  ASEAN  country  shall  be  considered  as  materials 
originating in a Party when further processed or incorporated into one of the products 
listed in Annex D to this Protocol obtained there, provided that they have undergone 
working or processing in that Party which goes beyond the operations referred to in 
Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing).  
 
13.   For the purposes of paragraph 12, the origin of the materials shall be determined 
according  to  the  preferential  rules  of  origin  applicable  to  General  System  of 
Preferences (hereinafter referred to as “GSP”) beneficiary countries which are laid 
down in the related Ministerial Decree of Turkey. 
 
14.  For the purposes of paragraph 12, the originating status of materials exported from 
one of the ASEAN countries to a Party to be used in further working or processing 
shall be established by a proof of origin in accordance with the preferential rules 
applicable to GSP beneficiary countries as laid down in the related Ministerial Decree 
of Turkey.  
 
15.   The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 12 to 15 may only be applied provided 
that:  
      6 
  
 
(a)  the ASEAN countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status have 
undertaken to:  
 
 (i)  comply or ensure compliance with this Protocol; and 
  
(ii)  provide the administrative cooperation necessary to ensure the 
correct  implementation  of  this  Protocol  both  with  regard  to 
Turkey and between themselves;  
 
  (b)  the undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) have been notified to the 
  Turkey.  
 
16.   Origin declarations issued by application of paragraph 12 shall bear the following 
entry:  
   
    “Application  of  Article  3(Cumulation  of  Origin)  of  Protocol  1  of  the 
  Turkey/Singapore FTA”.  
   
 
17.  At the request of a Party, the Parties may, by decision in the Joint Committee, modify 
Annex D to this Protocol. Any request for such a modification shall be communicated 
to the other Party at least two months before the meeting of the Committee.  
 
18.   The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 12 to 16shall cease to apply when the 
conditions of paragraphs 5 to 10 are met. 
 
Article 4 
Wholly Obtained Products 
 
1.   The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in a Party: 
  
(a)  mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed;  
 
(b)  plants and vegetable products grown or harvested there;  
 
(c)  live animals born and raised there;  
 
(d)  products from live animals raised there; 
 
(e)  products from slaughtered animals born and raised there; 
 
(f)  products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; 
 
(g)  products of aquaculture, where the fish, crustaceans and molluscs are born and 
raised there; 
 
      7 
  
(h)  products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the 
territorial seas of a Party by their vessels; 
 
(i)  products made aboard their factory ships exclusively from products referred to 
in subparagraph (h); 
 
(j)  used articles collected there fit only for the recovery of raw materials;  
 
(k)  waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; 
 
(l)  products extracted from marine soil or subsoil outside their territorial seas 
provided that they have sole rights to work that soil or subsoil; and 
 
(m)   goods produced there exclusively from products specified in subparagraphs (a) 
to (l).  
 
2.   The terms “their vessels” and “'their factory ships” in subparagraphs 1(h) and 1(i) 
shall apply only to vessels and factory ships:  
 
(a)  which are registered in Turkey or in Singapore;  
 
(b)  which sail under the flag of Turkey or of Singapore; and  
 
(c)   which meet one of the following conditions:  
 
(i)  they are at least fifty percent owned by nationals of Turkey or of 
Singapore; or  
   
  (ii)  they are owned by companies:  
 
(A)  which have their head office and their main place of business in 
Turkey or Singapore, and  
 
(B)  which  are  at  least  fifty  percent  owned  by  Turkey  or  by 
Singapore, by public entities or nationals of a Party.  
 
Article 5 
Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products 
 
1.   For the purposes of subparagraph (b) of Article 2 (Originating Products), products 
which are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed 
when the conditions set out in the list in Annex B or B(a) to this Protocol are fulfilled. 
 
      8 
  
2.   The conditions referred to above indicate, for all products covered by this Agreement, 
the working or processing which must be carried out on non-originating materials 
used in manufacturing and apply only in relation to such materials. It follows that if a 
product which has acquired originating status by fulfilling the conditions set out in the 
list in Annex B or B(a) to this Protocol is used in the manufacture of another product, 
the conditions applicable to the product in which it is incorporated do not apply to it, 
and no account shall be taken of the non-originating materials which may have been 
used in its manufacture.  
 
3.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1 and subject to paragraphs 4 and 5, non-
originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list in Annex B 
or B(a) to this Protocol, are not to be used in the manufacture of a given product may 
nevertheless be used, provided that their total value or net weight assessed for the 
product does not exceed:  
 
(a)  ten percent of the weight of the product for products falling within Chapters 2 
and 4 to 24 of the Harmonized System, other than processed fishery products 
of Chapter 16;  
 
(b)  ten percent of the ex-works price of the product for other products, except for 
products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonized System, for 
which the tolerances mentioned in Notes 6 and 7 of Annex A to this Protocol, 
shall apply.  
 
4.   Paragraph 3 shall not allow to exceed any of the percentages for the maximum content 
of non-originating materials as specified in the list in Annex B to this Protocol.  
 
5.   Paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not apply to products wholly obtained in a Party within the 
meaning of Article 4 (Wholly Obtained Products). However, without prejudice to 
Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing) and paragraph 2 of Article 7 (Unit of 
Qualification) the tolerance provided for in those paragraphs shall nevertheless apply 
to the sum of all the materials which are used in the manufacture of a product and for 
which the rule laid down in the list in Annex B to this Protocol for that product 
requires that such materials be wholly obtained.  
 
Article 6 
Insufficient Working or Processing 
 
1.   Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as 
insufficient  working  or  processing  to  confer  the  status  of  originating  products, 
whether  or  not  the  requirements  of  Article  5  (Sufficiently  Worked  or  Processed 
Products) are satisfied:  
 
(a)   preserving operations to ensure that the products remain in good condition 
during transport and storage;  
 
(b)   breaking-up and assembly of packages;  
      9 
  
 
(c)   washing, cleaning; removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings;  
 
(d)   ironing or pressing of textiles and textile articles;  
 
(e)  simple painting and polishing operations;  
 
(f)   husking and partial or total milling of rice; polishing and glazing of cereals 
and rice;  
 
(g)   operations to colour or flavour sugar or form sugar lumps; partial or total 
milling of crystal sugar;  
 
(h)   peeling, stoning and shelling, of fruits, nuts and vegetables;  
 
(i)   sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting;  
 
(j)   sifting,  screening,  sorting,  classifying,  grading,  matching  (including  the 
making-up of sets of articles);  
 
(k)   simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or 
boards and all other simple packaging operations;  
 
(l)   affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs on 
products or their packaging;  
 
(m)  simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds; mixing of sugar 
with any material;  
 
(n)  simple addition of water or dilution or dehydration or denaturation of products;  
 
(o)  simple  assembly  of  parts  of  articles  to  constitute  a  complete  article  or 
disassembly of products into parts;  
 
(p)   a combination of two or more of the operations specified in subparagraphs (a) 
to (o); or  
 
(q)   slaughter of animals.  
 
2.   For the purpose of paragraph 1, operations shall be considered simple when neither 
special skills nor machines, apparatus or tools especially produced or installed for 
those operations are required for their performance.  
 
3.   All operations carried out either in Turkey or in Singapore on a given product shall be 
considered together when determining whether the working or processing undergone 
by that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of paragraph 1.  
 
      10 
  
Article 7 
Unit of Qualification 
 
1.   The unit of qualification for the application of the provisions of this Protocol shall be 
the product which is considered as the basic unit when determining classification 
using the nomenclature of the Harmonized System.  
 
2.   When a consignment consists of a number of identical products classified under the 
same heading of the Harmonized System, each individual item shall be taken into 
account when applying the provisions of this Protocol.  
 
  Where, under General Interpretative Rule 5 of the Harmonized System, packaging is 
included with the product for classification purposes, it shall be included for the 
purposes of determining origin.  
 
Article 8 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus 
or vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which 
are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, 
apparatus or vehicle in question. 
 
Article 9 
Sets 
 
Sets, as defined in General Interpretative Rule 3 of the Harmonized System, shall be regarded 
as originating when all component products are originating products. When a set is composed 
of  originating  and  non-originating  products,  the  set  as  a  whole  shall  be  regarded  as 
originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed fifteen 
percent of the ex-works price of the set.  
 
Article 10 
Neutral Elements 
 
In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the 
origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture:  
 
(a)   energy and fuel;    
 
(b)   plant and equipment, including goods to be used for their maintenance;    
 
      11 
  
(c)   machines and tools and dies and moulds; spare parts and materials used in the 
maintenance of equipment and buildings; lubricants, greases, compounding 
materials and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment 
and  buildings;  gloves,  glasses,  footwear,  clothing,  safety  equipment  and 
supplies; equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or inspecting the 
good; catalyst and solvent; and  
 
(d)   other goods which do not enter and which are not intended to enter into the 
final composition of the product.  
 
Article 11 
Accounting Segregation 
 
1.   If  originating  and  non-originating  fungible  materials  are  used  in  the  working  or 
processing of a product, the competent governmental authorities may, at the written 
request  of  economic  operators,  authorise  the  management  of  materials  using  the 
accounting segregation method without keeping the materials in separate stocks.  
 
2.   The  competent  governmental  authorities  may  make  the  granting  of  authorisation 
referred to in paragraph 1 subject to any conditions they deem appropriate.  
 
3.   The  authorisation  shall  be  granted  only  if  by  use  of  the  accounting  segregation 
method it can be ensured that, at any time, the number of products obtained which 
could be considered as originating in Turkey or in Singapore is the same as the 
number that would have been obtained by using a method of physical segregation of 
the stocks. 
 
4.   If authorised, the method such as averaging, last-in, first-out, or first-in, first-out, shall 
be applied and the application thereof shall be recorded on the basis of the general 
accounting principles applicable in Turkey or in Singapore, depending on where the 
product is manufactured.  
 
5.   A manufacturer using the accounting segregation method shall make out or apply for 
origin  declarations  for  the  quantity  of  products  which  may  be  considered  as 
originating  in  the  exporting  Party.  At  the  request  of  the  customs  authorities  or 
competent  governmental  authorities  of  the  exporting  Party,  the  beneficiary  shall 
provide a statement of how the quantities have been managed.  
 
6.   The  competent  governmental  authorities  shall  monitor  the  use  made  of  the 
authorisation referred to in paragraph 3 and may withdraw it if the manufacturer 
makes improper use of it or fails to fulfil any of the other conditions laid down in this 
Protocol.  
 
      12 
  
SECTION 3 
 
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
Article 12 
Principle of Territoriality 
 
1.   The  conditions  set  out  in  Section  2  (Definition  of  the  Concept  of  “Originating 
Products”) relating to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without 
interruption in a Party.  
 
2.   If  originating  goods  exported  from  a  Party  to  a  non-Party  return,  they  must  be 
considered as non-originating, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
customs authorities that:  
 
(a)  the returning goods are the same as those exported; and  
 
(b)   they have not undergone any operation beyond that necessary to preserve them 
in good condition while in that non-Party or while being exported.  
 
Article 13 
Non Alteration 
 
1.   The  products  declared  for  importation  in  a  Party  shall  be  the  same  products  as 
exported from the other Party in which they are considered to originate. They shall 
not have been altered, transformed in any way or subjected to operations other than 
operations to preserve them in good condition or other than adding or affixing marks, 
labels, seals or any other documentation to ensure compliance with specific domestic 
requirements of the importing Party, prior to being declared for import.  
 
2.  Storage of products or consignments may take place provided they remain under 
customs supervision in the country(ies) of transit.  
 
3.   Without prejudice to Section 4 (Origin Declaration), the splitting of consignments 
may take place where carried out by the exporter or under his responsibility provided 
they remain under customs supervision in the country(ies) of transit.  
 
4.   Compliance with paragraphs 1 to 3 shall be considered as satisfied unless the customs 
authorities have reason to believe the contrary; in such cases, the customs authorities 
may request the declarant to provide evidence of compliance, which may be given by 
any  means,  including  contractual  transport  documents  such  as  bills  of  lading  or 
factual or concrete evidence based on marking or numbering of packages or any 
evidence related to the goods themselves.  
 
Article 14 
Exhibitions 
 
      13 
  
1.  Originating products, sent for exhibition in a country other than a Party and sold after 
the  exhibition  for  importation  in  a  Party  shall  benefit  on  importation  from  the 
provisions of this Agreement provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs 
authorities that:  
 
(a)   an exporter has consigned these products from a Party to the country in which 
the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there;  
 
(b)   the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a 
person in a Party;  
 
(c)   the  products  have  been  consigned  during  the  exhibition  or  immediately 
thereafter in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; and  
 
(d)   the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for 
any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition.  
 
2.   An origin declaration shall be issued or made out in accordance with the provisions of 
Section  4  (Origin  Declaration)  and  submitted  to  the  customs  authorities  of  the 
importing Party in the normal manner. The name and address of the exhibition must 
be  indicated  thereon.  Where  necessary,  additional  documentary  evidence  of  the 
conditions under which they have been exhibited may be required.  
 
3.  Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, industrial, agricultural or crafts exhibition, fair or 
similar public show or display which is not organised for private purposes in shops or 
business premises with a view to the sale of foreign products, and during which the 
products remain under customs control.  
 
SECTION 4 
 
ORIGIN DECLARATION  
 
Article 15 
General Requirements 
 
1.   Products originating in Turkey shall, on importation into Singapore, and products 
originating in Singapore shall, on importation into Turkey, benefit from preferential 
tariff treatment  of this Agreement upon submission  of a declaration, (hereinafter 
referred to as “origin declaration”). The origin declaration is provided on an invoice 
or any other commercial document that describes the originating product in sufficient 
detail to enable its identification.  
 
2.   Originating products within the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified 
in Article 20 (Exemptions from Origin Declaration), benefit from preferential tariff 
treatment  of  this  Agreement  without  it  being  necessary  to  submit  any  of  the 
documents referred to in paragraph 1.  
 
      14 
  
Article 16 
Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration 
 
1.   An origin declaration as referred to in Article 15 (General Requirements) may be 
made out:  
(a)  in Turkey by any exporter; 
 
(b)  in Singapore by an exporter who is:  
 
(i)   registered with the competent authority and who has received a 
Unique Entity Number; and  
 
(ii)   complying  with  relevant  regulatory  provisions  in  Singapore 
pertaining to making out of origin declarations.  
 
2.   An origin declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be considered as 
products originating in Turkey or in Singapore and fulfil the other requirements of 
this Protocol.  
 
3.   The exporter making out an origin declaration shall be prepared to submit at any time, 
at  the  request  of  the  customs  authorities  of  the  exporting  Party,  all  appropriate 
documents  as  referred  to  under  Article  21  (Supporting  Documents)  proving  the 
originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other 
requirements of this Protocol.  
 
4.   An  origin  declaration  shall  be  made  out  in  English  by  the  exporter  by  typing, 
stamping  or  printing  on  the  invoice,  the  delivery  note  or  another  commercial 
document, the declaration, the text of which appears in Annex E to this Protocol, in 
accordance with the domestic law of the exporting Party. If the declaration is hand-
written, it shall be written in ink in capital characters. 
     
5.   Origin declarations shall bear the original signature of the exporter in manuscript.  
 
6.   An origin declaration may exceptionally be made out after exportation (“retrospective 
statement”) on condition that it is presented in the importing Party no later than two 
years, in the case of Turkey, and one year, in the case of Singapore, after the entry of 
the goods into the territory.  
 
Article 17 
Validity of Origin Declaration 
 
1.   An origin declaration shall be valid for 12 months from the date of issue in the 
exporting Party. Preferential tariff treatment shall be claimed within the said period to 
the customs authorities of the importing Party.  
 
      15 
  
2.   Origin declarations which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing 
Party after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for 
the purposes of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit these 
documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 
 
3.   In  cases  of  belated  presentation  other  than  those  of  paragraph  2,  the  customs 
authorities  of  the  importing  Party  may  accept  the  origin  declarations  where  the 
products have been submitted before the said final date. 
 
Article 18 
Submission of Origin Declaration 
 
For  the  purposes  of  claiming  preferential  tariff  treatment,  origin  declarations  shall  be 
submitted to the customs authorities of the importing Party in accordance with the procedures 
applicable in that Party. 
 
Article 19 
Importation by Instalments 
 
Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs 
authorities of the importing Party, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning 
of General Rule 2(a) of the Harmonized System falling within Sections XVI and XVII or 
headings 7308 and 9406 of the Harmonized System are imported by instalments, a single 
origin  declaration  for  such  products  shall  be  submitted  to  the  customs  authorities  upon 
importation of the first instalment.  
 
Article 20 
Exemptions from Origin Declaration 
 
1.   Products sent as small packages from private persons to private persons or forming 
part of travellers’ personal luggage shall be admitted as originating products without 
requiring the submission of an origin declaration, provided that such products are not 
imported by way of trade and have been declared as meeting the requirements of this 
Protocol and where there is no doubt as to the veracity of such a declaration. In the 
case of products sent by post, this declaration can be made on the customs declaration 
CN22/CN23 or on a sheet of paper annexed to that document. 
 
2.   Imports which are occasional and consist solely of products for the personal use of the 
recipients or travellers or their families shall not be considered as imports by way of 
trade if it is evident from the nature and quantity of the products that no commercial 
purpose is intended.  
 
3.   The total value of these products shall not exceed 500 euro in the case of small 
packages or 1200 euro in the case of products forming part of travellers’ personal 
luggage.  
      16 
  
Article 21 
Supporting Documents 
 
The documents referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 16 (Conditions for Making Out an Origin 
Declaration) used for the purpose of proving that products covered by an origin declaration 
can be considered as products originating in Turkey or in Singapore and fulfil the other 
requirements of this Protocol may consist, inter alia, of the following:  
 
(a)   direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to 
obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal 
book-keeping;  
 
(b)   documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out 
in a Party, where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; 
or  
 
(c)   documents proving the working or processing of materials in a Party, issued or 
made out in a Party, where these documents are used in accordance with 
domestic law.  
 
Article 22 
Preservation of Origin Declaration and Supporting Documents 
 
1.   The  exporter  making  out  an  origin  declaration  shall  keep  a  copy  of  this  origin 
declaration  as  well  as  the  documents  referred  to  in  paragraph  3  of  Article  16 
(Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration) for at least three years from the 
date on which the origin declaration was made out. 
 
2.   The customs authorities of the importing Party shall keep for at least three years from 
the date of importation of the good the origin declarations submitted to them. 
 
3.   Each  Party  shall  permit,  in  accordance  with  that  Party’s  laws  and  regulations, 
exporters  in  its  territory  to  maintain  documentation  or  records  in  any  medium, 
provided that the documentation or records can be retrieved and printed.  
 
Article 23 
Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
 
1.   The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the origin 
declaration and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the 
purposes of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto 
render the origin declaration null and void if it is duly established that this document 
does correspond to the products submitted.  
 
2.   Obvious formal errors such as typing errors on a origin declaration should not cause 
the document to be rejected if these errors are not such as to create doubts concerning 
the correctness of the statements made in the document. 
      17 
  
 
Article 24 
Amounts Expressed in Euro 
 
For the application of the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 20 (Exemptions from Origin 
Declaration) in cases where products are invoiced in a currency other than Euro, amounts in 
the national currencies of the Parties equivalent to the amounts expressed in Euro shall be 
determined in accordance with the current exchange rate applicable in the importing party  
 
SECTION 5 
 
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION 
 
Article 25 
Cooperation between Competent Authorities 
 
1.  The customs authorities of the Parties shall provide each other with the addresses of 
the customs authorities responsible for verifying the origin declarations.  
 
2.   In order to ensure the proper application of this Protocol, the Parties shall assist each 
other, through their competent authorities, in checking the authenticity of the origin 
declarations and the correctness of the information given in these documents.  
 
Article 26 
Verification of Origin Declarations 
 
1.   Subsequent  verifications of origin  declarations shall be carried out  at  random  or 
whenever the customs authorities of the importing Party have reasonable doubts as to 
the authenticity of such documents, the originating status of the products concerned or 
the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol.  
 
2.   For  the  purposes  of  implementing  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1,  the  customs 
authorities of the importing Party shall return, if it has been submitted, the origin 
declaration, or a copy of that document, to the customs authorities of the exporting 
Party giving, where appropriate, the reasons for the enquiry. Any document and 
information obtained suggesting that the information given on the origin declarations 
is incorrect shall be forwarded in support of the request for verification.  
 
3.   The verification shall be carried out by the customs authorities of the exporting Party. 
For this purpose, they shall have the right to call for any evidence and to carry out any 
inspection of the exporter's accounts or any other check considered appropriate.  
 
      18 
  
4.   If the customs authorities of the importing Party decide to suspend the granting of 
preferential treatment to the products concerned while awaiting the results of the 
verification, release of the products shall be offered to the importer subject to any 
precautionary measures judged necessary. Any suspension of preferential treatment 
shall be reinstated as soon as possible after the originating status of the products 
concerned  or  the  fulfilment  of  the  other  requirements  of  this  Protocol  has  been 
ascertained by the customs authorities of the importing Party.  
 
5.   The customs authorities requesting the verification shall be informed of the results of 
this verification as soon as possible. These results must indicate clearly whether the 
documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as 
products originating in the Parties and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol.  
 
6.   If in cases of reasonable doubt there is no reply within 10 months of the date of the 
verification request or if the reply does not contain sufficient information to determine 
the authenticity of the document in question or the real origin of the products, the 
requesting  customs  authorities  shall,  except  in  exceptional  circumstances,  refuse 
entitlement to the preferences. 
 
Article 27 
Third Party Invoice 
 
The customs authority of the importing Party may accept origin declarations in cases where 
the sales invoice is issued either by a company located in a third country or by an exporter for 
the account of the said company, provided that the goods meet the requirements of this 
Protocol. 
 
Article 28 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
1.   Where  disputes  arise  in  relation  to  the  verification  procedures  of  Article  26 
(Verification of Origin Declarations) which cannot be settled between the competent 
authorities requesting a verification  and the competent authorities responsible for 
carrying out this verification, or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of 
this Protocol, they shall be submitted to the Joint Committee. 
 
2.   All disputes between the importer and the competent authorities of the importing 
Party shall be settled under the legislation of that Party.  
 
Article 29 
Penalties 
 
Penalties shall be imposed in accordance with the relevant domestic legislation of the Parties 
on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect 
information for the purpose of obtaining preferential treatment for products.   
 
 
      19 
  
 
SECTION 6 
 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 30 
Confidentiality 
 
Each Party shall treat as confidential the information submitted in accordance with this 
Protocol by a person or authority of the other Party when such information is designated by 
that Party as confidential. Access to the said information may be refused where disclosure 
would undermine the protection of the commercial interest of the person that submitted the 
information. 
 
 
Article 31 
Amendments or modifications to this Protocol 
 
1.  The Parties may amend the provisions of this Protocol in accordance with Article 
18.10 (Amendments) of Chapter 18 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions).  
 
2.  Following the conclusion of a free  trade agreement between Turkey  and one or 
several  ASEAN  countries,  the  Parties  may,  by  decision  in  the  Joint Committee, 
modify or adapt this Protocol and in particular Annex C referred to in paragraph 10 of 
Article 3 (Cumulation of Origin) to ensure coherence between the rules of origin 
applicable within the context of the preferential exchanges between ASEAN countries 
and Turkey. 
   
Article 32 
Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage 
 
This Agreement may be applied to goods which comply with the provisions of this Protocol 
and which on the date of entry into force of this Agreement are either in transit, in the Parties 
in temporary storage, in customs warehouses or in free zones, subject to the submission to the 
customs authorities of the importing Party, no later than one year after the import of the 
goods  into  the  customs  territory  of  that  Party,  of  an  origin  declaration  made  out 
retrospectively in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 16 (Conditions for Making Out an 
Origin Declaration), and if requested together with the documents showing that the goods 
have been transported directly in accordance with Article 13 (Non Alteration).  
 
Article 33 
Review and Appeal 
 
The importing Party shall grant the right of appeal in matters relating to the eligibility for 
preferential tariff treatment to importers of goods traded or to be traded between the Parties, 
in accordance with its domestic laws, regulations and administrative practices. 
      20 
  
ANNEX A 
 
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX B 
 
 
Note 1 – General introduction 
 
The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently 
worked or processed within the meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed 
Products) of the Protocol. There are four different types of rules, which vary according to the 
product: 
 
(a)  through  working  or  processing  a  maximum  content  of  non-originating 
materials is not exceeded; 
 
(b)  through working or processing the 4-digit Harmonized System heading or 6-
digit Harmonized System sub-heading of the manufactured products becomes 
different from the 4-digit Harmonized System heading or 6-digit sub-heading 
respectively of the materials used; 
 
(c)  a specific working and processing operation is carried out; and 
 
(d)  working or processing is carried out on certain wholly obtained materials. 
 
 
Note 2 – The structure of the list 
 
2.1.  The first two columns in the list describe the product obtained. The first column gives 
the heading number or chapter number used in  the Harmonized System  and the 
second column gives the description of goods used in that system for that heading or 
chapter. For each entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in column 3. 
Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an “ex”, this 
signifies that the rules in column 3 apply only to the part of that heading as described 
in column 2. 
 
2.2.  Where  several  heading  numbers  are  grouped  together  in  column 1  or  a  chapter 
number is given and the description of products in column 2 is therefore given in 
general terms, the adjacent rules in column 3 apply to all products which, under the 
Harmonized  System,  are  classified  in  headings  of  the  chapter  or  in  any  of  the 
headings grouped together in column 1. 
 
2.3.  Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a 
heading, each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered by 
the adjacent rules in column 3. 
 
2.4.  Where two alternative rules are set out in column 3, separated by “or”, it is at the 
choice of the exporter which one to use. 
      21 
  
 
Note 3 – Examples of how to apply the rules 
3.1.  Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) of the Protocol, concerning 
products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of 
other products, shall apply, regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside 
the factory where these products are used or in another factory in a Party. 
 
3.2.  Pursuant  to  Article  6  (Insufficient  Working  or  Processing)  of  the  Protocol,  the 
working or processing carried out must go beyond the list of operations mentioned in 
that Article. If it does not, the goods shall not qualify for the granting of the benefit of 
preferential tariff treatment, even if the conditions set out in the list below are met.  
 
  Subject to the provision referred to in the first sub-paragraph, the rules in the list 
represent the minimum amount of working or processing required, and the carrying-
out of more working or processing also confers originating status; conversely, the 
carrying-out of less working or processing cannot confer originating status.  
 
  Thus,  if  a  rule  provides  that  non-originating  material,  at  a  certain  level  of 
manufacture, may be used, the use of such material at an earlier stage of manufacture 
is allowed, and the use of such material at a later stage is not. 
 
  If a rule provides that non-originating material, at a certain level of manufacture, may 
not be used, the use of materials at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed, and the 
use of materials at a later stage is not. 
 
  Example: when the list-rule for Chapter 19 requires that “non-originating materials of 
headings 1101 to 1108 cannot exceed 20% weight”, the use (i.e. importation) of 
cereals of Chapter 10 (materials at an earlier stage of manufacture) is not limited. 
 
3.3.  Without prejudice to Note 3.2, where a rule uses the expression “Manufacture from 
materials of any heading”, then materials of any heading(s) (even materials of the 
same description and heading as the product) may be used, subject, however, to any 
specific limitations which may also be contained in the rule. 
 
  However, the expression “Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other 
materials of heading ...” or “Manufacture from materials of any heading, including 
other materials of the same heading as the product” means that materials of any 
heading(s) may be used, except those of the same description as the product as given 
in column 2 of the list. 
 
3.4.  When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more than 
one material, this means that one or more materials may be used. It does not require 
that all be used. 
 
3.5.  Where  a  rule  in  the  list  specifies  that  a  product  must  be  manufactured  from  a 
particular material, the rule does not prevent the use of other materials which, because 
of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy this condition. 
      22 
  
 
3.6.  Where, in a rule in the list, two percentages are given for the maximum value of non-
originating materials that can be used, then these percentages may not be added 
together. In other words, the maximum value of all the non-originating materials used 
may never exceed the higher of the percentages given. Furthermore, the individual 
percentages must not be exceeded, in relation to the particular materials to which they 
apply. 
 
Note 4 – General provisions concerning certain agricultural goods 
 
4.1.  Agricultural goods falling within Chapters 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 and heading 2401 which 
are grown or harvested in the territory of a beneficiary country shall be treated as 
originating in the territory of that country, even if grown from seeds, bulbs, rootstock, 
cuttings, grafts, shoots, buds, or other live parts of plants imported from another 
country. 
 
4.2.  In cases where the content of non-originating sugar in a given product is subject to 
limitations, the weight of sugars of headings 1701 (sucrose) and 1702 (e.g., fructose, 
glucose, lactose, maltose, isoglucose or invert sugar) used in the manufacture of the 
final  product  and  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  non-originating  products 
incorporated in the final product is taken into account for the calculation of such 
limitations. 
 
 
Note 5 - Terminology used in respect of certain textile products 
 
5.1.  The term “natural fibres” is used in the list to refer to fibres other than artificial or 
synthetic fibres. It is restricted to the stages before spinning takes place, including 
waste,  and,  unless  otherwise  specified,  includes  fibres  which  have  been  carded, 
combed or otherwise processed, but not spun. 
 
5.2.  The term “natural fibres” includes horsehair of heading 0511, silk of headings 5002 
and 5003, as well as wool-fibres and fine or coarse animal hair of headings 5101 
to 5105,  cotton  fibres  of  headings 5201  to 5203,  and  other  vegetable  fibres  of 
headings 5301 to 5305. 
 
5.3.  The terms “textile pulp”, “chemical materials” and “paper-making materials” are used 
in the list to describe the materials, not classified in Chapters 50 to 63, which can be 
used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or yarns. 
 
5.4.  The term “man-made staple fibres” is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial 
filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of headings 5501 to 5507. 
 
Note 6 - Tolerances applicable to products made of a mixture of textile materials 
 
6.1.  Where, for a given product in the list, reference is made to this Note, the conditions 
set out in column 3 shall not be applied to any basic textile materials used in the 
      23 
  
manufacture of this product and which, taken together, represent 10 % or less of the 
total weight of all the basic textile materials used. (See also Notes 6.3 and 6.4). 
 
6.2.  However, the tolerance mentioned in Note 6.1 may be applied only to mixed products 
which have been made from two or more basic textile materials. 
 
  The following are the basic textile materials: 
 
-  silk; 
-  wool; 
-  coarse animal hair; 
-  fine animal hair; 
-  horsehair; 
-  cotton; 
-  paper-making materials and paper; 
-  flax; 
-  true hemp; 
-  jute and other textile bast fibres; 
-  sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave; 
-  coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres; 
-  synthetic man-made filaments; 
-  artificial man-made filaments; 
-  current-conducting filaments; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene; 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(phenylene sulphide); 
-  synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(vinyl chloride); 
-  other synthetic man-made staple fibres; 
-  artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose; 
-  other artificial man-made staple fibres; 
-  yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether, 
whether or not gimped; 
-  yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester, 
whether or not gimped; 
-  products of heading 5605 (metallised yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a 
core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with 
aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a 
transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film; 
-  other products of heading 5605; 
-  glass fibres; 
-  metal fibres. 
 
Example: 
      24 
  
 
A yarn, of heading 5205, made from cotton fibres of heading 5203 and synthetic staple fibres 
of heading 5506, is a mixed yarn. Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres which do 
not satisfy the origin rules may be used, provided that their total weight does not exceed 10% 
of the weight of the yarn. 
 
Example: 
 
A woollen fabric, of heading 5112, made from woollen yarn of heading 5107 and synthetic 
yarn of staple fibres of heading 5509, is a mixed fabric. Therefore, synthetic yarn which does 
not satisfy the origin rules, or woollen yarn which does not satisfy the origin rules, or a 
combination of the two, may be used, provided that their total weight does not exceed 10% of 
the weight of the fabric. 
 
Example: 
 
Tufted textile fabric, of heading 5802, made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and cotton 
fabric of heading 5210, is only a mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric 
made  from  yarns  classified  in  two  separate  headings,  or  if  the  cotton  yarns  used  are 
themselves mixtures. 
 
Example: 
 
If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and 
synthetic fabric of heading 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic 
textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is, accordingly, a mixed product. 
 
6.3.  In the case of products incorporating “yarn made of polyurethane segmented with 
flexible segments of polyether, whether or not gimped”, this tolerance is 20 % in 
respect of this yarn. 
 
6.4.  In the case of products incorporating “strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or 
of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not 
exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between 
two layers of plastic film”, this tolerance is 30 % in respect of this strip. 
 
Note 7 - Other tolerances applicable to certain textile products 
 
7.1.  Where, in the list, reference is made to this Note, textile materials (with the exception 
of linings and interlinings), which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 
for the made-up product concerned, may be used, provided that they are classified in a 
heading other than that of the product and that their value does not exceed 8 % of the 
ex-works price of the product. 
 
7.2.  Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials, which are not classified within Chapters 50 
to 63, may be used freely in the manufacture of textile products, whether or not they 
contain textiles. 
      25 
  
 
Example: 
 
If a rule in the list provides that, for a particular textile item (such as trousers), yarn must be 
used, this does not prevent the use of metal items, such as buttons, because buttons are not 
classified within Chapters 50 to 63. For the same reason, it does not prevent the use of slide-
fasteners, even though slide-fasteners normally contain textiles. 
 
7.3.  Where a percentage rule applies, the value of non-originating materials which are not 
classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken into account when calculating the 
value of the non-originating materials incorporated. 
 
Note 8 - Definition of specific processes and simple operations carried out in respect of 
certain products of Chapter 27 
 
8.1.  For the purposes of headings ex 2707 and 2713, the “specific processes” are the 
following: 
 
(a)  vacuum-distillation; 
 
(b)  redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process; 
 
(c)  cracking; 
 
(d)  reforming; 
 
(e)  extraction by means of selective solvents; 
 
(f)  the  process  comprising  all  of  the  following  operations:  processing  with 
concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation with 
alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally active earth, 
activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; 
 
(g)  polymerisation; 
 
(h)  alkylation; 
 
(i)  isomerisation. 
 
8.2.  For the purposes of headings 2710, 2711 and 2712, the “specific processes” are the 
following: 
 
(a)  vacuum-distillation; 
 
(b)  redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process; 
 
(c)  cracking; 
      26 
  
 
(d)  reforming; 
 
(e)  extraction by means of selective solvents; 
 
(f)  the  process  comprising  all  of  the  following  operations:  processing  with 
concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation with 
alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally active earth, 
activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; 
 
(g)  polymerisation; 
 
(h)  alkylation; 
 
(i)  isomerisation; 
 
(j)  in  respect  of  heavy  oils  of  heading ex 2710  only,  desulphurisation  with 
hydrogen, resulting in a reduction of at least 85 % of the sulphur content of the 
products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); 
 
(k)  in respect of products of heading 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other 
than filtering; 
 
(l)  in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen, at a 
pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 °C, with the 
use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurisation, when the hydrogen 
constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction. The further treatment, 
with hydrogen, of lubricating oils of heading ex 2710 (e.g. hydrofinishing or 
decolourisation), in order, more especially, to improve colour or stability shall 
not, however, be deemed to be a specific process; 
 
(m)  in respect of fuel oils of heading ex 2710 only, atmospheric distillation, on 
condition that less than 30 % of these products distils, by volume, including 
losses, at 300 °C, by the ASTM D 86 method; 
 
(n)  in respect of heavy oils other than gas oils and fuel oils of heading ex 2710 
only, treatment by means of a high-frequency electrical brush discharge; 
 
(o)  in respect of crude products (other than petroleum jelly, ozokerite, lignite wax 
or peat wax, paraffin wax containing by weight less than 0.75 % of oil) of 
heading ex 2712 only, de-oiling by fractional crystallisation. 
 
8.3.  For the purposes of headings ex 2707 and 2713, simple operations, such as cleaning, 
decanting,  desalting,  water  separation,  filtering,  colouring,  marking,  obtaining  a 
sulphur content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur contents, or any 
combination of these operations or like operations, do not confer origin. 
 
      27 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
ANNEX B 
LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED OUT ON 
NON-ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER THAT THE PRODUCT 
MANUFACTURED CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS 
 
                                                           
1 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
28 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
2 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
3 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
29 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
30 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
4 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
5 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
6 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
7 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
31 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
8 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
9 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
32 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
10 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
33 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
11 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
12 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
34 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
13 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
14 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
15 See Introductory Note 4.2. 
35 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
36 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
16 For the special conditions relating to “specific processes”, see Introductory Notes 8.1 and 8.3. 
17 For the special conditions relating to “specific processes”, see Introductory Note 8.2. 
18 For the special conditions relating to “specific processes”, see Introductory Note 8.2. 
37 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
19 For the special conditions relating to “specific processes”, see Introductory Note 8.2. 
20 For the special conditions relating to “specific processes”, see Introductory Notes 8.1 and 8.3. 
38 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
39 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
40 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
41 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
42 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
43 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
44 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
45 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
46 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
21 In the case of the products composed of materials classified within both headings 3901 to 3906, on the one hand, and within 
headings 3907 to 3911, on the other hand, this restriction only applies to that group of materials which predominates by weight in the 
product. 
47 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
48 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
49 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
50 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
51 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
52 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
22 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
53 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
23 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
24 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
54 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
25 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
55 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
26 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
56 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
27 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
57 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
28 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
29 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
30 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
58 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
   
                                                           
31 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
32 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5. 
33 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5. 
59 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
34 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5. 
35 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
60 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
36 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
61 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
62 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
37 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
38 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
63 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
39 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
64 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
40 The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery. 
65 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
41 The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery. 
42 The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery. 
43 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
66 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
67 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
68 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
69 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
70 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
44 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
45 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
46 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
47 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
71 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
72 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
73 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
48 SEMII – Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Institute Incorporated. 
 
74 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
75 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
76 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
77 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
78 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
79 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
80 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
81 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
82 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
83 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
84 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
85 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
86 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
87 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
88 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
89 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
90 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
91 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
92 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
93 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
                                                           
49 For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
94 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
 
95 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
ANNEX B(a) 
 
ADDENDUM TO THE LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE 
CARRIED OUT ON NON-ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER THAT THE 
PRODUCT MANUFACTURED CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS 
 
 
Common provisions  
 
1.   For the products described below, the following rules may also apply instead of the 
rules set out in Annex B for products originating in Singapore, however limited by an 
annual quota.  
 
2.   A origin declaration made out pursuant to this Annex shall contain the following 
statement in English: “Derogation – Annex B(a) of Protocol Concerning the definition 
of the concept of ‘originating products’ and methods of administrative cooperation of 
the Turkey-Singapore FTA”.  
 
3.   Products can be imported into Turkey under these derogations upon the provision of a 
declaration signed by the exporter certifying that the products concerned satisfy the 
conditions of the derogation.  
 
4.   Any quantities referred to in this Annex shall be managed by Turkey, which shall take 
all administrative actions it deems advisable for their efficient management in respect 
of the applicable legislation of Turkey.  
 
5.   The quotas indicated in the table below will be managed by Turkey on a first-come, 
first-served basis. The quantities exported from Singapore to  Turkey under these 
derogations will be calculated on the basis of the imports into Turkey. 
 
6.   If the annual  quota thresholds are reached, the Parties shall discuss in  the Joint 
Committee to increase the quota levels, upon Singapore’s request. 
 
96 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
97 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
 
98 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
ANNEX C 
 
MATERIALS EXCLUDED FROM CUMULATION UNDER PARAGRAPH 10 
OF ARTICLE 3 (CUMULATION OF ORIGIN) 
 
 
99 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
ANNEX D 
 
PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 12 OF ARTICLE 3 
(CUMULATION OF ORIGIN) FOR WHICH MATERIALS 
ORIGINATING IN AN ASEAN COUNTRY SHALL BE CONSIDERED 
AS MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN A PARTY 
 
 
100 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
101 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
102 
 Protocol 1 
   
 
ANNEX E 
 
TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION 
 
The origin declaration, the text of which is given below, must be made out in accordance with 
the footnotes. However, the footnotes do not have to be reproduced. 
 
Origin Declaration  
 
The exporter of the products covered by this document declares that, except where otherwise 
clearly indicated, these products are of ... preferential origin under Turkey–Singapore Free 
Trade Agreement.  
 
 
……………………………………………………………............................................[1]   
(Place and date)
 
 
...…………………………………………………………………….............................. 
(Signature of the exporter, in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to 
be indicated in clear script)]
 
 
103 
 