 
CHAPTER 3 
 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
 
SECTION A 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
 
Article 3.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  aquaculture  means  the  farming  of  aquatic  organisms 
including  fish,  molluscs,  crustaceans,  other  aquatic 
invertebrates, and aquatic plants from seed stock such as 
eggs, fry, fingerlings, and larvae, by intervention in the 
rearing or growth processes to enhance production such 
as regular stocking, feeding, or protection from predators; 
 
(b)  CIF value means the value of the imported good, inclusive 
of the cost of insurance and freight up to the port or place 
of entry into the country of importation; 
 
(c)  competent authority means the government authority or 
authorities designated by a Party and notified to the other 
Parties; 
 
(d)  customs authority means a customs authority as defined 
in subparagraph (a) of Article 4.1 (Definitions); 
 
(e)  FOB value means the value of the good free on board, 
inclusive of the cost of transport (regardless of the mode of 
transport) to the port or site of final shipment abroad; 
 
(f)  fungible goods or materials means goods or materials 
that are interchangeable for commercial purposes, whose 
properties are essentially identical; 
 
(g)  Generally  Accepted  Accounting  Principles  means 
those  principles  recognised  by  consensus  or  with 
substantial authoritative support in a Party, with respect to 
the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and 
liabilities; the disclosure of information; and the preparation 
of financial statements.  These principles may encompass 
3-1  
broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed 
standards, practices, and procedures; 
 
(h)  good  means  any  merchandise,  product,  article,  or 
material; 
 
(i)  issuing body means an entity designated or authorised by 
a Party to issue a Certificate of Origin and notified to the 
other Parties in accordance with this Chapter; 
 
(j)  material means a good that is used in the production of 
another good; 
 
(k)  non-originating  good  or  non-originating  material 
means  a  good  or  material  which  does  not  qualify  as 
originating in accordance with this Chapter; 
 
(l)  originating good or originating material means a good 
or material which qualifies as originating in accordance 
with this Chapter; 
 
(m)  producer means a person who engages in the production 
of goods; and 
 
(n)  production means methods of obtaining goods including 
growing,  mining,  harvesting,  farming,  raising,  breeding, 
extracting,  gathering,  collecting,  capturing,  fishing, 
aquaculture, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, producing, 
processing, or assembling. 
 
 
Article 3.2: Originating Goods 
 
For  the  purposes  of  this Agreement, a  good  shall be treated as an 
originating good if it is: 
 
(a)  wholly obtained or produced in a Party as provided in 
Article 3.3 (Goods Wholly Obtained or Produced); 
 
(b)  produced in a Party exclusively from originating materials 
from one or more of the Parties; or 
 
(c)  produced  in  a  Party  using  non-originating  materials, 
provided the good satisfies the applicable requirements set 
out in Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules), 
  
3-2  
and meets all other applicable requirements of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 3.3: Goods Wholly Obtained or Produced  
 
For the purposes of Article 3.2 (Originating Goods), the following goods 
shall be considered as wholly obtained or produced in a Party: 
 
(a)  plants and plant goods, including fruit, flowers, vegetables, 
trees,  seaweed,  fungi,  and  live  plants,  grown  and 
harvested, picked, or gathered there; 
 
(b)  live animals born and raised there; 
 
(c)  goods obtained from live animals raised there; 
 
(d)  goods  obtained  by  hunting,  trapping,  fishing,  farming, 
aquaculture, gathering, or capturing conducted there; 
 
(e)  minerals  and  other  naturally  occurring  substances,  not 
included in subparagraphs (a) through (d), extracted or 
taken from its soil, waters, seabed, or subsoil beneath the 
seabed; 
 
(f)  goods of sea-fishing and other marine life taken by vessels 
of that Party1, and other goods taken by that Party or a 
person of that Party, from the waters, seabed, or subsoil 
beneath the seabed outside the territorial sea of the Parties 
and  non-Parties,  in  accordance  with  international  law, 
provided that, in case of goods of sea-fishing and other 
marine life taken from the exclusive economic zone of any 
Party or non-Party, that Party or person of that Party has 
 
1 For the purposes of this Article, “factory ships of that Party” or “vessels of that Party” 
respectively, means factory ships or vessels: 
 
(a)  which are registered in that Party; and 
 
(b)  which are entitled to fly the flag of that Party. 
 
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any factory ship or vessel operating within 
the exclusive economic zone of Australia that meets the definition of “Australian boat” 
under the Fisheries Management Act 1991 (Commonwealth), as amended from time 
to time, or any successor legislation, shall be considered to be a factory ship or vessel 
of Australia respectively.  For greater certainty, when such a factory ship or vessel is 
operating outside of the exclusive economic zone of Australia, the requirements of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this footnote shall apply. 
 
3-3  
the rights to exploit2 such exclusive economic zone, and in 
case of other goods, that Party or person of that Party has 
rights  to  exploit  such  seabed  and  subsoil  beneath  the 
seabed, in accordance with international law; 
 
(g)  goods of sea-fishing and other marine life taken by vessels 
of  that  Party  from  the  high  seas  in  accordance  with 
international law; 
 
(h)  goods processed or made on board any factory ships of 
that  Party,  exclusively  from  the  goods  referred  to  in 
subparagraph (f) or (g); 
 
(i)  goods which are: 
 
(i)  waste  and  scrap  derived  from  production  or 
consumption there, provided that such goods are fit 
only for disposal, for the recovery of raw materials, 
or for recycling purposes; or 
 
(ii)  used  goods  collected  there,  provided  that  such 
goods are fit only for disposal, for the recovery of 
raw materials, or for recycling purposes; and 
 
(j)  goods  obtained  or  produced  there  solely  from  goods 
referred to in subparagraphs (a) through (i), or from their 
derivatives. 
 
 
Article 3.4: Cumulation 
 
1.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  goods  and 
materials which comply with the origin requirements provided in 
Article 3.2 (Originating Goods), and which are used in another 
Party as materials in the production of another good or material, 
shall be considered as originating in the Party where working or 
processing of the finished good or material has taken place. 
 
2.  The Parties shall commence a review of this Article on the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement for all signatory States.  This 
review will consider the extension of the application of cumulation 
 
2 For the purposes of determining the origin of goods of sea-fishing and other marine 
life, “rights to exploit” in this subparagraph include those rights of access to the fisheries 
resources of a coastal State, as accruing from any agreements or arrangements 
between a Party and the coastal State. 
3-4  
in paragraph 1 to all production undertaken and value added to a 
good within the Parties.  The Parties shall conclude the review 
within five years of the date of its commencement, unless the 
Parties agree otherwise. 
 
 
Article 3.5: Calculation of Regional Value Content 
 
1.  The regional value content of a good, specified in Annex 3A 
(Product-Specific Rules), shall be calculated by using either of the 
following formulas: 
 
(a)  Indirect/Build-Down Formula 
 
     
 
  FOB – VNM   
 
RVC =  _____________   x 100 
 
     
 
FOB 
 
 
or 
 
 
(b)  Direct/Build-Up Formula  
 
       
  Direct  Direct   
    Labour  Overhead    Other    
RVC =  VOM  +  Cost   +  Cost   +  Profit  +  Cost   
  ____________________________________  x 100 
   
FOB 
 
where:  
 
RVC is the regional value content of a good, expressed as a 
percentage; 
 
FOB is the FOB value as defined in subparagraph (e) of Article 
3.1 (Definitions); 
 
VOM  is  the  value  of  originating  materials,  parts,  or  produce 
acquired or self-produced, and used in the production of the good; 
 
VNM  is  the  value  of  non-originating  materials  used  in  the 
production of the good; 
  
3-5  
Direct Labour Cost includes wages, remuneration, and other 
employee benefits; and 
 
Direct Overhead Cost is the total overhead expense. 
 
2.  The value of goods under this Chapter shall be calculated, mutatis 
mutandis, in accordance with Article VII of GATT 1994 and the 
Customs Valuation Agreement.  All costs shall be recorded and 
maintained  in  accordance  with  the  Generally  Accepted 
Accounting Principles applicable in the Party where the goods are 
produced. 
 
3.  The value of non-originating materials shall be: 
 
(a)  for imported materials, the CIF value of the materials at the 
time of importation; and 
 
(b)  for  materials  obtained  within  a  Party,  the  earliest 
ascertainable price paid or payable. 
 
4.  A material of undetermined origin shall be treated as a non-
originating material. 
 
5.  The following expenses may be deducted from the value of non-
originating materials or materials of undetermined origin: 
 
(a)  the  costs  of  freight,  insurance,  packing,  and  other 
transport-related costs incurred in transporting the goods 
to the producer; 
 
(b)  duties,  taxes,  and  customs  brokerage  fees,  other  than 
duties that are waived, refunded, or otherwise recovered; 
and 
 
(c)  costs  of  waste  and  spillage,  less  the  value  of  any 
renewable scrap or by-products. 
 
Where the expenses listed in subparagraphs (a) through (c) are 
unknown  or  evidence  is  not  available,  then  no  deduction  is 
allowed for those expenses. 
 
 
   
3-6  
Article 3.6: Minimal Operations and Processes 
 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Chapter, the following operations 
when undertaken on non-originating materials to produce a good shall 
be considered as insufficient working or processing to confer on that 
good the status of an originating good: 
 
(a)  preserving operations to ensure that the good remains in 
good condition for the purposes of transport or storage; 
 
(b)  packaging or presenting goods for transportation or sale; 
 
(c)  simple3 processes, consisting of sifting, screening, sorting, 
classifying, sharpening, cutting, slitting, grinding, bending, 
coiling, or uncoiling; 
 
(d)  affixing or printing of marks, labels, logos, or other like 
distinguishing signs on goods or their packaging; 
 
(e)  mere dilution with water or another substance that does not 
materially alter the characteristics of the good; 
 
(f)  disassembly of products into parts; 
 
(g)  slaughtering4 of animals; 
 
(h)  simple painting and polishing operations; 
 
(i)  simple peeling, stoning, or shelling; 
 
(j)  simple mixing of goods, whether or not of different kinds; 
or 
 
(k)  any combination of two or more operations referred to in 
subparagraphs (a) through (j). 
 
 
   
 
3 For the purposes of this Article, “simple” describes an activity which does not need 
special skills, or machines, apparatus, or equipment especially produced or installed 
for carrying out the activity. 
 
4 For the purposes of this Article, “slaughtering” means the mere killing of animals. 
3-7  
Article 3.7: De Minimis  
 
1.  A  good  that  does  not  satisfy  a  change  in  tariff  classification 
pursuant to Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules) is nonetheless an 
originating good if the good meets all of the other applicable 
requirements in this Chapter and: 
 
(a)  for a good classified in Chapters 01 through 97 of the HS 
Code, the value of non-originating materials that have been 
used in the production of the good and did not undergo the 
applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 
10 per cent of the FOB value of that good.  The value of 
those  non-originating  materials  shall  be  determined 
pursuant  to  paragraph  3  of  Article  3.5  (Calculation  of 
Regional Value Content); or 
 
(b)  for a good classified in Chapters 50 through 63 of the HS 
Code, the weight of all non-originating materials used in its 
production that did not undergo the required change in tariff 
classification does not exceed 10 per cent of the total 
weight of the good. 
 
2.  The value of non-originating materials referred to in paragraph 1 
shall,  however,  be  included  in  the  value  of  non-originating 
materials for any applicable regional value content requirement. 
 
 
Article  3.8:  Treatment  of  Packing  and  Packaging  Materials  and 
Containers 
 
1.  Packing  materials  and  containers  for  the  transportation  and 
shipment of a good shall not be taken into account in determining 
the originating status of any good. 
 
2.  Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged 
for retail sale, which are classified together with the good, shall 
not be taken into account in determining the originating status of 
the good, provided that: 
 
(a)  the good is wholly obtained or produced in a Party in 
accordance  with  subparagraph  (a)  of  Article  3.2 
(Originating Goods); 
 
(b)  the good is produced in a Party exclusively from originating 
materials from one or more of the Parties, in accordance 
with subparagraph (b) of Article 3.2 (Originating Goods); or 
3-8  
 
(c)  the good is subject to a change in tariff classification or a 
specific  manufacturing  or  processing  operation 
requirement  provided  in  Annex  3A  (Product-Specific 
Rules). 
 
3.  If a good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the 
value of the packaging materials and containers in which the good 
is  packaged  for  retail  sale  shall  be  taken  into  account  as 
originating materials or non-originating materials of the good, as 
the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the 
good. 
 
 
Article 3.9: Accessories, Spare Parts, and Tools 
 
1.  For the purposes of determining the originating status of a good, 
accessories,  spare  parts,  tools,  and  instructional  or  other 
information materials presented with the good shall be considered 
as  part  of  the  good  and  shall  be  disregarded  in  determining 
whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of 
the  good  have  undergone  the  applicable  change  in  tariff 
classification or a specific manufacturing or processing operation 
set out in Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules), provided that: 
 
(a)  the accessories, spare parts, tools, and instructional or 
other information materials presented with the good are not 
invoiced separately from the good; and 
 
(b)  the quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, 
tools,  and  instructional  or  other  information  materials 
presented with the good are customary for the good. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, if a good is subject to a regional 
value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare 
parts,  tools,  and  instructional  or  other  information  materials 
presented with the good shall be taken into account as originating 
materials or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in 
calculating the regional value content of the good, provided that: 
 
(a)  the accessories, spare parts, tools, and instructional or 
other information materials presented with the good are not 
invoiced separately from the good; and 
 
3-9  
(b)  the quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, 
tools,  and  instructional  or  other  information  materials 
presented with the good are customary for the good. 
 
 
Article 3.10: Indirect Materials 
 
1.  An indirect material shall be treated as an originating material 
without regard to where it is produced and its value shall be the 
cost  registered  in  accordance  with  the  Generally  Accepted 
Accounting Principles in the records of the producer of the good. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Article, “indirect material” means a good 
used in the production, testing, or inspection of another good but 
not physically incorporated into that other good, or a good used in 
the  maintenance  of  buildings  or  the  operation  of  equipment 
associated with the production of a good, including: 
 
(a)  fuel and energy; 
 
(b)  tools, dies, and moulds; 
 
(c)  spare  parts  and  goods  used  in  the  maintenance  of 
equipment and buildings; 
 
(d)  lubricants,  greases,  compounding  materials,  and  other 
materials used in production or used to operate equipment 
and buildings; 
 
(e)  gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, and safety equipment 
and supplies; 
 
(f)  equipment,  devices,  and  supplies  used  for  testing  or 
inspecting goods; 
 
(g)  catalysts and solvents; and 
 
(h)  any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but 
whose use in the production of the good can reasonably be 
demonstrated to be a part of that production. 
 
 
Article 3.11: Fungible Goods or Materials  
 
The determination of whether fungible goods or materials are originating 
shall be made either by physical segregation of each of the fungible 
3-10  
goods or materials or, where commingled, by the use of an inventory 
management method which is recognised in the Generally Accepted 
Accounting  Principles  of  the  exporting  Party,  and  should  be  used 
throughout the fiscal year. 
 
 
Article 3.12: Materials Used in Production 
 
If a non-originating material undergoes further production such that it 
satisfies the requirements of this Chapter, the material shall be treated 
as  originating  when  determining  the  originating  status  of  the 
subsequently produced good, regardless of whether that material was 
produced by the producer of the good. 
 
 
Article 3.13: Unit of Qualification 
 
1.  The unit of qualification for the application of this Chapter shall be 
the particular good which is considered as the basic unit when 
determining classification under the Harmonized System. 
 
2.  When a consignment consists of a number of identical goods 
classified under a single tariff line, each good shall be individually 
taken  into  account  in  determining  whether  it  qualifies  as  an 
originating good. 
 
 
Article 3.14: Treatment for Certain Goods 
 
The Parties and signatory States shall enter into discussions on the 
treatment for certain goods under this Chapter upon the request of a 
Party and conclude such discussions within three years from the start of 
the discussions.  The treatment for certain goods under this Chapter 
shall be subject to agreement of all the Parties and signatory States by 
consensus. 
 
 
Article 3.15: Direct Consignment 
 
1.  An  originating  good  shall  retain  its  originating  status  as 
determined under Article 3.2 (Originating Goods) if the following 
conditions have been met: 
  
(a)  the good has been transported directly from an exporting 
Party to an importing Party; or 
 
3-11  
(b)  the  good  has  been  transported  through  one  or  more 
Parties other than the exporting Party and the importing 
Party (hereinafter referred to as “intermediate Parties” in 
this Article), or non-Parties, provided that the good: 
 
(i)  has not undergone any further processing in the 
intermediate Parties or the non-Parties, except for 
logistics  activities  such  as  unloading,  reloading, 
storing,  or  any  other  operations  necessary  to 
preserve it in good condition or to transport it to the 
importing Party; and 
 
(ii)  remains under the control of the customs authorities 
in the intermediate Parties or the non-Parties. 
 
2.  Compliance  with  subparagraph  1(b)  shall  be  evidenced  by 
presenting the customs authorities of the importing Party either 
with customs documents of the intermediate Parties or the non-
Parties, or with any other appropriate documentation on request 
of the customs authorities of the importing Party. 
 
3.  Appropriate  documentation  referred  to  in  paragraph  2  may 
include commercial shipping or freight documents such as airway 
bills, bills of lading, multimodal or combined transport documents, 
a copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the good, 
financial records, a non-manipulation certificate, or other relevant 
supporting documents, as may be requested by the customs 
authorities of the importing Party. 
 
 
SECTION B 
OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES  
 
 
Article 3.16: Proof of Origin 
 
1.  Any of the following shall be considered as a Proof of Origin: 
 
(a)  a  Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  an  issuing  body  in 
accordance with Article 3.17 (Certificate of Origin); 
 
(b)  a  Declaration  of  Origin  by  an  approved  exporter  in 
accordance  with  subparagraph  1(a)  of  Article  3.18 
(Declaration of Origin); or 
 
3-12  
(c)  a  Declaration  of  Origin  by  an  exporter  or  producer  in 
accordance  with  subparagraph  1(b)  of  Article  3.18 
(Declaration of Origin), and subject to paragraphs 2 and 3, 
  
based on information available that the good is originating. 
 
2.  Australia, Brunei Darussalam, China, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, 
Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, 
and Viet Nam shall implement subparagraph 1(c) no later than 10 
years  after  their  respective  dates  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement.  Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Myanmar shall implement 
subparagraph 1(c) no later than 20 years after their respective 
dates of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraph 2, a Party may elect to seek a longer 
extension period, up to a maximum of 10 years, in which to 
implement  subparagraph  1(c),  by  notifying  the  Committee  on 
Goods of that decision. 
 
4.  The Parties shall commence a review of this Article on the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement for all signatory States.  This 
review will consider the introduction of Declaration of Origin by an 
importer as a Proof of Origin.  The Parties shall conclude the 
review within five years of the date of its commencement, unless 
the Parties agree otherwise.5 
 
5.  A Proof of Origin shall: 
 
(a)  be in writing, or any other medium, including electronic 
format as notified by an importing Party; 
 
(b)  specify  that  the  good  is  originating  and  meets  the 
requirements of this Chapter; and 
 
(c)  contain information which meets the minimum information 
requirements as set out in Annex 3B (Minimum Information 
Requirements). 
 
 
5 Notwithstanding this paragraph, Japan may, from the date of the entry into force of 
this Agreement for it, consider a Declaration of Origin by an importer as a Proof of 
Origin in the same manner as Proof of Origin under paragraph 1.  In that case, Japan 
shall not conduct a verification process by means referred to in subparagraphs 1(b) 
through (d) of Article 3.24 (Verification) regarding the Declaration of Origin by the 
importer.  The Declaration of Origin shall only be completed by the importer where that 
importer has sufficient information to prove that the good qualifies as an originating 
good. 
3-13  
6.  Each Party shall provide that a Proof of Origin remains valid for 
one year from the date on which it is issued or completed. 
 
 
Article 3.17: Certificate of Origin 
 
1.  A Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the issuing body of an 
exporting Party upon an application by an exporter, a producer, 
or their authorised representative. 
 
2.  The exporter, producer, or their authorised representative shall 
apply in writing or by electronic means for a Certificate of Origin, 
to the issuing body of the exporting Party in accordance with the 
exporting Party’s laws, regulations, and procedures. 
 
3.  A Certificate of Origin shall: 
 
(a)  be in a format to be determined by the Parties; 
 
(b)  bear a unique Certificate of Origin number; 
 
(c)  be in the English language; and 
 
(d)  bear an authorised signature and official seal of the issuing 
body of the exporting Party.  The signature and seal shall 
be applied manually or electronically. 
 
4.  A Certificate of Origin may: 
 
(a)  indicate two or more invoices issued for single shipment; 
or 
 
(b)  contain multiple goods, provided that each good qualifies 
as an originating good separately in its own right. 
 
5.  In circumstances where a Certificate of Origin contains incorrect 
information, the issuing body of the exporting Party may: 
 
(a)  issue a new Certificate of Origin and invalidate the original 
Certificate of Origin; or 
 
(b)  make modifications to the original Certificate of Origin by 
striking out errors and making any additions or corrections.  
Any changes shall be certified by the authorised signature 
and official seal of the issuing body of the exporting Party. 
 
3-14  
6.  Each  Party  shall  provide  the  names,  addresses,  specimen 
signatures, and impressions of official seals of its issuing body to 
the  other  Parties.    Such  information  shall  be  submitted 
electronically through the RCEP Secretariat established pursuant 
to subparagraph 1(i) of Article 18.3 (Functions of the RCEP Joint 
Committee) (hereinafter referred to as “RCEP Secretariat” in this 
Chapter), for dissemination to the other Parties.  Any subsequent 
changes shall be promptly submitted to the RCEP Secretariat in 
the same manner for dissemination to the other Parties.  The 
Parties shall endeavour to establish a secured website to display 
such information from the last three years, and such website shall 
be accessible to the Parties. 
 
7.  Notwithstanding paragraph 6, a Party shall not be required to 
provide the specimen signatures of its issuing body to the RCEP 
Secretariat  for  dissemination  to  the  other  Parties  if  it  has 
established  its  own  secured  website,  containing  relevant 
information of the Certificates of Origin it issues, including their 
Certificate of Origin numbers, HS Codes, descriptions of goods, 
quantities, dates of issuance, and names of the exporters, that is 
accessible  to  the  Parties.    The  Parties  shall  review  the 
requirement to provide specimen signatures of the issuing bodies 
three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for 
all signatory States. 
 
8.  Where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued at the time of 
shipment  due  to  involuntary  errors,  omissions,  or  other  valid 
causes, or in the circumstances referred to in subparagraph 5(a), 
a Certificate of Origin may be issued retrospectively but no later 
than one year after the date of shipment.  In that case, the 
Certificate  of  Origin  shall  bear  the  words  “ISSUED 
RETROACTIVELY”. 
 
9.  In the event of theft, loss, or destruction of an original Certificate 
of  Origin,  the  exporter,  producer,  or  their  authorised 
representative may apply in writing to the issuing body of the 
exporting Party for a certified true copy of the original Certificate 
of Origin.  The copy shall: 
 
(a)  be issued no later than one year after the date of issuance 
of the original Certificate of Origin; 
 
(b)  be based on the application for the original Certificate of 
Origin; 
 
3-15  
(c)  contain the same Certificate of Origin number and date as 
the original Certificate of Origin; and 
 
(d)  be endorsed with the words “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY”. 
 
 
Article 3.18: Declaration of Origin 
 
1.  A Declaration of Origin referred to in Article 3.16 (Proof of Origin) 
may be completed by: 
 
(a)  an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 3.21 
(Approved Exporter); or 
 
(b)  an  exporter  or  a  producer  of  the  good,  subject  to 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 3.16 (Proof of Origin). 
 
2.  A Declaration of Origin shall: 
 
(a)  be  completed  in  accordance  with  Annex  3B  (Minimum 
Information Requirements); 
 
(b)  be in the English language; 
 
(c)  bear the name and signature of the certifying person; and 
 
(d)  bear  the  date  on  which  the  Declaration  of  Origin  was 
completed. 
 
 
Article 3.19: Back-to-Back Proof of Origin 
 
1.  Subject to Article 3.16 (Proof of Origin), an issuing body, approved 
exporter, or exporter of an intermediate Party may issue a back-
to-back Proof of Origin provided that: 
 
(a)  a valid original Proof of Origin or its certified true copy is 
presented; 
 
(b)  the period of validity of the back-to-back Proof of Origin 
does not exceed the period of validity of the original Proof 
of Origin; 
 
(c)  the  back-to-back  Proof  of  Origin  contains  relevant 
information from the original Proof of Origin in accordance 
with Annex 3B (Minimum Information Requirements); 
3-16  
 
(d)  the consignment which is to be re-exported using the back-
to-back  Proof  of  Origin  does  not  undergo  any  further 
processing in the intermediate Party, except for repacking 
or logistics activities such as unloading, reloading, storing, 
splitting up of the consignment, or labelling only as required 
by  the  laws,  regulations,  procedures,  administrative 
decisions, and policies of the importing Party, or any other 
operations necessary to preserve a good in good condition 
or to transport a good to the importing Party; 
 
(e)  for partial export shipments, the partial export quantity shall 
be shown instead of the full quantity of the original Proof of 
Origin, and the total quantity re-exported under the partial 
shipment shall not exceed the total quantity of the original 
Proof of Origin; and 
 
(f)  information on the back-to-back Proof of Origin includes 
the date of issuance and reference number of the original 
Proof of Origin. 
 
2.  The verification procedures referred to in Article 3.24 (Verification) 
shall also apply to the back-to-back Proof of Origin. 
 
 
Article 3.20: Third-Party Invoicing 
 
An importing Party shall not deny a claim for preferential tariff treatment 
for the sole reason that an invoice was not issued by the exporter or 
producer of a good provided that the good meets the requirements in 
this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 3.21: Approved Exporter 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide for the authorisation of an exporter who 
exports goods under this Agreement as an approved exporter, in 
accordance with its laws and regulations.  An exporter seeking 
such authorisation must apply in writing or electronically and must 
offer to the satisfaction of the competent authority of the exporting 
Party all guarantees necessary to verify the originating status of 
the good for which a Declaration of Origin is completed.  The 
competent authority of an exporting Party may grant the status of 
approved exporter subject to any conditions which it considers 
appropriate, including the following: 
 
3-17  
(a)  that the exporter is duly registered in accordance with the 
laws and regulations of the exporting Party; 
 
(b)  that the exporter knows and understands the rules of origin 
as set out in this Chapter; 
 
(c)  that the exporter has a satisfactory level of experience in 
export in accordance with the laws and regulations of the 
exporting Party; 
 
(d)  that  the  exporter  has  a  record  of  good  compliance, 
measured by risk management of the competent authority 
of the exporting Party; 
 
(e)  that the exporter, in the case of a trader, is able to obtain a 
declaration  by  the  producer  confirming  the  originating 
status of the good for which the Declaration of Origin is 
completed by an approved exporter and the readiness of 
the producer to cooperate in verification in accordance with 
Article 3.24 (Verification) and meet all requirements of this 
Chapter; and 
 
(f)  that the exporter has a well-maintained bookkeeping and 
record-keeping system, in accordance with the laws and 
regulations of the exporting Party. 
 
2.  The competent authority of an exporting Party shall: 
 
(a)  make its approved exporter procedures and requirements 
public and easily available; 
 
(b)  grant  the  approved  exporter  authorisation  in  writing  or 
electronically; 
 
(c)  provide the approved exporter an authorisation code which 
must be included in the Declaration of Origin; and 
 
(d)  promptly  include  the  information  on  the  authorisation 
granted in the approved exporter database referred to in 
paragraph 6. 
 
3.  An approved exporter shall have the following obligations: 
 
(a)  to  allow  the  competent  authority  of  an  exporting  Party 
access  to  records  and  premises  for  the  purposes  of 
3-18  
monitoring the use of authorisation, in accordance with 
Article 3.27 (Record-Keeping Requirement); 
 
(b)  to complete Declarations of Origin only for goods for which 
the approved exporter has been allowed to do so by the 
competent authority of an exporting Party and for which it 
has  all  appropriate  documents  proving  the  originating 
status of the goods concerned at the time of completing the 
declaration; 
 
(c)  to  take  full  responsibility  for  all  Declarations  of  Origin 
completed, including any misuse; and 
 
(d)  to promptly inform the competent authority of an exporting 
Party of any changes related to the information referred to 
in subparagraph (b). 
 
4.  Each Party shall promptly include the following information of its 
approved exporters in the approved exporter database: 
 
(a)  the legal name and address of the exporter; 
 
(b)  the approved exporter authorisation code; 
 
(c)  the issuance date and, if applicable, the expiry date of its 
approved exporter authorisation; and 
 
(d)  a list of goods subject to the authorisation, at least at the 
HS Chapter level. 
 
Any change in the items referred to in subparagraphs (a) through 
(d), or withdrawals or suspensions of authorisations, shall be 
promptly included in the approved exporter database. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  4,  no  Party  shall  be  required  to 
provide  the  information  referred  to  in  that  paragraph  to  the 
approved exporter database if it has established its own secured 
website, containing the above information, that is accessible to 
the Parties. 
 
6.  The RCEP Joint Committee may designate the custodian of the 
approved exporter database, which shall be accessible online by 
the Parties. 
 
 
3-19  
7.  The competent authority of the exporting Party shall monitor the 
use of the authorisation, including verification of the Declarations 
of Origin by an approved exporter, and withdraw the authorisation 
where the conditions referred to in paragraph 1 are not met. 
 
8.  An approved exporter shall be prepared to submit at any time, on 
request  of  the  customs  authorities  of  the  importing  Party,  all 
appropriate documents proving the originating status of the goods 
concerned, including statements from the suppliers or producers 
in accordance with the laws and regulations of the importing Party 
as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 3.22: Claim for Preferential Tariff Treatment 
 
1.  An  importing  Party  shall  grant  preferential  tariff  treatment  in 
accordance with this Agreement to an originating good on the 
basis of a Proof of Origin. 
 
2.  Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an importing Party 
shall provide that, for the purposes of claiming preferential tariff 
treatment, the importer shall: 
 
(a)  make a declaration in its customs declaration that the good 
qualifies as an originating good; 
 
(b)  have a valid Proof of Origin in its possession at the time the 
declaration referred to in subparagraph (a) is made; and 
 
(c)  provide an original or a certified true copy of the Proof of 
Origin to the importing Party if required by the importing 
Party. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, the importing Party may not 
require a Proof of Origin if: 
 
(a)  the customs value of the importation does not exceed US$ 
200  or  the  equivalent  amount  in  the  importing  Party’s 
currency or any higher amount as the importing Party may 
establish; or 
 
(b)  it is a good for which the importing Party has waived the 
requirement, 
 
provided that the importation does not form part of a series of 
importations carried out or planned for the purpose of evading 
3-20  
compliance  with  the  importing  Party’s  laws  and  regulations 
governing  claims  for  preferential  tariff  treatment  under  this 
Agreement. 
 
4.  The customs authority of the importing Party may require, where 
appropriate, the importer to submit supporting evidence that a 
good qualifies as an originating good, in accordance with the 
requirements of this Chapter. 
 
5.  The importer shall demonstrate that the requirements referred to 
in Article 3.15 (Direct Consignment) have been met and provide 
such  evidence  on  request  of  the  customs  authority  of  the 
importing Party. 
 
6.  Where a Proof of Origin is submitted to the customs authority of 
an importing Party after the expiration of the period of time for its 
submission, such Proof of Origin may still be accepted, subject to 
the  importing  Party’s  laws,  regulations,  or  administrative 
practices, when failure to observe the period of time results from 
force majeure or other valid causes beyond the control of the 
importer or exporter. 
 
 
Article 3.23: Post-Importation Claims for Preferential Tariff 
 
1.  Each Party, subject to its laws and regulations, shall provide that 
where a good would have qualified as an originating good when 
it was imported into that Party, the importer of the good may, 
within a period specified by its laws and regulations, and after the 
date on which the good was imported, apply for a refund of any 
excess duties, deposit, or guarantee paid as the result of the good 
not  having  been  granted  preferential  tariff  treatment,  on 
presentation of the following to the customs authority of that Party: 
 
(a)  a Proof of Origin and other evidence that the good qualifies 
as an originating good; and 
 
(b)  such other documentation in relation to the importation as 
the  customs  authority  may  require  to  satisfactorily 
evidence the preferential tariff treatment claimed. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  1,  each  Party  may  require,  in 
accordance with its laws and regulations, that the importer notify 
the  customs  authority  of  that  Party  of  its  intention  to  claim 
preferential tariff treatment at the time of importation. 
 
3-21  
Article 3.24: Verification6 
 
1.  For the purposes of determining whether a good imported into one 
Party from another Party qualifies as an originating good under 
this Chapter, the competent authority of the importing Party may 
conduct a verification process by means of: 
 
(a)  a  written  request  for  additional  information  from  the 
importer; 
 
(b)  a  written  request  for  additional  information  from  the 
exporter or producer; 
 
(c)  a written request for additional information to the issuing 
body or competent authority of the exporting Party; 
 
(d)  a  verification  visit  to  the  premises  of  the  exporter  or 
producer in the exporting Party to observe the facilities and 
the production processes of the good and to review the 
records referring to origin, including accounting files;7 or 
 
(e)  any other procedures to which the concerned Parties may 
agree. 
 
2.  The importing Party shall:  
 
(a)  for  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  1(b),  send  a  written 
request with a copy of the Proof of Origin and the reasons 
for the request to the exporter or producer of the good, and 
the competent authority of the exporting Party; 
 
(b)  for  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  1(c),  send  a  written 
request with a copy of the Proof of Origin and the reasons 
for the request to the issuing body or competent authority 
of the exporting Party; and 
 
(c)  for the purposes of subparagraph 1(d), request the written 
consent of the exporter or producer whose premises are 
going to be visited, and the competent authority of the 
 
6 For the purposes of this Article, a Party may designate one of its contact points 
designated pursuant to Article 3.33 (Contact Points) as a single contact point for the 
verification of its exported goods with a view to facilitating the verification. 
 
7 A verification visit under this subparagraph shall only be undertaken after a verification 
process in accordance with subparagraph (c) has been conducted. 
3-22  
exporting Party and state the proposed date and location 
for the visit and its specific purpose. 
 
3.  On  request  of  the  importing  Party,  a  verification  visit  to  the 
premises of the exporter or producer may be conducted with the 
consent and assistance of the exporting Party, according to the 
procedures agreed between the importing Party and exporting 
Party. 
 
4.  For  a  verification  under  subparagraphs  1(a)  through  (d),  the 
importing Party shall: 
 
(a)  allow the importer, exporter, producer, or the issuing body 
or competent authority of the exporting Party between 30 
and 90 days from the date of receipt of the written request 
for information under subparagraphs 1(a) through (c) to 
respond; 
 
(b)  allow the exporter, producer, or the competent authority to 
consent or refuse the request within 30 days of the date of 
its receipt of the written request for a verification visit under 
subparagraph 1(d); and 
 
(c)  endeavour to make a determination following a verification 
within 90 and 180 days of the date of its receipt of the 
information necessary to make the determination. 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraph 1, the importing Party shall provide 
a written notification of the result of verification with the reasons 
for that result to the importer, exporter, or producer of the good, 
or the issuing body or competent authority of the exporting Party 
that received the verification request. 
 
6.  The customs authority of the importing Party may suspend the 
application of preferential tariff treatment while waiting for the 
result of verification.  The importing Party shall permit the release 
of the good, but may require that such release be subject to 
lodgment of a security in accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
 
Article 3.25: Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment 
 
1.  The  customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party  may  deny 
preferential tariff treatment where: 
 
(a)  the good does not meet the requirements of this Chapter; 
3-23  
or 
 
(b)  the importer, exporter, or producer of the good fails or has 
failed to comply with any of the relevant requirements of 
this Chapter for obtaining preferential tariff treatment. 
 
2.  If the customs authority of the importing Party denies a claim for 
preferential tariff treatment, it shall provide the decision in writing 
to the importer that includes the reasons for the decision. 
 
3.  The customs authority of the importing Party may determine that 
a good does not qualify as an originating good and may deny 
preferential tariff treatment where: 
 
(a)  the  customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party  has  not 
received sufficient information to determine that the good 
is originating; 
 
(b)  the exporter, producer, or the competent authority of the 
exporting Party fails to respond to a written request for 
information in accordance with Article 3.24 (Verification); or 
 
(c)  the request for a verification visit in accordance with Article 
3.24 (Verification) is refused. 
 
 
Article 3.26: Minor Discrepancies or Errors 
 
The  customs  authority  of  an  importing  Party  shall  disregard  minor 
discrepancies  or  errors,  such  as  slight  discrepancies  between 
documents, omissions of information, typing errors, or protrusions from 
the designated field, provided that these minor discrepancies or errors 
do not create doubt as to the originating status of the good. 
 
 
Article 3.27: Record-Keeping Requirement 
 
1.  Each Party shall require that: 
 
(a)  its  exporters,  producers,  issuing  bodies,  or  competent 
authorities retain, for at least a period of three years from 
the date of issuance of the Proof of Origin, or a longer 
period in accordance with its relevant laws and regulations, 
all records necessary to prove that the good for which the 
Proof of Origin was issued was originating; and 
 
3-24  
(b)  its importers retain, for at least a period of three years from 
the date of importation of the good, or a longer period in 
accordance  with  its  relevant  laws  and  regulations,  all 
records  necessary  to  prove  that  the  good  for  which 
preferential tariff treatment was claimed was originating. 
 
2.  The records referred to in paragraph 1 may be maintained in any 
medium  that  allows  for  prompt  retrieval,  including  in  digital, 
electronic, optical, magnetic, or written form, in accordance with 
the Party’s laws and regulations. 
 
 
Article 3.28: Consultations 
 
The Parties shall consult when necessary to ensure that this Chapter is 
administered effectively, uniformly, and consistently in order to achieve 
the spirit and objectives of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 3.29: Electronic System for Origin Information Exchange 
 
The Parties may develop an electronic system for origin information 
exchange to ensure the effective and efficient implementation of this 
Chapter in a manner jointly determined by the relevant Parties. 
 
 
Article 3.30: Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit 
 
A Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment to an originating good that, 
on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party: 
 
(a)  was being transported to that Party in accordance with 
Article 3.15 (Direct Consignment); or 
 
(b)  had not been imported into that Party, 
 
if a valid claim under Article 3.22 (Claim for Preferential Tariff Treatment) 
for preferential tariff treatment is made within 180 days of the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement for that Party. 
 
 
Article 3.31: Penalties 
 
Each  Party  shall  adopt  or  maintain  appropriate  penalties  or  other 
measures against violations of its laws and regulations relating to this 
Chapter. 
3-25  
Article 3.32: Communication Language 
 
Communications between the importing Party and the exporting Party 
shall be conducted in the English language. 
 
 
Article 3.33: Contact Points 
 
Each Party shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement for that Party, designate one or more contact points for the 
implementation of this Chapter and notify the other Parties of the contact 
details of that contact point or those contact points.  Each Party shall 
promptly notify the other Parties of any change to those contact details. 
 
 
Article 3.34: Transposition of Product-Specific Rules  
 
1.  Prior  to  the  entry  into  force  of  any  amended  version  of  the 
Harmonized System, the Parties shall consult to prepare updates 
to this Chapter and Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules) that are 
necessary to reflect changes to the Harmonized System. 
 
2.  The  Parties  shall  ensure  that  the  transposition  of  Annex  3A 
(Product-Specific  Rules)  is  carried  out  without  impairing  the 
Product-Specific Rules and is completed in a timely manner. 
 
3.  The transposition of Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules) that is in 
the nomenclature of any revised Harmonized System following 
periodic  amendments  to  the  Harmonized  System,  shall  be 
adopted by the RCEP Joint Committee, upon recommendation of 
the Committee on Goods.  The Parties shall promptly publish the 
adopted transposition of Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules) in the 
nomenclature of the revised Harmonized System. 
 
4.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Article,  “transposition”  means  the 
measures necessary to support the effective implementation of 
the Product-Specific Rules set out in Annex 3A (Product-Specific 
Rules), to reflect the periodic updates of the Harmonized System 
nomenclature. 
 
 
Article 3.35: Amendments to Annexes 
 
Amendments relating only to Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules) and 
Annex 3B (Minimum Information Requirements) may be endorsed by the 
3-26  
RCEP Joint Committee by consensus.  The amendment shall enter into 
force in accordance with Article 20.4 (Amendments).8 
 
8 For Japan, for the purposes of this Article, “the completion of their respective 
applicable legal procedures” referred to in Article 20.4 (Amendments) shall be read as 
“the completion of internal procedures within the Government of Japan”. 
3-27 