 
CHAPTER 18 
 
INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 18.1: Meetings of the RCEP Ministers 
 
1.  The Ministers of the RCEP (hereinafter referred to as the “RCEP 
Ministers” in this Chapter) shall meet within one year of the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement, and every year thereafter 
unless  the  Parties  agree  otherwise,  to  consider  any  matter 
relating to this Agreement. 
 
2.  The  RCEP  Ministers  shall  take  decisions  on  any  matter  by 
consensus. 
 
 
Article 18.2: Establishment of the RCEP Joint Committee 
 
The Parties hereby establish an RCEP Joint Committee consisting of 
senior officials designated by each Party. 
 
 
Article 18.3: Functions of the RCEP Joint Committee 
 
1.  The functions of the RCEP Joint Committee shall be as follows: 
 
(a)  to consider any matter relating to the implementation and 
operation of this Agreement; 
 
(b)  to consider any proposal to amend this Agreement; 
 
(c)  to  discuss  differences  that  may  arise  regarding  the 
interpretation or application of this Agreement and to issue 
interpretations of the provisions of this Agreement as it 
may deem appropriate and necessary; 
 
(d)  to seek expert advice on any matter within its functions; 
 
(e)  to refer matters, assign tasks, or delegate functions to any 
subsidiary  body  established  pursuant  to  Article  18.6 
(Subsidiary  Bodies  of  the  RCEP  Joint  Committee) 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “subsidiary  body”  in  this 
Chapter); 
 
18-1  
(f)  to  supervise  and  coordinate  the  work  of  all  subsidiary 
bodies; 
 
(g)  to consider and take any decisions on issues referred to it 
by any subsidiary body; 
 
(h)  to restructure, reorganise, or dissolve any subsidiary body, 
if necessary; 
 
(i)  to establish and thereafter supervise an RCEP Secretariat, 
on terms agreed by the Parties, to provide secretariat and 
technical support to the RCEP Joint Committee and its 
subsidiary bodies; 
 
(j)  to hold dialogue forums on topics to be agreed by Parties, 
which may include participation from the business sector, 
experts,  academia,  and  other  stakeholders,  as 
appropriate; and 
 
(k)  to carry out any other function as the Parties may agree. 
 
2.  The RCEP Joint Committee shall report to the RCEP Ministers 
and may, as appropriate, refer matters to the RCEP Ministers for 
consideration and decision. 
 
 
Article 18.4: Rules of Procedure of the RCEP Joint Committee 
 
1.  The RCEP Joint Committee shall take decisions on any matter by 
consensus.1 
 
2.  The RCEP Joint Committee shall establish its rules of procedure 
at its first meeting. 
 
 
Article 18.5: Meetings of the RCEP Joint Committee 
 
1.  The RCEP Joint Committee shall meet within one year of the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement and prior to the first meeting 
 
1 The RCEP Joint Committee shall be deemed to have taken a decision by consensus 
if no Party present at the meeting when the decision is taken objects to the proposed 
decision.  In case a Party is absent from the meeting, the decision shall be circulated 
to that Party for it to consider the decision, seek clarification where required, and that 
Party may convey its acknowledgement within 14 days of the circulation of the decision. 
18-2  
of the RCEP Ministers, and every year thereafter unless the 
Parties agree otherwise. 
 
2.  The RCEP Joint Committee shall convene alternately, and on a 
rotational basis, in a Party which is a Member State of ASEAN 
and a Party which is not a Member State of ASEAN, unless the 
Parties agree otherwise. 
 
3.  The  RCEP  Joint  Committee  shall  be  co-chaired  by  a 
representative appointed by the Parties which are Member States 
of ASEAN and a representative appointed by the Parties which 
are not Member States of ASEAN on a rotational basis, unless 
the Parties agree otherwise.  The role of the co-chairs of the 
RCEP  Joint  Committee  shall  be  to  ensure  the  effective  and 
impartial management of the meetings, with a view to facilitating 
consensus among the Parties. 
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  be  responsible  for  the  composition  of  its 
delegation. 
 
5.  The  RCEP  Joint  Committee  may  carry  out  its  work  through 
whatever  means  that  are  appropriate,  which  may  include 
electronic mail, videoconferencing, or other means. 
 
 
Article 18.6: Subsidiary Bodies of the RCEP Joint Committee 
 
1.  The RCEP Joint Committee shall establish at its first meeting: 
 
(a)  a Committee on Goods, to cover work on trade in goods; 
rules of origin; customs procedures and trade facilitation; 
sanitary and phytosanitary measures; standards, technical 
regulations, and conformity assessment procedures; and 
trade remedies; 
 
(b)  a Committee on Services and Investment, to cover work 
on  trade  in  services  including  financial  services, 
telecommunication  services,  and  professional  services; 
temporary movement of natural persons; and investment; 
 
(c)  a Committee on Sustainable Growth, to cover work on 
small and medium enterprises; economic and technical 
cooperation; and emerging issues; and 
 
18-3  
(d)  a Committee on the Business Environment, to cover work 
on intellectual property; electronic commerce; competition; 
and government procurement. 
 
2.  Each Committee established pursuant to paragraph 1 shall have 
the  functions  set  out  for  it  in  Annex  18A  (Functions  of  the 
Subsidiary Bodies of the RCEP Joint Committee), and any other 
functions as set out for it in this Agreement or agreed by the 
Parties. 
 
3.  The RCEP Joint Committee may establish additional subsidiary 
bodies including other committees, as it deems necessary. 
 
4.  Each Committee established pursuant to paragraph 1 shall meet 
within one year of the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
and every year thereafter unless the Parties agree otherwise. 
 
 
Article 18.7: Meetings of Subsidiary Bodies 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, any subsidiary body: 
 
(a)  shall be composed of representatives from each Party; 
 
(b)  shall be co-chaired by a representative appointed by the 
Parties  which  are  Member  States  of  ASEAN  and  a 
representative  appointed  by  the  Parties  which  are  not 
Member States of ASEAN on a rotational basis, unless the 
Parties agree otherwise; 
 
(c)  shall take decisions on any matter within its functions by 
consensus;2 
 
(d)  may carry out its work through whatever means that are 
appropriate,  which  may  include  electronic  mail, 
videoconferencing, or other means; and 
 
(e)  shall meet as directed by the RCEP Joint Committee or as 
otherwise agreed by the Parties. 
   
 
2 A subsidiary body shall be deemed to have taken a decision by consensus if no Party 
present at the meeting when the decision is taken objects to the proposed decision.  In 
case a Party is absent from the meeting, the decision shall be circulated to that Party 
for it to consider the decision, seek clarification where required, and that Party may 
convey its acknowledgement within 14 days of the circulation of the decision. 
18-4  
Article 18.8: Contact Point 
 
Each Party shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement for that Party, designate an overall contact point to facilitate 
communications  among  the  Parties  on  any  matter  relating  to  this 
Agreement and notify the other Parties of the contact details of that 
contact point.  Each Party shall promptly notify the other Parties of any 
change to those contact details.  All official communications in this 
regard shall be in the English language. 
 
 
18-5 