 
CHAPTER 11 
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
 
SECTION A 
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND BASIC PRINCIPLES 
 
 
Article 11.1: Objectives 
 
1.  The  objective  of  this  Chapter  is  to  reduce  distortion  and 
impediments  to  trade  and  investment  by  promoting  deeper 
economic integration and cooperation through the effective and 
adequate  creation,  utilisation,  protection,  and  enforcement  of 
intellectual property rights, while recognising: 
 
(a)  the Parties’ different levels of economic development and 
capacity, and differences in national legal systems; 
 
(b)  the need to promote innovation and creativity; 
 
(c)  the need to maintain an appropriate balance between the 
rights  of  intellectual  property  right  holders  and  the 
legitimate interests of users and the public interest; 
 
(d)  the importance of facilitating the diffusion of information, 
knowledge, content, culture, and the arts; and 
 
(e)  that establishing and maintaining a transparent intellectual 
property system and promoting and maintaining adequate 
and effective protection and enforcement of intellectual 
property rights provide confidence to right holders and 
users. 
 
2.  The protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights 
should contribute to the promotion of technological innovation and 
to the transfer and dissemination of technology, to the mutual 
advantage of producers and users of technological knowledge 
and in a manner conducive to social and economic welfare, and 
to a balance of rights and obligations. 
 
11-1  
Article 11.2: Scope of Intellectual Property  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, “intellectual property” means copyright 
and  related  rights,  trademarks,  geographical  indications,  industrial 
designs, patents, layout-designs (topographies) of integrated circuits, 
protection of plant varieties, and protection of undisclosed information, 
as referred to in Sections 1 through 7 of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
 
Article 11.3: Relation to Other Agreements1 
 
In relation to intellectual property, in the event of any inconsistency 
between  a  provision  of  this  Chapter  and  a  provision  of  the  TRIPS 
Agreement, the latter shall prevail to the extent of such inconsistency. 
 
 
Article 11.4: Principles 
 
1.  A Party may, in formulating or amending its laws and regulations, 
adopt measures necessary to protect public health and nutrition 
and to promote the public interest in sectors of vital importance to 
its socio-economic and technological development, provided that 
such measures are consistent with this Chapter. 
 
2.  Appropriate measures, provided that they are consistent with this 
Chapter, may be needed to prevent the abuse of intellectual 
property rights by right holders or the resort to practices which 
unreasonably restrain trade or adversely affect the international 
transfer of technology.2 
 
3.  Further to paragraph 2, the Parties recognise the need to foster 
competition. 
 
 
Article 11.5: Obligations 
 
Each Party shall give effect to the provisions of this Chapter.  A Party 
may, but shall not be obliged to, implement in its law more extensive 
 
1 For the purposes of the application of this Article, the Parties agree that the fact that 
this Chapter provides for more extensive protection of intellectual property than is 
required by the TRIPS Agreement does not mean there is an inconsistency within the 
meaning of this Article and paragraph 2 of Article 20.2 (Relation to Other Agreements). 
 
2  The  Parties  recognise  that  intellectual  property  rights  by  themselves  do  not 
necessarily confer market dominance. 
 
11-2  
protection than is required by this Chapter, provided that such protection 
does not contravene this Chapter.  Each Party shall be free to determine 
the appropriate method of implementing this Chapter within its own legal 
system and practice. 
 
 
Article 11.6: Exhaustion of Intellectual Property Rights 
 
Each Party shall be free to establish its own regime for exhaustion of 
intellectual property rights. 
 
 
Article 11.7: National Treatment 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  the  nationals3  of  other  Parties 
treatment  no  less  favourable  than  that  it  accords  to  its  own 
nationals with regard to the protection4 of intellectual property, 
subject to the exceptions provided in the TRIPS Agreement and 
in  the  multilateral  agreements  administered  by  the  World 
Intellectual  Property  Organization  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“WIPO” in this Chapter), to which that Party is party.  
 
2.  A Party may avail itself of the exceptions referred to in paragraph 
1 in relation to its judicial and administrative procedures, including 
requiring a national of another Party to designate an address for 
service of process in its territory, or to appoint an agent in its 
territory, only where such exceptions are: 
 
 
3 For the purposes of this paragraph, a “national” of a Party shall include, in respect of 
the relevant right, any person as defined in subparagraph (t) of Article 1.2 (General 
Definitions) of that Party that would meet the criteria for eligibility for protection provided 
for in the agreements listed in Article 11.9 (Multilateral Agreements) and the TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
4 For the purposes of this paragraph, “protection” includes matters affecting the 
availability, acquisition, scope, maintenance, and enforcement of intellectual property 
rights as well as matters affecting the use of intellectual property rights specifically 
covered by this Chapter. 
 
Further, for the purposes of this paragraph, “protection” also includes the provisions 
concerning:  
 
(a)  effective  technological  measures  set  out  in  Article  11.14 
(Circumvention of Effective Technological Measures); and 
 
(b)  rights management information set out in Article 11.15 (Protection for 
Electronic Rights Management Information). 
 
11-3  
(a)  necessary  to  secure  compliance  with  its  laws  and 
regulations that are not inconsistent with this Chapter; and 
 
(b)  not applied in a manner that would constitute a disguised 
restriction on trade. 
 
3.  The obligations under paragraph 1 do not apply to procedures 
provided in multilateral agreements concluded under the auspices 
of WIPO relating to the acquisition or maintenance of intellectual 
property rights. 
 
 
Article 11.8: The TRIPS Agreement and Public Health 
 
1.  The  Parties  reaffirm  the  Doha  Declaration  on  the  TRIPS 
Agreement and Public Health adopted on 14 November 2001.  In 
particular, the Parties have reached the following understandings 
regarding this Chapter: 
 
(a)  the Parties affirm the right to fully use the flexibilities as 
duly recognised in the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS 
Agreement and Public Health; 
 
(b)  the Parties agree that this Chapter does not and should not 
prevent a Party from taking measures to protect public 
health; and 
 
(c)  the Parties affirm that this Chapter can and should be 
interpreted and implemented in a manner supportive of 
each Party’s right to protect public health and, in particular, 
to promote access to medicines for all. 
 
2.  In recognition of the Parties’ commitment to access to medicines 
and public health, this Chapter does not and should not prevent 
the effective utilisation of Article 31bis of the TRIPS Agreement, 
and  the  Annex  and  Appendix  to  the  Annex  to  the  TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
3.  The  Parties  recognise  the  importance  of  contributing  to  the 
international  efforts  to  implement  Article  31bis  of  the  TRIPS 
Agreement, and the Annex and Appendix to the Annex to the 
TRIPS Agreement. 
 
 
   
11-4  
Article 11.9: Multilateral Agreements 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  ratify  or  accede  to  the  following  multilateral 
agreements to which it is not yet party: 
 
(a)  the  Paris  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  Industrial 
Property done at Paris on 20 March 1883, as revised at 
Stockholm  on  14  July  1967  and  amended  on  28 
September  1979  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Paris 
Convention” in this Chapter); 
 
(b)  the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and 
Artistic Works done at Berne on 9 September 1886, as 
revised at Paris on 24 July 1971 and amended on 28 
September 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the “Berne 
Convention” in this Chapter); 
 
(c)  the Patent Cooperation Treaty done at Washington on 19 
June  1970,  as  amended  on  28  September  1979  and 
modified  on  3  February  1984  and  3  October  2001 
(hereinafter referred to as the “PCT” in this Chapter); 
 
(d)  the Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning 
the International Registration of Marks adopted at Madrid 
on 27 June 1989, as amended on 3 October 2006 and 12 
November 2007 (hereinafter referred to as the “Madrid 
Protocol” in this Chapter); 
 
(e)  the  WIPO  Copyright  Treaty  adopted  in  Geneva  on  20 
December 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the “WCT” in 
this Chapter); 
 
(f)  the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty adopted 
in Geneva on 20 December 1996 (hereinafter referred to 
as the “WPPT” in this Chapter); and 
 
(g)  the Marrakesh Treaty to Facilitate Access to Published 
Works for Persons Who are Blind, Visually Impaired, or 
Otherwise  Print  Disabled  adopted  in  Marrakesh  on  27 
June  2013  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Marrakesh 
Treaty” in this Chapter). 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to ratify or accede to the following 
multilateral agreement to which it is not yet party: the Budapest 
Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Micro-
11-5  
organisms  for  the  Purposes  of  Patent  Procedure  done  at 
Budapest on 28 April 1977, as amended on 26 September 1980. 
 
3.  If any Party intends to ratify or accede to any of the following 
multilateral  agreements,  it  may  seek  to  cooperate  with  other 
Parties  to  support  its  ratification  or  accession  to  and  its 
implementation of that multilateral agreement: 
 
(a)  the 1991 Act of International Convention for the Protection 
of New Varieties of Plants as revised at Geneva on 19 
March 1991; 
 
(b)  the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement Concerning the 
International  Registration  of  Industrial  Designs  done  at 
Geneva on 2 July 1999; 
 
(c)  the  International  Convention  for  the  Protection  of 
Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting 
Organisations  done  at  Rome  on  26  October  1961 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Rome Convention” in this 
Chapter); and 
 
(d)  the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks done at 
Singapore on 27 March 2006. 
 
 
SECTION B 
COPYRIGHT AND RELATED RIGHTS 
 
 
Article  11.10:  Exclusive  Rights  of  Authors,  Performers,  and 
Producers of Phonograms 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide to authors of works the exclusive right to 
authorise any communication to the public of their works, by wire 
or wireless means, including the making available to the public of 
their works in such a way that members of the public may access 
these works from a place and at a time individually chosen by 
them. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  provide  to  performers  and  producers  of 
phonograms5 the exclusive right to authorise the making available 
 
5 For the purposes of this Chapter, a Party may interpret “producers of phonograms” 
as having the same meaning as “authors of sound recordings”. 
 
11-6  
to  the  public  of  their  performances  fixed  in  phonograms  and 
phonograms, respectively, by wire or wireless means, in such a 
way that members of the public may access them from a place 
and at a time individually chosen by them. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide to authors, performers, and producers of 
phonograms  the  exclusive  right  to  authorise  or  prohibit  the 
reproduction of their works, performances fixed in phonograms, 
and phonograms in any manner or form. 
 
 
Article 11.11: Right to Remuneration for Broadcasting6 
 
Performers and producers of phonograms shall enjoy the right to a single 
equitable remuneration, or alternatively the right to receive royalties, for 
the  direct  or  indirect  use  of  phonograms  published  for  commercial 
purposes for broadcasting. 
 
 
Article  11.12:  Protection  of  Broadcasting  Organisations  and 
Encrypted Programme-Carrying Satellite Signals 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide  to  broadcasting  organisations  the 
exclusive right to prohibit the re-broadcasting of their broadcasts 
by at least wireless means, the fixation of their broadcasts, and 
the reproduction of fixations of their broadcasts.7, 8 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to provide measures, in accordance 
with its laws and regulations, against at least one of the following 
acts: 
 
(a)  wilful reception9; 
 
6 Where a Party is, or becomes, party to the WPPT, that Party’s obligations under this 
Article shall be subject to any commitments and reservations that that Party has made, 
or will make, under the WPPT. 
 
7 Where a Party does not grant such rights to broadcasting organisations, it shall 
provide owners of copyright in the subject matter of broadcasts with the possibility of 
preventing the above acts, subject to the provisions of the Berne Convention. 
 
8 Any Party may, in relation to the rights conferred under this paragraph, provide for 
conditions, limitations, exceptions, and reservations, to the extent permitted by the 
Rome Convention. 
 
9 For greater certainty and for the purposes of subparagraphs 2(a) and (c), a Party may 
provide that wilful reception of an encrypted programme-carrying satellite signal means 
reception and use of the signal, or reception and decoding of the signal.  
11-7  
 
(b)  wilful distribution10;or 
 
(c)  wilful reception and further distribution11, 
 
of a programme-carrying signal that originated as an encrypted 
programme-carrying satellite signal, knowing that it has been 
decoded without the authorisation of the lawful distributor of the 
signal. 
 
 
Article 11.13: Collective Management Organisations 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  foster  the  establishment  of 
appropriate  organisations  for  the  collective  management  of 
copyright and related rights.  Each Party shall encourage such 
organisations to operate in a manner that is fair, efficient, publicly 
transparent,  and  accountable  to  their  members,  which  may 
include open and transparent record keeping of the collection and 
distribution of royalties12. 
 
2.  The Parties recognise the importance of fostering cooperation 
between their respective collective management organisations for 
the purposes of mutually ensuring easier licensing of content 
among the Parties, as well as encouraging13 mutual transfer of 
royalties for use of works or other copyright-protected subject 
matters of the nationals of another Party. 
 
 
Article 11.14: Circumvention of Effective Technological Measures 
 
Each Party shall provide adequate legal protection and effective legal 
remedies against the circumvention of effective technological measures 
that are used by authors, performers, or producers of phonograms in 
connection with the exercise of their rights referred to in this Section and 
 
 
10 For greater certainty, a Party may interpret “distribution” as “retransmission to the 
public”. 
 
11 For greater certainty, a Party may interpret “distribution” as “retransmission to the 
public”. 
 
12 For greater certainty, “royalties” may include equitable remuneration. 
 
13 For greater certainty, “encouraging” does not require a Party to intercede in any 
contractual arrangements between collective management organisations. 
11-8  
that  restrict  acts,  in  respect  of  their  works,  performances,  or 
phonograms, which are not authorised by the authors, the performers, 
or the producers of phonograms concerned or permitted by the laws and 
regulations of that Party. 
 
 
Article  11.15:  Protection  for  Electronic  Rights  Management 
Information 
 
To  protect  electronic  rights  management  information  (hereinafter 
referred to as “RMI” in this Chapter)14, each Party shall provide adequate 
and effective legal remedies against any person knowingly performing 
without authority any of the following acts knowing, or with respect to civil 
remedies with reasonable grounds to know, that it will induce, enable, 
facilitate, or conceal an infringement of any copyright or related rights 
referred to in this Chapter: 
 
(a)  removing or altering any electronic RMI; or 
 
(b)  distributing,  importing  for  distribution,  broadcasting, 
communicating, or making available to the public copies of 
works, performances fixed in phonograms, or phonograms, 
knowing that electronic RMI has been removed or altered 
without authority. 
 
 
   
 
14 For the purposes of this Article, “RMI” means: 
 
(a)  information that identifies the work, the performance, the phonogram, 
the author of the work, the performer of the performance, the producer 
of the phonogram, or the owner of any right in the work, performance, 
or phonogram; 
 
(b)  information  about  the  terms  and  conditions  of  use  of  the  work, 
performance, or phonogram; or 
 
(c)  any numbers or codes that represent the information described in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this footnote, 
 
when any of these items of information is attached to a copy of a work, performances 
fixed  in  phonograms,  or  a  phonogram,  or  appears  in  connection  with  the 
communication or the making available of a work, performances fixed in phonograms, 
or a phonogram to the public.  
11-9  
Article 11.16: Limitations and Exceptions to Providing Protection 
and Remedies for Technological Measures and RMI 
 
1.  Each Party may provide for appropriate limitations and exceptions 
to  measures  implementing  Article  11.14  (Circumvention  of 
Effective Technological Measures) and Article 11.15 (Protection 
for Electronic Rights Management Information) in accordance 
with its laws and regulations. 
 
2.  The  obligations  set  forth  in  Article  11.14  (Circumvention  of 
Effective Technological Measures) and Article 11.15 (Protection 
for  Electronic  Rights  Management  Information)  are  without 
prejudice to the rights, limitations, exceptions, or defences to 
infringement of any copyright or related right under a Party’s laws 
and regulations. 
 
 
Article 11.17: Government Use of Software 
 
Each Party confirms its commitment to: 
 
(a)  maintain  appropriate  laws,  regulations,  or  policies  that 
provide  for  its  central  government  to  use  only  non-
infringing computer software in a manner consistent with 
this Chapter; and 
 
(b)  encourage its regional and local governments to adopt or 
maintain  measures  similar  to  those  referred  to  in 
subparagraph (a). 
 
 
Article 11.18: Limitations and Exceptions 
 
1.  Each Party shall confine limitations or exceptions to exclusive 
rights to certain special cases which do not conflict with a normal 
exploitation of the work, performance, or phonogram, and do not 
unreasonably  prejudice  the  legitimate  interests  of  the  right 
holder.15 
 
2.  Nothing  in  paragraph  1  shall  reduce  or  extend  the  scope  of 
applicability of the limitations and exceptions available to a Party 
 
15 For greater certainty, this paragraph shall not prevent a Party from providing 
limitations or exceptions for broadcasts in accordance with multilateral agreements 
related to intellectual property to which that Party is, or becomes, party. 
11-10  
as a party to the TRIPS Agreement, the Berne Convention, the 
Rome Convention, the WCT, or the WPPT. 
 
3.  Each Party shall endeavour to provide an appropriate balance in 
its copyright and related rights system, among other things by 
means of limitations and exceptions consistent with paragraph 1, 
for legitimate purposes, which may include education, research, 
criticism,  comment,  news  reporting,  and  facilitating  access  to 
published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired, or 
otherwise print disabled. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, a Party may adopt or maintain limitations or 
exceptions to the rights referred to in paragraph 1 for fair use, as 
long as any such limitation or exception is confined as stated in 
paragraph 1. 
 
 
SECTION C 
TRADEMARKS 
 
 
Article 11.19: Trademarks Protection 
 
Each Party shall ensure that any signs or any combination of signs 
capable of distinguishing the goods and services of one undertaking 
from those of other undertakings, shall be capable of constituting a 
trademark.  Such signs, in particular words including personal names, 
letters, numerals, figurative elements, three-dimensional shapes, and 
combinations of colours, as well as any combination of such signs, shall 
be eligible for registration as trademarks.  Where signs are not inherently 
capable of distinguishing the relevant goods or services, a Party may 
make registrability depend on distinctiveness acquired through use.  No 
Party shall require, as a condition of registration of a trademark, that 
signs be visually perceptible, nor deny registration of a trademark solely 
on the grounds that the sign of which it is composed is a sound.16 
 
 
Article 11.20: Protection of Collective Marks and Certification Marks 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide that trademarks include collective marks 
and  certification  marks.    A  Party  is  not  obligated  to  treat 
certification  marks  as  a  separate  category  in  its  laws  and 
regulations, provided that those marks are protected. 
 
16 A Party may require an adequate description, which can be represented graphically, 
of the trademark. 
11-11  
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  also  provide  that  signs  that  may  serve  as 
geographical  indications  are  capable  of  protection  under  its 
trademark system in accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
 
Article 11.21: Trademarks Classification System 
 
1.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain a trademark classification 
system that is consistent with the Nice Agreement Concerning the 
International  Classification  of  Goods  and  Services  for  the 
Purposes of the Registration of Marks done at Nice on 15 June 
1957, as amended from time to time (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Nice Agreement” in this Chapter). 
 
2.  A Party that relies on translations of the classification system 
established by the Nice Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Nice Classification” in this Chapter) shall follow updated versions 
of the Nice Classification to the extent that official translations 
have been issued and published. 
 
 
Article 11.22: Registration and Applications of Trademarks 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide  a  system  for  the  registration  of 
trademarks, which shall include: 
(a)  a requirement to provide to the applicant a communication 
in writing, which may be provided electronically, of the 
reasons for a refusal to register a trademark; 
 
(b)  an  opportunity  for  the  applicant  to  respond  to 
communications from the Party’s competent authorities, to 
contest an initial refusal, and to make a judicial appeal of a 
final refusal to register a trademark; 
 
(c)  an opportunity to do at least one of the following in relation 
to a trademark before it has been registered: 
 
(i)  oppose a trademark application; or 
 
(ii)  provide  the  competent  authority  with  information 
that the trademark application does not satisfy the 
requirements for registration; 
 
11-12  
(d)  an opportunity to do at least one of the following in relation 
to a trademark after it has been registered: 
 
(i)  oppose the registration; 
 
(ii)  seek revocation of the registration;  
 
(iii)  seek cancellation of the registration; or 
 
(iv)  seek invalidation of the registration; and 
 
(e)  a requirement that administrative decisions17 in opposition, 
revocation, cancellation, or invalidation proceedings shall 
be  reasoned  and  in  writing.    Such  decisions  may  be 
provided electronically. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide: 
(a)  a  system  for  the  electronic  application  for  processing, 
registering, and maintenance of, trademarks; and 
 
(b)  a  publicly  accessible  online  electronic  database  of 
trademark applications and registrations. 
 
 
Article 11.23: Rights Conferred 
 
Each Party shall provide that the owner of a registered trademark shall 
have the exclusive right to prevent all third parties not having the owner’s 
consent from using in the course of trade identical or similar signs for 
goods or services that are identical or similar to those goods or services 
in respect of which the trademark is registered, where such use would 
result in a likelihood of confusion.  In the case of the use of an identical 
sign for identical goods or services, a likelihood of confusion shall be 
presumed.  The rights described in this Article shall not prejudice any 
existing prior rights, nor shall they affect the possibility of a Party making 
rights available on the basis of use. 
 
 
   
 
17 For the purposes of this subparagraph, “administrative decisions” include quasi-
judicial decisions. 
11-13  
Article 11.24: Exceptions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 11.25: Protection of Trademarks that Predate Geographical 
Indications 
 
Each  Party  shall  protect  trademarks  where  they  predate,  in  its 
jurisdiction,  geographical  indications,  in  accordance  with  the  TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 11.26: Protection of Well-Known Trademarks 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide for appropriate measures to refuse or 
cancel the registration, and to prohibit the use,18 of a trademark 
that  is  identical  or  similar  to  a  well-known  trademark19, 20  for 
identical or similar goods or services, if the use of that trademark 
is likely to cause confusion with the prior well-known trademark. 
 
2.  Each  Party  recognises  the  importance  of  the  Joint 
Recommendation  Concerning  Provisions  on  the  Protection  of 
Well-Known Marks as adopted by the Assembly of the Paris 
Union for the Protection of Industrial Property and the General 
Assembly of WIPO at the Thirty-Fourth Series of Meetings of the 
Assemblies of the Member States of WIPO, 20 to 29 September 
1999. 
 
3.  No  Party  shall  require,  as  a  condition  for  determining  that  a 
trademark is a well-known trademark, that the trademark has 
 
18  For  greater  certainty,  a  Party  may  comply  with  the  obligation  to  provide  for 
appropriate measures to prohibit the use of the trademark that is identical or similar to 
a well-known trademark under this paragraph by providing its judicial authorities with 
the authority to prohibit the use of such a trademark. 
 
19 For the purposes of this paragraph, a Party may treat “a reproduction, an imitation, 
or a translation of a well-known trademark” as “identical or similar to a well-known 
trademark”. 
 
20 The Parties understand that a well-known trademark is one that was already well-
known before, as determined by a Party, the application for, registration of, or use of 
the first-mentioned trademark. 
 
11-14  
been registered in that Party or in another jurisdiction, included on 
a list of well-known trademarks, or given prior recognition as a 
well-known trademark. 
 
 
Article 11.27: Bad Faith Trademarks21 
 
Each Party shall provide that its competent authority has the authority to 
refuse an application or cancel a registration where the application to 
register the trademark was made in bad faith in accordance with its laws 
and regulations. 
 
 
Article 11.28: One and the Same Application Relating to Several 
Goods or Services 
 
Each  Party  shall  provide  that  one  and  the  same  application  for 
registration of a trademark may relate to several goods or services, or 
any combination thereof, irrespective of whether they belong to one 
class or to several classes of the Nice Classification. 
 
 
SECTION D 
GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS 
 
 
Article 11.29: Protection of Geographical Indications 
 
Each  Party  shall  ensure  in  its  laws  and  regulations  adequate  and 
effective  means  to  protect  geographical  indications.    Each  Party 
recognises that such protection may be provided through a trademark 
system, a sui generis system, or other legal means, provided that all 
requirements under the TRIPS Agreement are fulfilled. 
 
 
Article  11.30:  Domestic  Administrative  Procedures  for  the 
Protection of Geographical Indications  
 
1.  If a Party provides domestic administrative procedures22 for the 
protection  of  geographical  indications,  whether  through  a 
 
21 For the purposes of this Article, the competent authority of a Party may take into 
consideration whether the trademark is identical or similar to a well-known trademark 
of another person. 
 
22 For the purposes of this Article, “administrative procedures” include quasi-judicial 
procedures. 
11-15  
trademark or a sui generis system, that Party shall with respect to 
applications for that protection: 
 
(a)  receive  those  applications  for  the  protection  of 
geographical indications without requiring intercession by 
a Party on behalf of its nationals;23 
 
(b)  process those applications in compliance with reasonable 
procedures and formalities24; 
 
(c)  ensure  that  its  laws  and  regulations  governing  the 
protection of geographical indications are readily available 
to the public and clearly set out the procedures relating to 
the  protection  of  geographical  indications  including 
procedures relating to the filing of applications; 
 
(d)  make available information to allow the public to obtain 
guidance concerning the procedures for filing applications 
for the protection of geographical indications, and allow an 
applicant or their representative to ascertain the status of 
specific applications; and 
 
(e)  ensure that such applications are published for opposition 
and  provide  procedures  for  opposing  geographical 
indications  that  are  the  subject  of  applications.  
Oppositions  shall  be  received  without  requiring 
intercession by a Party on behalf of its nationals. 
 
2.  With respect to the protection of a geographical indication referred 
to  in  paragraph  1,  a  Party  shall  provide  procedures  for 
cancellation25  of  the  protection  afforded  to  a  geographical 
indication. 
 
   
 
 
23 For greater certainty, a Party may require that an application for protection of a 
geographical indication originating in another Party include evidence indicating to the 
satisfaction of the former Party that the geographical indication is protected in that other 
Party. 
 
24 The Parties understand that for the purposes of this subparagraph, reasonable 
procedures  and  formalities  may  be  considered  to  be  not  overly  burdensome 
procedures and formalities. 
 
25  For  greater  certainty,  for  the  purposes  of  this  Section,  cancellation  may  be 
implemented through nullification or revocation proceedings. 
11-16  
Article 11.31: Grounds for Opposition and Cancellation 
 
1.  With  respect  to  the  opposition  procedures  referred  to  in 
subparagraph  1(e)  of  Article  11.30  (Domestic  Administrative 
Procedures for the Protection of Geographical Indications), each 
Party  shall  provide  procedures  that  allow  at  least  interested 
persons to oppose the protection of a geographical indication, and 
that allow for any such protection to be refused at least on the 
ground that the geographical indication is a term customary in 
common language as the common name26 for the relevant good 
in the territory of that Party. 
 
2.  If a Party provides protection of a geographical indication through 
the  procedures  referred  to  in  Article  11.30  (Domestic 
Administrative  Procedures  for  the  Protection  of  Geographical 
Indications)  to  the  translation  or  transliteration  of  that 
geographical indication, that Party shall make available at least 
the ground which is the same as that referred to in paragraph 1 
with respect to oppositions to the protection of that translation or 
transliteration.27 
 
3.  With respect to the procedures referred to in paragraph 1, in 
determining  whether  a  term  is  a  term  customary  in  common 
language as the common name for the relevant good in the 
territory of a Party, each Party shall ensure that its competent 
authorities have the authority to take into account how consumers 
understand the term within the territory of that Party.  Factors 
relevant to such consumer understanding may include: 
 
(a)  whether the term is used to refer to the type of good in 
question,  as  indicated  by  competent  sources  such  as 
dictionaries, newspapers, and relevant websites; and 
 
(b)  how the good referenced by the term is marketed and used 
in trade in the territory of that Party.28 
 
26 Where a Party applies this Article to geographical indications for wines and spirits or 
applications for those geographical indications, the Parties understand that nothing in 
this Section shall require a Party to protect a geographical indication of any other Party 
with respect to products of the vine for which the relevant indication is identical with the 
customary name of a grape variety that exists in the territory of that Party.  
 
27 A Party shall not be required to apply this paragraph to applications for geographical 
indications for wines and spirits.  
 
28 For the purposes of this subparagraph, a Party’s authorities may take into account, 
as appropriate, whether the term is used in relevant international standards recognised 
by the Parties to refer to a type or class of good in the territory of that Party. 
11-17  
 
4.  With  respect  to  the  cancellation  procedure  referred  to  in 
paragraph 2 of Article 11.30 (Domestic Administrative Procedures 
for the Protection of Geographical Indications), no Party shall 
preclude  the  possibility  that  the  protection  of  a  geographical 
indication may be cancelled, or otherwise cease, on the basis that 
the protected term has ceased meeting the conditions upon which 
the protection was originally granted in that Party. 
 
 
Article 11.32: Multi-Component Terms 
 
With respect to the procedures referred to in Article 11.30 (Domestic 
Administrative  Procedures  for  the  Protection  of  Geographical 
Indications)  and  Article  11.31  (Grounds  for  Opposition  and 
Cancellation), an individual component of a multi-component term that 
is protected as a geographical indication shall not be protected in a Party 
if that individual component is a term customary in the common language 
as the common name for the associated good in the territory of that 
Party. 
 
 
Article 11.33: Date of Protection of a Geographical Indication 
 
The protection of a geographical indication through a Party’s domestic 
administrative  procedures29  referred  to  in  Article  11.30  (Domestic 
Administrative  Procedures  for  the  Protection  of  Geographical 
Indications)  shall  commence  no  earlier  than  the  filing  date30  of  the 
application for the protection in that Party or the registration date in that 
Party, as applicable. 
 
 
Article  11.34:  Protection  or  Recognition  of  Geographical 
Indications Pursuant to International Agreements 
 
If a Party protects or recognises a geographical indication pursuant to 
an international agreement involving a Party or a non-Party, and that 
agreement  is  concluded  after  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement  for  that  Party,  and  that  geographical  indication  is  not 
 
 
29 For the purposes of this Article, “administrative procedures” include quasi-judicial 
procedures. 
 
30 For greater certainty, where a Party protects a geographical indication through its 
trademark system, the filing date referred to in this Article includes, as applicable, the 
priority filing date under the Paris Convention. 
11-18  
protected through the procedures referred to in Article 11.30 (Domestic 
Administrative  Procedures  for  the  Protection  of  Geographical 
Indications), that Party shall: 
 
(a)  make available to the public information concerning the 
procedures for protection or recognition of geographical 
indications,  and  if  applicable,  allow  at  least  interested 
persons to ascertain the status of requests for protection 
or recognition; 
 
(b)  ensure that those geographical indications that are being 
considered for protection or recognition are published for 
opposition,  provide  procedures  for  at  least  interested 
persons to oppose those geographical indications on the 
ground referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 11.31 (Grounds 
for Opposition and Cancellation), and apply Article 11.32 
(Multi-Component  Terms)  with  respect  to  those 
procedures; and 
 
(c)  make available to the public details regarding the terms 
that  the  Party  is  considering  protecting  or  recognising 
through an international agreement involving a Party or a 
non-Party. 
 
 
Article  11.35:  Protection  or  Recognition  of  Geographical 
Indications under Concluded International Agreements 
 
1.  No Party shall be required to apply Article 11.34 (Protection or 
Recognition of Geographical Indications Pursuant to International 
Agreements)  to  geographical  indications  that  have  been 
specifically identified in, and that are protected or recognised 
pursuant to, an international agreement involving a Party or a non-
Party, provided that the agreement was concluded prior to the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party. 
 
2.  In respect of international agreements referred to in paragraph 1 
that permit the protection or recognition of a new geographical 
indication, a Party shall:31 
 
 
31 A Party may comply with this paragraph by complying with the obligations under 
Article 11.30 (Domestic Administrative Procedures for the Protection of Geographical 
Indications) and Article 11.31 (Grounds for Opposition and Cancellation). 
11-19  
(a)  apply  subparagraph  (c)  of  Article  11.34  (Protection  or 
Recognition  of  Geographical  Indications  Pursuant  to 
International Agreements); and 
 
(b)  ensure an opportunity for at least interested persons to 
comment regarding the protection or recognition of the 
new geographical indication for a reasonable period of 
time before such a term is protected or recognised. 
 
 
SECTION E 
PATENTS 
 
 
Article 11.36: Patentable Subject Matter 
 
1.  Subject to paragraphs 2 and 3, patents shall be available for any 
inventions,  whether  products  or  processes,  in  all  fields  of 
technology, provided that they are new, involve an inventive step, 
and are capable of industrial application32.  Subject to paragraph 
3 and Section M (Transition Periods and Technical Assistance), 
patents shall be available and patent rights enjoyable without 
discrimination as to the place of invention, the field of technology, 
and whether products are imported or locally produced. 
 
2.  A Party may exclude from patentability inventions, the prevention 
within  its  territory  of  the  commercial  exploitation  of  which  is 
necessary to protect ordre public or morality, including to protect 
human, animal or plant life or health, or to avoid serious prejudice 
to the environment, provided that such exclusion is not made 
merely because the exploitation is prohibited by its laws and 
regulations. 
 
3.  A Party may also exclude from patentability: 
 
(a)  diagnostic,  therapeutic,  and  surgical  methods  for  the 
treatment of humans or animals; and 
 
(b)  plants  and  animals  other  than  micro-organisms,  and 
essentially biological processes for the production of plants 
or animals other than non-biological and microbiological 
processes.  However, each Party shall provide for the 
 
32  For  the  purposes  of  this  Section,  “inventive  step”  and  “capable  of  industrial 
application” may be deemed by a Party to be synonymous with "non-obvious" and 
"useful", respectively. 
11-20  
protection of plant varieties either by patents or by an 
effective sui generis system or by any combination thereof.  
The  Parties  shall  review  this  subparagraph  upon  any 
amendment  to  subparagraph  3(b)  of  Article  27  of  the 
TRIPS Agreement with a view to deciding whether to adopt 
a similar amendment to this subparagraph. 
 
 
Article 11.37: Rights Conferred 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide that a patent shall confer on its owner 
the following exclusive rights: 
 
(a)  where the subject matter of a patent is a product, to prevent 
third parties not having the owner’s consent from the acts 
of making, using, offering for sale, selling, or importing33 for 
these purposes that product; and 
 
(b)   where  the  subject  matter  of  a  patent  is  a  process,  to 
prevent third parties not having the owner’s consent from 
the act of using the process, and from the acts of using, 
offering for sale, selling, or importing for these purposes at 
least the product obtained directly by that process. 
 
2.  Patent owners shall also have the right to assign, or transfer by 
succession, the patent and to conclude licensing contracts. 
 
 
Article 11.38: Exceptions to Rights Conferred 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 11.39: Other Use without Authorisation of the Right Holder 
 
For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement shall limit a Party’s rights 
and  obligations  under  Article  31  and  Article  31bis  of  the  TRIPS 
 
33 This right, like all other rights conferred under this Chapter in respect of the use, sale, 
importation, or other distribution of goods, is subject to Article 11.6 (Exhaustion of 
Intellectual Property Rights). 
 
11-21  
Agreement, and the Annex and Appendix to the Annex to the TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 11.40: Experimental Use of a Patent 
 
Without limiting Article 11.38 (Exceptions to Rights Conferred), each 
Party shall provide that any person may do an act that would otherwise 
infringe a patent if the act is done for experimental purposes34 relating to 
the subject matter of a patented invention. 
 
 
Article 11.41: Procedural Aspects of Examination and Registration 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the importance of improving the quality and 
efficiency of their respective patent systems as well as simplifying 
and  streamlining  the  procedures  and  processes  of  their 
respective competent authorities for the benefit of all users of their 
respective patent systems and the public as a whole. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide a patent system, which includes: 
 
(a)  a requirement to provide to the applicant a communication 
in writing of the reasons for a refusal to grant a patent;  
 
(b)  an opportunity for the applicant to make amendments and 
observations in connection with their applications;35 
 
(c)  an opportunity to do at least one of the following in relation 
to a patent before it has been granted: 
 
(i)  file an opposition against the patent application; or  
 
(ii)  provide  the  competent  authority  with  information 
that  could  deny  novelty  or  inventive  step  of  an 
invention claimed in the patent application;  
 
 
34 For greater certainty, each Party may determine, consistent with Article 11.38 
(Exceptions to Rights Conferred), what acts fall within the meaning of “experimental 
purposes”. 
 
35 For the purposes of this subparagraph, the Parties understand that “amendments” 
may include corrections and “observations” may include explanations or responses to 
a finding on its application by the competent authority whether or not such response is 
given in conjunction with an amendment or correction to the application. 
 
11-22  
(d)  an opportunity to do at least one of the following in relation 
to a patent after it has been granted: 
 
(i)  oppose the grant; 
 
(ii)  seek revocation; 
 
(iii)  seek cancellation; or 
 
(iv)  seek invalidation; and 
 
(e)  a requirement that administrative decisions36 in opposition, 
revocation, cancellation, or invalidation proceedings shall 
be  reasoned  and  in  writing.    Such  decisions  may  be 
provided electronically. 
 
 
Article 11.42: Grace Period for Patents 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 11.43: Electronic Patent Application System 
 
Each Party is encouraged to adopt an electronic patent application 
system so as to facilitate ease of application by patent applicants. 
 
 
Article 11.44: 18-Month Publication  
 
1.  Each Party shall publish any patent application promptly after the 
expiry of 18 months from its filing date or, if priority is claimed, 
from its earliest priority date, unless the application has been 
published  earlier,  or  has  been  withdrawn,  abandoned,  or 
refused37. 
 
 
36 For the purposes of this subparagraph, “administrative decisions” may include quasi-
judicial decisions. 
 
37 The Parties understand that, for the purposes of this Article, an application is 
withdrawn, abandoned, or refused in accordance with the respective Party’s laws and 
regulations. 
11-23  
2.  If a pending application is not published promptly in accordance 
with paragraph 1, the Party shall publish that application or the 
corresponding patent as soon as practicable. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require a Party to 
publish any information the disclosure of which it considers to be 
contrary to its national security or to public order or morality. 
 
4.  Each Party shall provide that the applicant may request the early 
publication of an application prior to the expiry of the period 
referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 11.45: Information as Prior Art Made Available to the Public 
on the Internet 
 
The Parties recognise that information made available to the public on 
the internet may form part of the prior art. 
 
 
Article 11.46: Expedited Examination 
 
Each Party shall endeavour to provide for domestic procedures for a 
patent applicant to request to expedite the examination of its patent 
application in accordance with that Party’s laws, regulations, and rules. 
 
 
Article  11.47:  Introduction  of  International  Patent  Classification 
System 
 
Each Party shall endeavour to use a patent classification system that is 
consistent with the Strasbourg Agreement Concerning the International 
Patent Classification done at Strasbourg on 24 March 1971, as amended 
from time to time. 
 
 
Article 11.48: Protection of New Varieties of Plants38 
 
Each Party shall provide for the protection of new varieties of plants 
through an effective sui generis plant variety protection system. 
 
   
 
38 For greater certainty, with respect to the protection of plant varieties, subparagraph 
3(b) of Article 11.36 (Patentable Subject Matter) is subject to this Article. 
11-24  
SECTION F 
INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS 
 
 
Article 11.49: Protection of Industrial Designs 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide  for  the  protection  of  independently 
created industrial designs that are new or original.  A Party may 
provide  that  designs  are  not  new  or  original  if  they  do  not 
significantly differ from known designs or combinations of known 
design features.  A Party may provide that such protection shall 
not  extend  to  designs  dictated  essentially  by  technical  or 
functional considerations. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that requirements for securing protection 
for textile designs, in particular in regard to any cost, examination, 
or publication, do not unreasonably impair the opportunity to seek 
and obtain such protection.  Each Party shall be free to meet this 
obligation through industrial design law or through copyright law. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide that the owner of a protected industrial 
design has the right to prevent third parties not having the owner’s 
consent from making, selling, or importing articles bearing or 
embodying a design which is a copy, or substantially a copy, of 
the  protected  design,  when  such  acts  are  undertaken  for 
commercial purposes. 
 
4.  Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the protection of 
industrial  designs,  provided  that  such  exceptions  do  not 
unreasonably conflict with the normal exploitation of protected 
industrial  designs  and  do  not  unreasonably  prejudice  the 
legitimate interests of the owner of the protected design, taking 
account of the legitimate interests of third parties. 
 
5.  Each  Party  confirms  that  protection  for  industrial  designs  is 
available for designs: 
 
(a)  embodied in a part of an article; or, alternatively, 
 
(b)  having a particular regard, where appropriate, to a part of 
an  article  in  the  context  of  the  article  as  a  whole,  in 
accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
 
11-25  
Article 11.50: Information as Prior Art for Designs Made Available 
to the Public on the Internet39 
 
The Parties recognise that information made available to the public on 
the internet may form part of the prior art for designs. 
 
 
Article 11.51: Registration or Grant and Applications of Industrial 
Designs 
 
Each  Party  shall  provide  a  system  for  the  registration  or  grant  of 
industrial designs, which shall include: 
(a)  a requirement to provide to the applicant a communication 
in writing, which may be provided electronically, of the 
reasons  for  a  refusal  to  register  or  grant  an  industrial 
design; 
 
(b)  an  opportunity  for  the  applicant  to  respond  to 
communications from the Party’s competent authorities for 
industrial designs, and to contest, challenge, or appeal a 
refusal to register or grant an industrial design; 
  
(c)  an  opportunity  to  seek  cancellation  or  invalidation  or 
revocation of a registration or grant; and 
 
(d)  a  requirement  that  administrative  decisions40  in 
cancellation or invalidation or revocation proceedings shall 
be  reasoned  and  in  writing.    Such  decisions  may  be 
provided electronically. 
 
 
Article 11.52: Introduction of International Classification System for 
Industrial Designs 
 
Each Party shall endeavour to use a classification system for industrial 
designs that is consistent with the Locarno Agreement Establishing an 
International Classification for Industrial Designs signed at Locarno on 8 
October 1968, as amended from time to time. 
 
 
 
39 For greater certainty, nothing in this Article shall require a Party to ensure that its 
administrative authorities conduct substantive examination of designs. 
 
40 For the purposes of this subparagraph, “administrative decisions” may include quasi-
judicial decisions. 
11-26  
SECTION G 
GENETIC RESOURCES, TRADITIONAL KNOWLEDGE, AND 
FOLKLORE41 
 
 
Article  11.53:  Genetic  Resources,  Traditional  Knowledge,  and 
Folklore 
 
1.  Subject to its international obligations, each Party may establish 
appropriate measures42 to protect genetic resources, traditional 
knowledge, and folklore. 
 
2.  Where a Party has disclosure requirements relating to the source 
or origin of genetic resources43 as part of its patent system, that 
Party shall endeavour to make available its laws, regulations, and 
procedures with respect to such requirements, including on the 
internet where feasible, in such a manner as to enable interested 
persons and other Parties to become acquainted with them. 
 
3.  Each Party shall endeavour to pursue quality patent examination, 
which may include: 
 
(a)  that when determining prior art, relevant publicly available 
documented information related to traditional knowledge 
associated  with  genetic  resources  may  be  taken  into 
account;  
 
(b)  an opportunity for third parties to cite, in writing, to the 
competent examining authority, prior art disclosures that 
may have a bearing on patentability, including prior art 
disclosures  related  to  traditional  knowledge  associated 
with genetic resources; and 
 
41 For greater certainty, this Section is without prejudice to the position of any Party on 
genetic resources, traditional knowledge, and folklore, including in any bilateral or 
multilateral  negotiations  through  any  fora,  such  as  the  WIPO  Intergovernmental 
Committee on Intellectual Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and 
Folklore. 
 
42 For greater certainty, the Parties understand that such “appropriate measures” are a 
matter for each Party to determine and may not necessarily involve its intellectual 
property system. 
 
43 The Parties recognise the fact that some Parties also require, if applicable, in their 
patent systems, evidence of prior informed consent and access and benefit sharing for 
genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge. 
 
11-27  
 
(c)  if  applicable  and  appropriate,  the  use  of  databases  or 
digital  libraries  which  contain  relevant  information  on 
traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources. 
 
 
 SECTION H 
UNFAIR COMPETITION 
 
 
Article 11.54: Effective Protection against Unfair Competition 
 
Each Party shall provide for effective protection against acts of unfair 
competition in accordance with the Paris Convention44. 
 
 
Article 11.55: Domain Names 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44  For  greater  certainty,  the  Parties  understand  that  Article  10bis  of  the  Paris 
Convention covers acts of unfair competition in relation to the supply of goods and 
services, where relevant. 
11-28  
 
 
 
Article 11.56: Protection of Undisclosed Information 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide protection of undisclosed information in 
accordance  with  paragraph  2  of  Article  39  of  the  TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
2.  Further to paragraph 1, the Parties recognise the importance of 
protecting undisclosed information in relation to the objectives 
specified in paragraph 2 of Article 11.1 (Objectives). 
 
 
SECTION I 
COUNTRY NAMES 
 
 
Article 11.57: Country Names 
 
Each Party shall provide the legal means for interested persons to 
prevent commercial use of the country name of a Party in relation to a 
good in a manner that misleads consumers as to the origin of that good. 
 
 
SECTION J 
ENFORCEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
 
SUBSECTION 1 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
 
 
Article 11.58: General Obligations 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that enforcement procedures as specified 
in this Section are available under its laws and regulations so as 
to  permit  effective  action  against  any  act  of  infringement  of 
intellectual  property  rights  covered  by  this  Chapter,  including 
expeditious  remedies  to  prevent  infringements  and  remedies 
which  constitute  a  deterrent  to  further  infringements.    These 
 
45 The Parties understand that such remedies may, but need not, include, among other 
things, revocation, cancellation, transfer, damages, or injunctive relief.  
11-29  
procedures shall be applied in such a manner as to avoid the 
creation  of  barriers  to  legitimate  trade  and  to  provide  for 
safeguards against their abuse. 
 
2.  Procedures concerning the enforcement of intellectual property 
rights shall be fair and equitable.  They shall not be unnecessarily 
complicated  or  costly,  or  entail  unreasonable  time-limits  or 
unwarranted delays. 
 
3.  In implementing this Section, each Party shall take into account 
the  need  for  proportionality  between  the  seriousness  of  the 
infringement of the intellectual property right and the applicable 
remedies and penalties, as well as, if applicable, the interests of 
third parties. 
 
4.  The Parties understand that this Section does not create any 
obligation to put in place a judicial system for the enforcement of 
intellectual property rights distinct from that for the enforcement 
of law in general, nor does it affect the capacity of each Party to 
enforce its law in general.  Nothing in this Section shall create any 
obligation with respect to the distribution of resources as between 
enforcement of intellectual property rights and the enforcement of 
law in general. 
 
5.  In civil proceedings involving copyright of authors, each Party 
shall provide for a presumption46 that, in the absence of proof to 
the contrary, the person whose name is indicated in the usual 
manner as the author of the work is the author of the work.  The 
obligation contained in the preceding sentence shall apply to 
criminal and administrative proceedings if applicable in a Party’s 
laws and regulations. 
 
 
   
 
46 For greater certainty, a Party may implement this paragraph on the basis of sworn 
statements or documents having evidentiary value, such as statutory declarations.  A 
Party may also provide that these presumptions are rebuttable presumptions that may 
be rebutted by evidence to the contrary. 
 
11-30  
SUBSECTION 2 
CIVIL REMEDIES47 
 
 
Article 11.59: Fair and Equitable Procedures 
 
1.  Each Party shall make available to right holders48 civil judicial 
procedures  concerning  the  enforcement  of  any  intellectual 
property right covered by this Chapter.  Defendants shall have the 
right to written notice which is timely and contains sufficient detail, 
including the basis of the claims.  All parties to the procedures 
shall be allowed to be represented by independent legal counsel, 
and  procedures  shall  not  impose  overly  burdensome 
requirements concerning mandatory personal appearances. All 
parties to such procedures shall be duly entitled to substantiate 
their claims and to present all relevant evidence.  The procedures 
shall  provide  a  means  to  identify  and  protect  confidential 
information,  unless  this  would  be  contrary  to  the  Party’s 
constitutional requirements. 
 
2.  Each Party may permit the use of alternative dispute resolution 
procedures  to  resolve  civil  disputes  concerning  intellectual 
property rights. 
 
 
Article 11.60: Damages 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide49  that  in  civil  judicial  proceedings 
concerning  the  enforcement  of  intellectual  property  rights,  its 
judicial authorities have the authority to order the infringer to pay 
the right holder damages adequate to compensate for the injury 
the right holder has suffered because of an infringement of that 
right  holder’s  intellectual  property  right  by  an  infringer  who 
knowingly,  or  with  reasonable  grounds  to  know,  engaged  in 
infringing activity. 
 
47 A Party may comply with the obligations under this Subsection to provide civil judicial 
procedures concerning the enforcement of geographical indications in accordance with 
footnote 4 of Article 23 of the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
48 For the purposes of this Article, “right holder” includes federations and associations 
that have legal standing to assert such rights. 
 
49 A Party may also provide that the right holder may not be entitled to any of the 
remedies set out in paragraphs 1 and 3 if there is a finding of non-use of a trademark.  
For greater certainty, there is no obligation for a Party to provide for the possibility of 
any of the remedies in paragraphs 1 and 3 to be ordered in parallel. 
11-31  
 
2.  In determining the amount of damages referred to in paragraph 1, 
a Party’s judicial authorities shall have the authority to consider, 
among other things, any legitimate measure of value the right 
holder submits.50 
 
3.  In  cases  of  infringement  of  copyright  or  related  rights  and 
trademark counterfeiting, the judicial authorities shall have the 
authority to order the infringer who knowingly, or with reasonable 
grounds to know, engaged in infringing activity to pay the right 
holder  the  infringer’s  profits  that  are  attributable  to  the 
infringement.51 
 
 
Article 11.61: Court Costs and Fees 
 
Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities, where appropriate, 
have  the  authority  to  order52,  at  the  conclusion  of  civil  judicial 
proceedings concerning the infringement of at least copyright or related 
rights and trademarks, that the prevailing party is awarded payment by 
the losing party of court costs or fees and appropriate attorney’s fees, or 
any other expenses as provided for under that Party’s law. 
 
 
Article  11.62:  Destroying  Infringing  Goods  and  Materials  and 
Implements 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide that in civil judicial procedures its judicial 
authorities have the authority at least at the right holder’s request, 
to order that pirated copyright goods and counterfeit trademark 
goods be destroyed, except in exceptional circumstances, without 
compensation of any sort.53 
 
50 For greater certainty, a Party’s judicial authorities may have the authority to consider 
the value of the infringed goods or services measured by their market price, in 
determining the amount of damages, where appropriate. 
 
51 A Party may comply with this paragraph through presuming those profits to be the 
damages referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
52 The judicial authorities of a Party may have the authority to make such orders through 
separate proceedings after the conclusion of the civil judicial proceedings. 
 
53 For greater certainty, the Parties understand that while judicial authorities have the 
authority to order the destruction of the goods, they may also have the authority to 
order, without compensation of any sort, the disposal of such goods outside the 
channels of commerce in such a manner as to avoid any harm caused to right holders, 
instead of destruction. 
11-32  
 
2.  Each Party shall further provide that in civil judicial procedures its 
judicial authorities have the authority to order that materials and 
implements,  the  predominant  use  of  which  has  been  in  the 
creation of such infringing goods, be, without compensation of 
any sort, disposed54 of outside the channels of commerce in such 
a manner as to minimise the risks of further infringements. 
 
3.  In regard to counterfeit trademark goods, the simple removal of 
the trademark unlawfully affixed shall not be sufficient, other than 
in exceptional cases, to permit the release of goods into the 
channels of commerce. 
 
 
Article 11.63: Confidential Information in Civil Judicial Proceedings 
 
Each Party shall provide that in civil judicial proceedings concerning the 
enforcement of intellectual property rights, its judicial authorities have 
the authority to impose penalties on parties to the proceeding, their 
counsel, experts, or other persons subject to the court’s jurisdiction, for 
violation  of  judicial  orders55  regarding  the  protection  of  confidential 
information produced or exchanged in that proceeding. 
 
 
Article 11.64: Provisional Measures 
 
1.  In civil judicial proceedings concerning trademark counterfeiting, 
each  Party  shall  provide  that  its  judicial  authorities  have  the 
authority to adopt provisional measures to order the seizure, or 
other taking into custody, of suspected infringing goods and both 
of the following: 
 
(a)  materials and implements predominantly used in the act of 
alleged infringement; and 
 
(b)  documentary  evidence  relevant  to  the  alleged 
infringement. 
 
 
54 For greater certainty, the Parties understand that while judicial authorities have the 
authority to order the disposal of the materials and implements, they may also have the 
authority to order, without compensation of any sort, the destruction of such materials 
and implements instead of disposal. 
 
55 For greater certainty, for the purposes of this Article, the Parties understand that a 
Party’s law may use an alternative term to “judicial orders” such as “court orders”. 
11-33  
2.  In  civil  judicial  proceedings  concerning  the  infringement  of 
copyright or related rights, each Party shall provide that its judicial 
authorities have the authority to adopt provisional measures to 
order  the  seizure,  or  other  taking  into  custody,  of  suspected 
infringing goods and at least one of the following: 
 
(a)  materials and implements predominantly used in the act of 
alleged infringement; or 
 
(b)  documentary  evidence  relevant  to  the  alleged 
infringement. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  provide  that  its  judicial  authorities  have  the 
authority  to  adopt  provisional  measures  inaudita  altera  parte 
where appropriate, in particular where any delay is likely to cause 
irreparable  harm  to  the  right  holder  or  where  there  is  a 
demonstrable risk of evidence being destroyed. 
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  provide  that  its  judicial  authorities  have  the 
authority  to  require  an  applicant,  with  respect  to  provisional 
measures, to provide any reasonably available evidence in order 
to satisfy the judicial authority with a sufficient degree of certainty 
that the applicant is the right holder and that the applicant’s right 
is being infringed or that such infringement is imminent, and to 
order the applicant to provide a security or equivalent assurance 
sufficient to protect the defendant and to prevent abuse, and so 
as not to unreasonably deter recourse to procedures for such 
provisional measures. 
 
5.  For  greater  certainty,  the  Parties  understand  that  provisional 
measures shall be implemented in accordance with paragraphs 4 
through 8 of Article 50 of the TRIPS Agreement. 
11-34  
SUBSECTION 3 
BORDER MEASURES 
 
 
Article  11.65:  Suspension  of  the  Release  of  Suspected  Pirated 
Copyright  Goods  or  Counterfeit  Trademark  Goods  by  Right 
Holder’s Application 
 
1.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures56 with respect to 
import  shipments  under  which  a  right  holder,  who  has  valid 
grounds for suspecting that the importation of pirated copyright 
goods or counterfeit trademark goods may take place, may lodge 
an application with the Party’s competent authorities to suspend 
the  release  of  the  suspected  pirated  copyright  goods  or 
counterfeit trademark goods57 in accordance with Article 51 of the 
TRIPS Agreement. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Subsection, “competent authorities” may 
include  the  appropriate  judicial,  administrative,  or  law 
enforcement authorities under a Party’s laws and regulations. 
 
 
Article 11.66: Applications for Suspension or Detention 
 
Each Party shall endeavour to provide that an accepted application58 for 
 
56 The Parties understand that there shall be no obligation to apply such procedures to 
imports of goods put on the market in another Party or non-Party by or with the consent 
of the right holder, or to goods in transit. 
 
57  For  the  purposes  of  Subsection  1  (General  Obligations),  Subsection  2  (Civil 
Remedies), Subsection 3 (Border Measures), and Subsection 4 (Criminal Remedies): 
 
(a)  “counterfeit trademark goods” means any goods, including packaging, 
bearing  without  authorisation  a  trademark  that  is  identical  to  a 
trademark validly registered in respect of such goods, or that cannot 
be distinguished in its essential aspects from such a trademark, and 
that thereby infringes the rights of the owner of the trademark in 
question  under  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  Party  providing 
procedures under those Subsections; and 
 
(b)  “pirated copyright goods” means any goods that are copies made 
without the consent of the right holder or person duly authorised by the 
right holder in the country of production and that are made directly or 
indirectly from an article where the making of that copy would have 
constituted an infringement of a copyright or a related right under the 
law of the Party providing procedures under those Subsections. 
 
58 For the purposes of this Subsection, a Party may treat “application” as meaning 
“recordation”. 
11-35  
suspension or detention remains in force for an appropriate period with 
a view to minimising the administrative burden on right holders. 
 
 
Article 11.67: Security or Equivalent Assurance 
 
Each Party shall provide that its competent authorities shall have the 
authority to require a right holder initiating procedures referred to in 
Article 11.65 (Suspension of the Release of Suspected Pirated Copyright 
Goods or Counterfeit Trademark Goods by Right Holder’s Application) 
to provide a security or equivalent assurance sufficient to protect the 
defendant and the competent authorities and to prevent abuse.  Each 
Party shall provide that the security or equivalent assurance shall not 
unreasonably deter recourse to these procedures. 
 
 
Article 11.68: Information Provided by Competent Authorities to 
Right Holders 
 
Without prejudice to a Party’s laws and regulations pertaining to the 
confidentiality  of  information,  where  its  competent  authorities  have 
detained or suspended the release of goods that are suspected of being 
pirated copyright goods or counterfeit trademark goods, that Party may 
provide that its competent authorities have the authority to inform the 
right holder of the name and address of the consignor, importer, or 
consignee; a description of the goods; the quantity of the goods; and, if 
known, the country of origin of the goods. 
 
 
Article  11.69:  Suspension  of  the  Release  of  Suspected  Pirated 
Copyright Goods or Counterfeit Trademark Goods by Ex Officio 
Action 
 
1.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures with respect to 
import shipments under which its competent authorities may act 
upon their own initiative to suspend the release of suspected59 
pirated copyright goods or counterfeit trademark goods.  Each 
Party shall provide that where its competent authorities act upon 
their own initiative, the importer and the right holder shall be 
promptly notified of the suspension. 
 
 
59 A Party may comply with this obligation on the basis that its competent authorities 
have reasonable cause to believe that the goods are pirated copyright goods or 
counterfeit trademark goods. 
 
11-36  
2.  A Party may adopt or maintain procedures with respect to export 
shipments under which its competent authorities may act upon 
their own initiative to suspend the release of suspected pirated 
copyright goods or counterfeit trademark goods.  That Party shall 
provide that where its competent authorities act upon their own 
initiative,  the  exporter  and  the  right  holder  shall  be  promptly 
notified of the suspension. 
 
3.  Each Party shall only exempt both public authorities and officials 
from liability to appropriate remedial measures where actions are 
taken or intended in good faith. 
 
 
Article 11.70: Information Provided by Right Holders to Competent 
Authorities in Case of Ex Officio Action 
 
Each Party shall provide that its competent authorities shall have the 
authority, where they act on their own initiative, to request a right holder 
to supply relevant information to assist the competent authorities in 
taking the border measures referred to in this Subsection.  A Party may 
also allow a right holder to supply relevant information to its competent 
authorities. 
 
 
Article 11.71: Infringement Determination within Reasonable Period 
by Competent Authorities60 
 
Each  Party  shall  adopt  or  maintain  procedures  under  which  its 
competent authorities may determine, within a reasonable period after 
the initiation of the procedures described in Article 11.65 (Suspension of 
the  Release  of  Suspected  Pirated  Copyright  Goods  or  Counterfeit 
Trademark  Goods  by  Right  Holder’s  Application)  and  Article  11.69 
(Suspension of the Release of Suspected Pirated Copyright Goods or 
Counterfeit Trademark Goods by Ex Officio Action), whether suspected 
pirated copyright goods or counterfeit trademark goods are infringing 
intellectual property rights. 
 
60  A  Party  may  comply  with  the  obligation  under  this  Article  with  respect  to  a 
determination that suspected goods under Article 11.69 (Suspension of the Release of 
Suspected Pirated Copyright Goods or Counterfeit Trademark Goods by Ex Officio 
Action) infringe an intellectual property right through a determination that the suspected 
goods bear a false trade description. 
11-37  
Article 11.72: Destruction Order by Competent Authorities 
 
Each Party shall provide that, without prejudice to other rights of action 
open to the right holder and subject to the right of the defendant to seek 
review by a judicial authority, its competent authorities shall have the 
authority to order the destruction and the authority to order the disposal 
of goods that are determined to be pirated copyright goods or counterfeit 
trademark goods.  In cases where such goods are not destroyed, each 
Party shall ensure that, except in exceptional circumstances, such goods 
are disposed of outside the channels of commerce in such a manner as 
to avoid any harm to the right holder.  In regard to counterfeit trademark 
goods, the simple removal of the trademark unlawfully affixed shall not 
be sufficient, other than in exceptional cases, to permit the release of the 
goods into the channels of commerce. 
 
 
Article 11.73: Fees 
 
Where an application fee, merchandise storage fee, or destruction fee is 
established or assessed in connection with border measures to enforce 
an intellectual property right, each Party shall provide that the fee shall 
not be set at an amount that unreasonably deters recourse to these 
measures. 
 
 
SUBSECTION 4 
CRIMINAL REMEDIES 
 
 
Article 11.74: Criminal Procedures and Penalties 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide for criminal procedures and penalties to 
be applied at least in cases of wilful copyright or related rights 
piracy or trademark counterfeiting on a commercial scale.61 
 
2.  Each Party shall treat wilful importation of pirated copyright goods 
or counterfeit trademark goods on a commercial scale as unlawful 
activities subject to the criminal procedures and penalties referred 
to in paragraph 1.  A Party may comply with its obligation relating 
to importation under this Article by providing that distribution or 
 
61 For the purposes of the application of this Article, paragraph 1 shall not prevent a 
Party from determining the scope of application of criminal procedures and penalties in 
case of wilful related rights piracy on a commercial scale, in accordance with its laws 
and regulations. 
11-38  
sale of such goods on a commercial scale is an unlawful activity 
subject to criminal penalties. 
 
3.  With respect to the offences described in paragraphs 1 and 2, 
each Party shall provide for the following: 
 
(a)  penalties that include sentences of imprisonment as well 
as  monetary  fines  sufficient  to  provide  a  deterrent 
consistent with the level of penalties applied for crimes of 
a corresponding gravity;62 
 
(b)  its  judicial  authorities  have  the  authority  to  order  the 
seizure63  of  suspected  pirated  copyright  goods  or 
counterfeit  trademark  goods,  related  materials  and 
implements predominantly used in the commission of the 
offence, and documentary evidence relevant to the alleged 
offence; and 
 
(c)  its judicial authorities have the authority to order, without 
compensation of any kind for the defendant, the forfeiture 
or destruction of: 
 
(i)  pirated  copyright  goods  or  counterfeit  trademark 
goods; 
 
(ii)  materials  and  implements  that  have  been 
predominantly  used  in  the  creation  of  pirated 
copyright  goods  or  counterfeit  trademark  goods; 
and 
 
(iii)  any other labels or packaging to which a counterfeit 
trademark has been applied and that have been 
used in the commission of the offence. 
 
4.  Recognising the need to address the unauthorised copying64 of a 
cinematographic work on a commercial scale from a performance 
in a movie theatre, which causes significant harm to a right holder 
 
62 Nothing in this Article shall be construed to oblige a Party to provide for the possibility 
of imprisonment and monetary fines to be imposed in parallel. 
   
63 A Party may comply with its obligations under this subparagraph, with respect to pre-
trial seizure, by providing its criminal enforcement authorities with the authority to order 
such seizures. 
 
64 For the purposes of this paragraph, a Party may treat “copying” as synonymous with 
“reproduction”. 
11-39  
in the market for that work, and recognising the need to deter such 
harm, each Party shall adopt or maintain measures, which shall 
at  a  minimum  include  appropriate  criminal  procedures  and 
penalties.65 
 
 
SUBSECTION 5 
ENFORCEMENT IN THE DIGITAL ENVIRONMENT 
 
 
Article 11.75: Effective Action against Infringement in the Digital 
Environment 
 
Each  Party  confirms  that  the  enforcement  procedures  set  out  in 
Subsection 2 (Civil Remedies) and Subsection 4 (Criminal Remedies) 
shall be available to the same extent with respect to acts of infringement 
of copyright or related rights and trademarks, in the digital environment. 
 
 
SECTION K 
COOPERATION AND CONSULTATION 
 
 
Article 11.76: Cooperation and Dialogue 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  the  importance  of  the  utilisation  and 
protection of intellectual property and enforcement of intellectual 
property rights in further promoting trade and investment among 
the Parties. 
 
2.  The Parties acknowledge the significant differences in capacity 
between some Parties in the area of intellectual property. 
 
3.  To facilitate the effective implementation of this Chapter, each 
Party shall cooperate with other Parties in the area of intellectual 
property, and engage in dialogue and information exchange on 
intellectual property issues. 
 
4.  The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate in order to promote 
education and awareness regarding the effective utilisation and 
protection of intellectual property and enforcement of intellectual 
property rights. 
 
65  For  the  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  a  Party  may  determine  specific  criminal 
thresholds for unauthorised copying of a cinematographic work in accordance with its 
laws and regulations. 
11-40  
 
5.  The Parties shall cooperate on border measures with a view to 
eliminating international trade in goods that infringe intellectual 
property rights. 
 
6.  The Parties shall endeavour to, where appropriate, cooperate 
among their respective patent offices to facilitate the sharing of 
search and examination work, and exchanges of information on 
quality  assurance  systems  which  may  facilitate  better 
understanding in the Parties’ patent systems.66 
 
7.  The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate by sharing information 
on steps each Party is taking to help prevent online copyright 
infringement. 
 
8.  The Parties may cooperate on the administration of systems for 
the protection of new varieties of plants, including exceptions to 
the breeder’s rights, in relation to paragraph 3 of Article 11.9 
(Multilateral  Agreements)  or  Article  11.48  (Protection  of  New 
Varieties of Plants). 
 
9.  The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate on issues relating to 
patent grace periods in order to support innovation. 
 
10.  The Parties may cooperate on issues relating to the procedures 
and processes of their respective patent offices, with a view to 
reducing the cost of obtaining the grant of a patent. 
 
11.  The Parties may exchange information on the protection of their 
respective  geographical  indications,  including  information  on 
systems, procedures, and goods covered. 
 
12.  The Parties may cooperate on the training of patent examiners in 
the  examination  of  patent  applications  related  to  traditional 
knowledge associated with genetic resources. 
 
13.  All cooperation activities under this Chapter shall be on request 
of a Party, on mutually agreed terms, and subject to the relevant 
laws and regulations and availability of resources of the Parties 
involved. 
 
 
 
 
66 This paragraph may apply to multilateral information sharing systems to support 
work-sharing initiatives. 
11-41  
SECTION L 
TRANSPARENCY 
 
 
Article 11.77: Transparency 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide  that  final  judicial  decisions  and 
administrative rulings of general application that pertain to the 
availability, scope, acquisition, enforcement, and prevention of 
the abuse of intellectual property rights shall be published, or 
where such publication is not practicable, made publicly available, 
in at least a national language of that Party in such a manner as 
to  enable  the  other  Parties  and  right  holders  to  become 
acquainted with them.  Each Party shall endeavour to provide that 
such final judicial decisions be published online, where feasible.67 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  take  appropriate  measures,  to  the  extent 
possible  under  its  laws  and  regulations,  to  publish  or  make 
available  to  the  public,  information  on  applications  and 
registrations of intellectual property rights, and where applicable, 
legal  status  information  thereof,  such  as  registration  and 
expiration dates. 
 
 
SECTION M 
TRANSITION PERIODS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
 
 
Article 11.78: Transitional Periods for Least Developed Country 
Parties under the TRIPS Agreement 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall derogate from the rights of any Party to 
avail  itself  of  any  applicable  transitional  period  under  the  TRIPS 
Agreement that has been or may be agreed in the WTO, either before, 
on, or after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 11.79: Party-Specific Transition Periods 
 
1.  Noting each Party’s different stage of development, and without 
prejudice  to  Article  11.78  (Transitional  Periods  for  Least 
Developed Country Parties under the TRIPS Agreement), a Party 
may delay the implementation of certain provisions of this Chapter 
 
67 For greater certainty, nothing in this paragraph shall require a Party to specify online 
publication in its laws and regulations. 
11-42  
in  accordance  with  Annex  11A  (Party-Specific  Transition 
Periods). 
 
2.  During the relevant periods set out in Annex 11A (Party-Specific 
Transition Periods), a Party shall not amend a measure to make 
it less consistent with its obligations under the provisions referred 
to in Annex 11A (Party-Specific Transition Periods) for that Party, 
or  adopt  a  new  measure  that  is  less  consistent  with  those 
obligations than relevant measures of that Party that are in effect 
on the date of signature of this Agreement.  This Article does not 
affect the rights and obligations of a Party under an international 
agreement to which it and another Party are party. 
 
 
Article 11.80: Notifications in Relation to Party-Specific Transition 
Periods 
 
1.  Any Party which has a Party-specific transition period for any 
obligation under this Chapter as set out in Annex 11A (Party-
Specific Transition Periods) shall provide a notification to the 
Committee on the Business Environment on its plans for and 
progress towards implementing each such obligation, after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party, as follows: 
 
(a)  for any transition period of five years or less, that Party 
shall provide a notification six months before the expiration 
of the transition period; and 
 
(b)  for any transition period of more than five years, that Party 
shall provide an annual notification on the anniversary of 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party, 
beginning on the fifth anniversary for that Party, and a 
notification  six  months  before  the  expiration  of  the 
transition period.68 
 
2.  Any Party may request additional information regarding another 
Party’s  progress  towards  implementing  the  obligation.    The 
requested Party shall promptly reply to such a request. 
 
3.  No later than the date on which a transition period expires, a Party 
with a Party-specific transition period shall provide a notification 
to the other Parties of what measures it has taken to implement 
the obligation for which it has a transition period. 
 
68 For greater certainty, this subparagraph shall also apply to any extension of a 
transition period set out in Annex 11A (Party-Specific Transition Periods). 
11-43  
 
4.  If a Party fails to provide the notification referred to in paragraph 
3, the matter shall be automatically placed on the agenda for the 
next  regular  meeting  of  the  Committee  on  the  Business 
Environment. 
 
 
Article 11.81: Technical Assistance 
 
1.  In accordance with the objectives of Chapter 15 (Economic and 
Technical  Cooperation),  the  Parties  agree  to  undertake  the 
necessary technical assistance, pursuant to the identified needs 
for the implementation of this Chapter, as set out in Annex 11B 
(List of Technical Assistance Requests). 
 
2.  The technical assistance referred to in paragraph 1 shall be on 
mutually  agreed  terms,  subject  to  the  relevant  rules  and 
regulations and availability of resources of the Parties involved. 
 
 
SECTION N 
 PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
 
 
Article 11.82: Improvement of Procedures for the Administration of 
Intellectual Property Rights 
 
The  Parties  recognise  the  importance  of  providing  efficient 
administration of their intellectual property systems, and in this regard 
each Party shall continue to review and endeavour, where appropriate, 
to  make  improvements  to  its  procedures  for  the  administration  of 
intellectual property rights. 
 
 
Article 11.83: Streamlining of Procedural Requirements on Paper 
 
Further  to  Article  11.82  (Improvement  of  Procedures  for  the 
Administration  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights),  each  Party  shall 
endeavour  to  streamline  any  procedural  requirements  it  maintains 
regarding: 
 
(a)  the  certification  of  translations  in  relation  to  patent 
applications; and 
 
(b)  the authentication of signatures in relation to applications 
for patents, industrial designs, and trademarks. 
11-44 