 
CHAPTER 2 
 
TRADE IN GOODS 
 
 
SECTION A 
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
 
Article 2.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  consular  transactions  means  any  requirements  that 
goods of a Party intended for export to the territory of 
another Party must first be submitted to the supervision of 
the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the 
exporting  Party  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  consular 
invoices  or  consular  visas  for  commercial  invoices, 
certificates  of  origin,  manifests,  shippers’  export 
declarations, or any other customs documentation required 
on or in connection with importation; 
 
(b)  customs duties means any customs or import duty and a 
charge  of  any  kind  imposed  in  connection  with  the 
importation of a good, but does not include any: 
 
(i)  charge  equivalent  to  an  internal  tax  imposed 
consistently with paragraph 2 of Article III of GATT 
1994; 
 
(ii)  anti-dumping  or  countervailing  duty  applied 
consistently with Article VI of GATT 1994, the AD 
Agreement, and the SCM Agreement; or 
 
(iii)  fees or other charges commensurate with the cost 
of services rendered; 
 
(c)  customs value of goods means the value of goods for the 
purposes  of  levying  ad  valorem  customs  duties  on 
imported goods; 
 
(d)  duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
(e)  import  licensing  procedure  means  an  administrative 
procedure requiring the submission of an application or 
2-1  
other documentation, other than that generally required for 
customs clearance purposes, to the relevant administrative 
body  of  the  importing  Party  as  a  prior  condition  for 
importation into the territory of the importing Party; and 
 
(f)  originating  good  means  a  good  that  qualifies  as  an 
originating good in accordance with Chapter 3 (Rules of 
Origin). 
 
 
Article 2.2: Scope  
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter shall apply 
to trade in goods among the Parties. 
 
 
Article 2.3: National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other 
Parties in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994.  To this end, Article 
III of GATT 1994 is incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, 
mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 2.4: Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
1.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party shall 
reduce or eliminate its customs duties on originating goods of 
other  Parties  in  accordance  with  its  Schedule  in  Annex  I 
(Schedules of Tariff Commitments). 
 
2.  For greater certainty, in accordance with the WTO Agreement, 
originating goods of other Parties shall be eligible, at the time of 
importation, for the most-favoured-nation applied rate of customs 
duty for those goods in a Party, where that rate is lower than the 
rate of customs duty provided for in that Party’s Schedule in 
Annex I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments).  Subject to its laws 
and regulations, each Party shall provide that an importer may 
apply for a refund of any excess duty paid for a good if the 
importer did not make a claim for the lower rate at the time of 
importation. 
 
3.  Further to subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4.5 (Transparency), each 
Party shall make publicly available any amendments to its most-
favoured-nation  applied  rate  of  customs  duty,  and  the  latest 
2-2  
customs duty to be applied in accordance with paragraph 1, as 
soon as practicable but not later than the date of the application. 
 
 
Article 2.5: Acceleration of Tariff Commitments1 
 
1.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  preclude  the  Parties  from 
amending  this  Agreement  in  accordance  with  Article  20.4 
(Amendments), to accelerate or improve the tariff commitments 
set  out  in  their  Schedules  in  Annex  I  (Schedules  of  Tariff 
Commitments). 
 
2.  Two or more Parties2 may, based on mutual consent, consult on 
the acceleration or improvement of tariff commitments set out in 
their Schedules in Annex I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments).  
An agreement to accelerate or improve the tariff commitments 
between  these  Parties  shall  be  implemented  through  a 
modification to their Schedules in Annex I (Schedules of Tariff 
Commitments) in accordance with Article 20.4 (Amendments).  
Any such acceleration or improvement of tariff commitments shall 
be extended to all Parties. 
 
3.  A Party may, at any time, unilaterally accelerate or improve its 
tariff commitments set out in its Schedule in Annex I (Schedules 
of Tariff Commitments).  Any such acceleration or improvement 
of its tariff commitment shall be extended to all Parties.  Such 
Party shall inform the other Parties as early as practicable before 
the new preferential rate of customs duty takes effect. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, following a Party’s unilateral acceleration or 
improvement of its tariff commitments referred to in paragraph 3, 
that Party may raise its preferential customs duty to a level not 
exceeding the preferential rate of customs duty set out in its 
Schedule in Annex I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments) for the 
relevant year.  Such Party shall inform the other Parties of the 
date from which the new preferential rate of customs duty takes 
effect, as early as practicable before such date. 
 
 
   
 
1 For greater certainty, this Article shall apply only to tariff commitments under this 
Agreement. 
 
2  For the purposes of this paragraph, “two or more Parties” means some of, but not all 
of, the Parties. 
2-3  
Article 2.6 Tariff Differentials 
 
1.  All originating goods subject to tariff differentials3 shall be eligible 
for preferential tariff treatment applicable to the originating goods 
of  an  exporting  Party  pursuant  to  the  importing  Party’s  tariff 
commitments set out in its Schedule in Annex I (Schedules of 
Tariff Commitments) at the time of importation, provided that the 
exporting Party is the RCEP country of origin. 
 
2.  The RCEP country of origin for an originating good shall be the 
Party where the good acquired its originating status in accordance 
with Article 3.2 (Originating Goods).  With regard to subparagraph 
(b) of Article 3.2 (Originating Goods), the RCEP country of origin 
for an originating good shall be the exporting Party, provided that 
the production process, other than the minimal operations set out 
in paragraph 5, for that originating good occurred in that exporting 
Party. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraph 2, for an originating good identified by 
an importing Party in its Appendix to its Schedule in Annex I 
(Schedules of Tariff Commitments), the RCEP country of origin 
shall be the exporting Party, provided that the good meets the 
additional requirement specified in that Appendix. 
 
4.  In the event that the exporting Party of an originating good is not 
established to be the RCEP country of origin in accordance with 
paragraphs 2 and 3, the RCEP country of origin for that originating 
good shall be the Party that contributed the highest value of 
originating materials used in the production of that good in the 
exporting  Party.    In  that  case,  that  originating  good  shall  be 
eligible  for  preferential  tariff  treatment  applicable  to  that 
originating good of the RCEP country of origin. 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraph 2, a “minimal operation” is any 
operation set out below: 
 
(a)  preserving operations to ensure that the good remains in 
good condition for the purposes of transport or storage; 
 
(b)  packaging or presenting goods for transportation or sale; 
 
 
3 The Parties understand that “tariff differentials” refers to different tariff treatment that 
an importing Party applies for the same originating good. 
2-4  
(c)  simple4 processes, consisting of sifting, screening, sorting, 
classifying, sharpening, cutting, slitting, grinding, bending, 
coiling, or uncoiling; 
 
(d)  affixing or printing of marks, labels, logos, or other like 
distinguishing signs on goods or their packaging; 
 
(e)  mere dilution with water or another substance that does not 
materially alter the characteristics of the good; 
 
(f)  disassembly of products into parts; 
 
(g)  slaughtering5 of animals; 
 
(h)  simple painting and polishing operations; 
 
(i)  simple peeling, stoning, or shelling; 
 
(j)  simple mixing of goods, whether or not of different kinds; 
or 
 
(k)  any combination of two or more operations referred to in 
subparagraphs (a) through (j). 
 
6.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 4, the importing Party shall 
allow an importer to make a claim for preferential tariff treatment 
at either: 
 
(a)  the highest rate of customs duty that the importing Party 
applies  to  the  same  originating  good  from  any  of  the 
Parties  contributing  originating  materials  used  in  the 
production of such good, provided that the importer is able 
to prove such a claim.  For greater certainty, originating 
materials refer only to those originating materials taken 
into account in the claim for originating status of the final 
good; or 
 
(b)  the highest rate of customs duty that the importing Party 
applies  to  the  same  originating  good  from  any  of  the 
Parties. 
 
4 For the purposes of this paragraph, “simple” describes an activity which does not 
need special skills, or machines, apparatus, or equipment especially produced or 
installed for carrying out the activity. 
 
5 For the purposes of this paragraph, “slaughtering” means the mere killing of animals. 
2-5  
 
7.  Notwithstanding Article 20.8 (General Review), the Parties shall 
commence a review of this Article within two years of the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement and, thereafter, every three 
years or as agreed among the Parties to reduce or eliminate the 
requirements of this Article and the number of tariff lines and 
conditions provided in a Party’s Appendix to its Schedule in Annex 
I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments). 
 
8.  Notwithstanding paragraph 7, with respect to its Appendix to its 
Schedule in Annex I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments), a Party 
reserves the right to make amendments to its Appendix, including 
the additional requirement in this Appendix, in case of accession 
by another State or separate customs territory to this Agreement. 
Such amendments shall be subject to the agreement of all Parties 
and  shall  enter  into  force  in  accordance  with  Article  20.4 
(Amendments) and Article 20.9 (Accession). 
 
 
Article 2.7: Classification of Goods 
 
The  classification  of  goods  in  trade  among  the  Parties  shall  be  in 
conformity with the Harmonized System. 
 
 
Article 2.8: Customs Valuation 
 
For the purposes of determining the customs value of goods traded 
among  the  Parties,  Article  VII  of  GATT  1994,  and  Part  I  and  the 
Interpretative Notes of Annex I of the Customs Valuation Agreement 
shall apply, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 2.9: Goods in Transit 
 
Each Party shall continue to facilitate customs clearance of goods in 
transit from or to another Party in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 
V of GATT 1994 and the relevant provisions of the Trade Facilitation 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 2.10: Temporary Admission of Goods 
 
1.  Each Party shall allow, as provided for in its laws and regulations, 
goods  to  be  brought  into  its  customs  territory  conditionally 
2-6  
relieved, totally or partially, from payment of import duties and 
taxes, if such goods: 
 
(a)  are brought into its customs territory for a specific purpose; 
 
(b)  are intended for re-exportation within a specific period; and 
 
(c)  have  not  undergone  any  change,  except  normal 
depreciation and wastage due to the use made of them. 
 
2.  Each Party shall, on request of the person concerned and for 
reasons its customs authority considers valid, extend the time limit 
for duty-free temporary admission provided for in paragraph 1 
beyond the period initially fixed. 
 
3.  No Party shall condition the duty-free temporary admission of a 
good provided for in paragraph 1, other than to require that the 
good: 
 
(a)  be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a 
national or resident of another Party in the exercise of the 
business activity, trade, profession, or sport of that person; 
 
(b)  not be sold or leased while in its territory; 
 
(c)  be accompanied by a security or guarantee in an amount 
no  greater  than  the  customs  duties,  taxes,  fees,  and 
charges that would otherwise be owed on entry or final 
importation, releasable on exportation of the good; 
 
(d)  be capable of identification when imported and exported; 
 
(e)  be exported on the departure of the person referred to in 
subparagraph (a), or within such other period related to the 
purpose of the temporary admission as the Party may 
establish, unless extended; 
 
(f)  be admitted in no greater quantity than is reasonable for its 
intended use; and 
 
(g)  be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its 
laws and regulations. 
 
4.  If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 3 has not 
been fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other 
charge that would normally be owed on the good, in addition to 
2-7  
any  other  charges  or  penalties  provided  for  in  its  laws  and 
regulations. 
 
5.  Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this 
Article to be re-exported through a customs port6 other than that 
through which it was admitted. 
 
 
Article 2.11: Temporary Admission for Containers and Pallets 
 
1.  Each Party, as provided for in its laws and regulations, or the 
provisions of the related international agreements to which it is 
party, shall grant duty-free temporary admission for containers 
and pallets, regardless of their origin, in use or to be used in the 
shipment of goods in international traffic. 
 
(a)  For  the  purposes  of  this  Article,  “container”  means  an 
article of transport equipment (lift-van, movable tank, or 
other similar structure): 
 
(i)  fully  or  partially  enclosed  to  constitute  a 
compartment intended for containing goods; 
 
(ii)  of a permanent character and accordingly strong 
enough to be suitable for repeated use; 
 
(iii)  specially designed to facilitate the carriage of goods, 
by  one  or  more  modes  of  transport,  without 
intermediate reloading; 
 
(iv)  designed for ready handling, particularly when being 
transferred from one mode of transport to another; 
 
(v)  designed to be easy to fill and to empty; and 
 
(vi)  having an internal volume of one cubic metre or 
more. 
 
“Container” shall include the accessories and equipment of 
the container, appropriate for the type concerned, provided 
that such accessories and equipment are carried with the 
container.    “Container”  shall  not  include  vehicles, 
accessories or spare parts of vehicles, or packaging or 
 
6 For Lao PDR, “customs port” means an international customs port. 
2-8  
pallets.    “Demountable  bodies”  shall  be  regarded  as 
containers. 
 
(b)  For the purposes of this paragraph, “pallet” means a device 
on the deck of which a quantity of goods can be assembled 
to form a unit load for the purpose of transporting it, or of 
handling or stacking it with the assistance of mechanical 
appliances.  This device is made up of two decks separated 
by bearers, or of a single deck supported by feet; its overall 
height is reduced to the minimum compatible with handling 
by fork lift trucks or pallet trucks; it may or may not have a 
superstructure. 
 
2.  Subject  to  Chapter  8  (Trade  in  Services)  and  Chapter  10 
(Investment),  in  respect  of  containers  granted  temporary 
admission pursuant to paragraph 1:7 
 
(a)  each Party shall allow a container used in international 
traffic that enters its territory from the territory of another 
Party to exit its territory on any route that is reasonably 
related to the economic and prompt departure of such 
container;8 
 
(b)  no Party shall require any security or impose any penalty 
or charge solely by reason of any difference between the 
port of entry and the port of departure of a container; 
 
(c)  no Party shall condition the release of any security that it 
imposes  in  respect  of  the  entry  of  a  container  into  its 
territory on the container’s exit through any particular port 
of departure; and 
 
(d)  no Party shall require that the carrier bringing a container 
from the territory of another Party into its territory be the 
same carrier that takes the container to the territory of 
another Party. 
 
7 For greater certainty, nothing in this paragraph shall affect the right of a Party to adopt 
or maintain measures in accordance with Article 17.12 (General Exceptions) or Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions). 
 
8 For greater certainty, nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to prevent a 
Party from adopting or maintaining highway and railway safety or security measures of 
general application, or from preventing a container from entering or exiting its territory 
in a location where the Party does not maintain a customs port.  A Party may provide 
the other Parties with a list of ports available for exit of containers in accordance with 
its laws and regulations. 
2-9  
Article 2.12: Duty-Free Entry of Samples of No Commercial Value 
 
Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to samples of no commercial 
value, imported from the territory of another Party, subject to its laws and 
regulations, regardless of their origin. 
 
 
Article 2.13: Agricultural Export Subsidies 
 
1.  The Parties reaffirm their commitments made in the Ministerial 
Decision  of  19  December  2015  on  Export  Competition 
(WT/MIN(15)/45, WT/L/980), adopted in Nairobi on 19 December 
2015,  including  elimination  of  scheduled  export  subsidy 
entitlements for agricultural goods. 
 
2.  The Parties share the objective of the multilateral elimination of 
export subsidies for agricultural goods and shall work together to 
prevent their reintroduction in any form. 
 
 
Article 2.14: Transposition of Schedules of Tariff Commitments 
 
Each Party shall ensure that the transposition of its Schedule in Annex I 
(Schedules of Tariff Commitments), undertaken in order to implement 
Annex I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments) in the nomenclature of the 
revised HS following periodic amendments to the HS, is carried out 
without impairing the tariff commitments set out in Annex I (Schedules of 
Tariff Commitments). 
 
 
Article 2.15: Modification of Concessions 
 
In  exceptional  circumstances,  where  a  Party  faces  unforeseen 
difficulties in implementing its tariff commitments, that Party may, with 
the agreement of all other interested Parties, and with the decision of the 
RCEP Joint Committee, modify or withdraw a concession contained in 
its Schedule in Annex I (Schedules of Tariff Commitments).  In order to 
seek  to  reach  such  agreement,  the  Party  proposing  to  modify  or 
withdraw its concession shall inform the RCEP Joint Committee and 
engage in negotiations with any interested Parties.  In such negotiations, 
the Party proposing to modify or withdraw its concession shall maintain 
a level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions no less 
favourable to the trade of all other interested Parties than that provided 
for in this Agreement prior to such negotiations, which may include 
compensatory adjustments with respect to other goods.  The mutually 
agreed  outcome  of  the  negotiations,  including  any  compensatory 
2-10  
adjustments,  shall  be  reflected  in  Annex  I  (Schedules  of  Tariff 
Commitments) in accordance with Article 20.4 (Amendments). 
 
 
SECTION B 
NON-TARIFF MEASURES 
 
 
Article 2.16: Application of Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  A Party shall not adopt or maintain any non-tariff measure on the 
importation of any good of another Party or on the exportation of 
any good destined for the territory of another Party, except in 
accordance  with  its  rights  and  obligations  under  the  WTO 
Agreement or this Agreement. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  the  transparency  of  its  non-tariff 
measures permitted under paragraph 1 and shall ensure that any 
such measures are not prepared, adopted, or applied with the 
view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to 
trade among the Parties. 
 
 
Article 2.17: General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions 
 
1.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party shall 
adopt or maintain any prohibition or restriction other than duties, 
taxes, or other charges, whether made effective through quotas, 
import or export licences, or other measures, on the importation 
of any good of another Party or on the exportation of any good 
destined for the territory of another Party, except in accordance 
with its rights and obligations under the relevant provisions of the 
WTO  Agreement.    To  this  end,  Article  XI  of  GATT  1994  is 
incorporated  into  and  made  part  of  this  Agreement,  mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
2.  Where  a  Party  adopts  an  export  prohibition  or  restriction  in 
accordance with subparagraph 2(a) of Article XI of GATT 1994, 
that Party shall, upon request: 
 
(a)  inform  another  Party  or  Parties  of  such  prohibition  or 
restriction and its reasons together with its nature and 
expected duration, or publish such prohibition or restriction; 
and 
 
2-11  
(b)  provide another Party or Parties that may be seriously 
affected with a reasonable opportunity for consultation with 
respect to matters related to such prohibition or restriction. 
 
 
Article 2.18: Technical Consultations on Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  A Party may request technical consultations with another Party on 
a measure it considers to be adversely affecting its trade.  The 
request shall be in writing and shall clearly identify the measure 
and the concerns as to how the measure adversely affects trade 
between the Party requesting technical consultations (hereinafter 
referred to as “the requesting Party” in this Article) and the Party 
to which a request has been made (hereinafter referred to as “the 
requested Party” in this Article). 
 
2.  Where  the  measure  is  covered  by  another  Chapter,  any 
consultation mechanism provided in that Chapter shall be used, 
unless otherwise agreed between the requesting Party and the 
requested  Party  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as  “the 
consulting Parties” in this Article). 
 
3.  Except as provided in paragraph 2, the requested Party shall 
respond  to  the  requesting  Party  and  enter  into  technical 
consultations within 60 days of the receipt of the written request 
referred to in paragraph 1, unless otherwise determined by the 
consulting Parties, with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory 
solution within 180 days of the request.  Technical consultations 
may  be  conducted  via  any  means  mutually  agreed  by  the 
consulting Parties. 
 
4.  Except as provided in paragraph 2, the request for technical 
consultations shall be circulated to all the other Parties.  Other 
Parties may request to join the technical consultations on the 
basis of interests set out in their requests.  The participation of 
any other Party is subject to the consent of the consulting Parties.  
The  consulting  Parties  shall  give  full  consideration  to  such 
requests. 
 
5.  If the requesting Party considers that a matter is urgent or involves 
perishable goods, it may request that technical consultations take 
place within a shorter time frame than that provided for under 
paragraph 3. 
 
6.  Except as provided in paragraph 2, each Party shall submit an 
annual notification to the Committee on Goods regarding any use 
2-12  
of  technical  consultations  under  this  Article,  whether  as  the 
requesting Party or the requested Party.  This notification shall 
contain  a  summary  of  the  progress  and  outcomes  of  the 
consultations. 
 
7.  For greater certainty, technical consultations under this Article 
shall  be  without  prejudice  to  a  Party’s  rights  and  obligations 
pertaining to dispute settlement proceedings under Chapter 19 
(Dispute Settlement) and the WTO Agreement. 
 
 
Article 2.19: Import Licensing Procedures 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that all automatic and non-automatic 
import licensing procedures are implemented in a transparent and 
predictable manner, and applied in accordance with the Import 
Licensing  Agreement.    No  Party  shall  adopt  or  maintain  a 
measure that is inconsistent with the Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall, promptly after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement for that Party, notify the other Parties of its existing 
import licensing procedures.  The notification shall include the 
information specified in paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the Import 
Licensing  Agreement.    A  Party  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 
compliance with this paragraph if: 
 
(a)  it has notified the procedures to the WTO Committee on 
Import Licensing provided for in Article 4 of the Import 
Licensing  Agreement  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “WTO 
Committee on Import Licensing” in this Chapter), together 
with the information specified in paragraph 2 of Article 5 of 
the Import Licensing Agreement; and 
 
(b)  in the most recent annual submission due before the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party to the 
WTO Committee on Import Licensing in response to the 
annual  questionnaire  on  import  licensing  procedures 
described  in  paragraph  3  of  Article  7  of  the  Import 
Licensing Agreement, it has provided, with respect to those 
existing  import  licensing  procedures,  the  information 
requested in that questionnaire. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  notify  the  other  Parties  of  any  new  import 
licensing procedure and any modification it makes to its existing 
import licensing procedures, to the extent possible 30 days before 
the new procedure or modification takes effect.  In no case shall 
2-13  
a Party provide the notification later than 60 days after the date of 
its publication.  A notification provided under this paragraph shall 
include  the  information  specified  in  Article  5  of  the  Import 
Licensing  Agreement.    A  Party  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 
compliance with this paragraph if it notifies a new import licensing 
procedure  or  a  modification  to  an  existing  import  licensing 
procedure  to  the  WTO  Committee  on  Import  Licensing  in 
accordance with paragraph 1, 2, or 3 of Article 5 of the Import 
Licensing Agreement. 
 
4.  Before applying any new or modified import licensing procedure, 
a Party shall publish the new procedure or modification on an 
official government website.  To the extent possible, the Party 
shall  do  so  at  least  21  days  before  the  new  procedure  or 
modification takes effect. 
 
5.  The notification required under paragraphs 2 and 3 is without 
prejudice to whether the import licensing procedure is consistent 
with this Agreement. 
 
6.  A notification made under paragraph 3 shall state if, under any 
procedure that is a subject of the notification: 
 
(a)  the terms of an import licence for any product limit the 
permissible end users of the product; or 
 
(b)  the  Party  imposes  any  of  the  following  conditions  on 
eligibility for obtaining a licence to import any product: 
 
(i)  membership in an industry association; 
 
(ii)  approval by an industry association of the request 
for an import licence; 
 
(iii)  a  history  of  importing  the  product,  or  similar 
products; 
 
(iv)  minimum importer or end user production capacity; 
 
(v)  minimum importer or end user registered capital; or 
 
(vi)  a  contractual  or  other  relationship  between  the 
importer and distributor in the Party’s territory. 
 
7.  Each Party shall, to the extent possible, answer within 60 days all 
reasonable enquiries from another Party regarding the criteria 
2-14  
employed by its respective licensing authorities in granting or 
denying  import  licences.    The  importing  Party  shall  publish 
sufficient information for the other Parties and traders to know the 
basis for granting or allocating import licences. 
 
8.  No application for an import licence shall be refused for minor 
documentation errors that do not alter the basic data contained 
therein.    Minor  documentation  errors  may  include  formatting 
errors, such as the width of a margin or the font used, and spelling 
errors which are obviously made without fraudulent intent or gross 
negligence. 
 
9.  If a Party denies an import licence application with respect to a 
good of another Party, it shall, on request of the applicant and 
within a reasonable period after receiving the request, provide the 
applicant with an explanation of the reason for the denial. 
 
 
Article 2.20: Fees and Formalities Connected with Importation and 
Exportation 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 
VIII  of  GATT  1994,  that  all  fees  and  charges  of  whatever 
character (other than import or export duties, charges equivalent 
to an internal tax or other internal charge applied consistently with 
paragraph 2 of Article III of GATT 1994, and anti-dumping and 
countervailing  duties)  imposed  on  or  in  connection  with 
importation  or  exportation  are  limited  in  amount  to  the 
approximate cost of services rendered and do not represent an 
indirect protection to domestic goods or a taxation of imports or 
exports for fiscal purposes. 
 
2.  Each Party shall promptly publish details of the fees and charges 
that it imposes in connection with importation or exportation and 
shall make such information available on the internet. 
 
3.  No Party shall require consular transactions, including related 
fees and charges, in connection with the importation of a good of 
another  Party.    No  Party  shall  require  that  any  customs 
documentation supplied in connection with the importation of any 
good of another Party be endorsed, certified, or otherwise sighted 
or approved by the importing Party’s overseas representatives, or 
entities with authority to act on the importing Party’s behalf, nor 
impose any related fees or charges. 
 
 
2-15  
Article 2.21: Sectoral Initiatives 
 
1.  The Parties may decide to initiate a work programme on sector-
specific issues.  Should the Parties decide to initiate such a work 
programme,  it  shall  be  established  and  overseen  by  the 
Committee on Goods.  The Parties shall endeavour to finalise 
such a work programme no later than two years after the initiation 
of the work programme. 
 
2.  The Parties shall agree on the sectors to be included in such a 
work programme, taking into consideration the interests of all the 
Parties, including those sectors proposed by Parties during the 
course of the negotiation of this Agreement or other sectors as 
may be identified by a Party. 
 
3.  Any  work  programme  initiated  under  this  Article  should  be 
conducted to: 
 
(a)  enhance the Parties’ understanding of the issue; 
 
(b)  facilitate  input  from  business  and  other  relevant 
stakeholders; and 
 
(c)  explore  the  possible  actions  by  the  Parties  that  would 
facilitate trade. 
 
4.  Based on the outcome of any work programme initiated under this 
Article, the Committee on Goods may make recommendations to 
the RCEP Joint Committee. 
 
 
2-16 