   
   
   
 
CHAPTER 3   
 
   
  TRADE IN GOODS 
 
 
 
Article 3.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
advertising films and recordings means recorded audio/visual (film, tape, or 
disc), or audio (tape or disc) media designed to advertise or promote goods or 
services by any company, firm or person, having an established business or 
resident in the territory of a Party, excluding such media for general public  
exhibition; 
 
agricultural goods means those goods referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement 
on Agriculture, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
commercial samples of negligible value means commerical samples having a 
value, individually or in the aggregate as shipped, of not more than one US dollar,  
or the equivalent amount in the currency of a Party, or so marked, torn, perforated 
or otherwise treated that they are unsuitable for sale or for use except as comercial 
samples; 
 
consular transactions means requirements  that goods of a Party intended for 
export to the territory of the other Party must first be submitted to the supervision of 
the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the exporting Party for the 
purpose of obtaining consular invoices or consular visas for commercial invoices, 
certificates of origin, manifests, shippers’ export declarations or any other customs 
documentation required on or in connection with importation; 
 
duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
export subsidies shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Article 1(e) of 
the Agreement on Agriculture, which is part of the WTO Agreement, including any  
amendment of that article; 
 
goods admitted for sports purposes means articles and equipment for use in 
sports contests, demonstrations or training in the territory of the Party into whose 
territory such goods are imported; 
 
goods intended for display or demonstration includes instruments, apparatus 
and models designed for demonstrational purposes, unsuitable for other purposes, 
and classified in Harmonized System Tariff heading 90.23; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-1  
 
 
printed advertising materials means those goods classified in Chapter 49 of the 
Harmonized System, including brochures, pamphlets, leaflets, trade catalogues,  
yearbooks published by trade associations, tourist promotional materials and 
posters, that are used to promote, publicise or advertise a good or serviced, are 
essentially intended to advertise a good or services, and are supplied free of  
charge. 
 
 
Article 3.2: Scope   
 
Except as otherwise provided, this Chapter applies to trade in all goods  
between any of the Parties.   
 
 
Article 3.3: National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Parties  
in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994.  To this end, the provisions of Article III 
of GATT 1994 are incorporated into and shall form part of this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
 
Article 3.4: Elimination of Customs Duties   
   
1.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party may increase any  
existing customs duty, or adopt any customs duty, on an originating good. 
   
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and subject to a Party’s  
Schedule as set out in Annex I, as at the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
each Party shall eliminate all customs duties on originating goods of another Party.   
   
3.  On the request of any Party, the Parties shall consult to consider  
accelerating the elimination of customs duties set out in their Schedules.  An 
agreement between two or more of the Parties to accelerate the elimination of a 
customs duty on a good shall supersede any duty rate or staging category  
determined pursuant to their Schedules for such good when approved by each 
Party in accordance with Article 17.2 (Functions of the Commission).  Any such 
acceleration shall be extended to all Parties.   
 
 
Article 3.5: Goods Re-entered after Repair and Alteration 
   
1.  The Parties may not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin,  
that re-enters its territory after that good has been temporarily exported from its 
territory to the territory of another Party for repair or alteration, regardless of 
whether such repair or alteration could be performed in its own territory. 
 
 
 
 
3-2    
   
   
2.  The Parties may not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin,  
admitted temporarily from the territory of another Party for repair or alteration. 
   
3.  For the purposes of this Article, repair and alteration does not include an 
operation or process that: 
 
(a)  destroys a good's essential characteristics or creates a new or  
commercially different good; or   
 
(b)  transforms an unfinished good into a finished good. 
 
 
Article 3.6: Duty-Free Entry of Commercial Samples of Negligible Value and 
Printed Advertising Material 
 
With the exception of liquor and tobacco products, the Parties shall grant  
customs duty-free entry to commercial samples of negligible value and to printed  
advertising materials imported from the territory of another Party, regardless of  
their origin, but may require that: 
 
(a)  such samples be imported solely for the solicitation of orders for goods, 
or services provided from the territory, of another Party or a non-Party; 
or 
 
(b)  such advertising materials are imported in packets that each contain no 
more than one copy of each material and that neither such materials nor  
packets form part of a larger consignment.   
 
 
Article 3.7: Temporary Admission of Goods 
   
1.  With the exception of liquor and tobacco products each Party shall grant 
customs duty-free temporary admission for: 
 
(a)   professional equipment, including equipment for the press or television,  
software and broadcasting and cinematographic equipment, necessary  
for carrying out the business activity, trade or profession of a business  
person; 
 
(b)   goods intended for display or demonstration; 
 
(c)   commercial samples and advertising films and recordings; and 
 
(d)   goods admitted for sports purposes, including racing or others similar  
events, regardless of their origin.  
 
 
 
 
3-3  
 
 
2.    Each Party shall, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons  
deemed valid by its customs authority, extend the time limit for temporary 
admission beyond the period initially fixed, provided that the period of extension, 
having regard to the particular goods and circumstances of each case, is  
reasonable and the period of extension is no greater than the period initially fixed.   
 
3.    No Party may condition the duty-free temporary admission of goods referred 
to in Paragraph 1, other than to require that such goods: 
 
(a)   be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national or  
resident of another Party in the exercise of the business activity, trade, 
profession, or sport of that person; 
 
(b)   not be sold or leased or disposed of or transferred while in its territory; 
 
(c)   be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the charges  
that would otherwise be owed on entry or final importation, releasable 
on exportation of the good; 
 
(d)   be capable of identification when imported and exported; 
 
(e)   be exported on the departure of the person referenced in Subparagraph 
(a), or within such other period, related to the purpose of the temporary 
admission, as the Party may establish; 
 
(f)   be admitted in no greater quantity than is reasonable for their intended 
use; and 
 
(g)   be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws. 
 
4.    If any condition that a Party imposes under Paragraph 3 has not been 
fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would  
normally be owed on the good plus any other charges or penalties provided for 
under its domestic law. 
 
5.    Each Party, through its customs authority, shall adopt procedures providing 
for the expeditious release of goods admitted under this Article.  To the extent  
possible, such procedures shall provide that when such a good accompanies a 
national or resident of another Party who is seeking temporary entry, the good shall 
be released simultaneously with the entry of that national or resident. 
 
 
6.    Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article to be 
exported through a customs authorised point of departure other than that through 
which it was admitted. 
 
 
 
 
3-4  
 
 
7.    Subject to Chapter 12 (Trade in Services): 
 
(a)   each Party shall allow a vehicle or container used in international traffic 
that enters its territory from the territory of another Party to exit its 
territory on any route that is reasonably related to the economic and  
prompt departure of such vehicle or container;   
 
(b)   no Party may require any bond or impose any penalty or charge solely  
by reason of any difference between the customs authorised point of  
entry and the customs authorised point of departure of a vehicle or  
container; 
 
(c)   no Party may condition the release of any obligation, including any 
bond, that it imposes in respect of the entry of a vehicle or container into  
its territory on its exit through any particular customs authorised point of  
departure; and 
 
(d)   no Party may require that the vehicle or carrier bringing a container from 
the territory of another Party into its territory be the same vehicle or  
carrier that takes such container back to the territory of that other Party. 
 
 
Article 3.8: Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.    No Party shall adopt or maintain any non-tariff measures on the importation 
of any good of another Party or on the exportation of any good destined for the 
territory of another Party except in accordance with its rights and obligations under  
the WTO Agreement or in accordance with other provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2.    Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the measures set out in Annex 3.A. 
 
 
Article 3.9: Administrative Fees and Formalities 
   
1.  The Parties agree that fees, charges, formalities and requirements imposed 
in connection with the importation and exportation of goods shall be consistent with 
their obligations under GATT 1994. 
   
2.  No Party may require consular transactions, including related fees and 
charges, in connection with the importation of any good of the other Parties.   
   
3.  Each Party shall make available through the Internet or a comparable 
computer-based telecommunications network a current list of the fees and charges 
it imposes in connection with importation or exportation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-5  
 
 
Article 3.10: Export Duties 
 
No Party may adopt or maintain any duty, tax, or other charge on the export 
of any good to the territory of the other Parties, unless such duty, tax, or charge is  
adopted or maintained on any such good when destined for domestic 
consumption.1  
 
 
Article 3.11: Agricultural Export Subsidies 
   
1.  The Parties share the objective of the multilateral elimination of all forms of  
export subsidies for agricultural goods and shall cooperate in an effort to achieve 
such an agreement and prevent their reintroduction in any form.   
   
2.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Parties agree to 
eliminate, as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement, all forms of export  
subsidy for agricultural goods destined for the other Parties, and to prevent the 
reintroduction of such subsidies in any form. 
 
 
Article 3.12: Price Band System 
   
1.  Chile may maintain its Price Band System as established in Article 12 of  
Law 18.525 and its subsequent legal modifications or succeeding system, for the 
products covered by that law.2  
   
2  With respect to the products referred to in Paragraph 1, Chile shall give to 
the other Parties a treatment not less favourable than the preferential tariff 
treatment given to any third country, including countries with which Chile has  
concluded or will conclude in the future an agreement notified under Article XXIV of 
GATT 1994.   
 
 
Article 3.13: Special Agricultural Safeguard Measures 
   
1.  Chile may apply a special safeguard measure to a limited number of 
specified sensitive agricultural goods listed in Annex 3.B.   
   
2.  Chile shall endeavour to apply special safeguard measures in a manner that  
is consistent with its commitments under this Agreement to liberalise and promote 
the expansion of trade in these goods among the Parties.   
 
 
 
For greater certainty, this Article shall not apply to fees, charges, formalities and requirements on 
1 
the exportation of goods imposed consistent with the provisions of Article VIII of GATT 1994. 
 The only products covered by the Price Band System are HS 1001.9000, 1101.0000, 1701.1100,  
2
1701.1200, 1701.9100, 1701.9910, 1701.9920 and 1701.9990. 
 
 
3-6    
   
   
3  Chile may impose a special safeguard measure on a good only during the 
period, following the grace period specified in Chile’s Schedule as set out in Annex 
I, in which tariffs are being eliminated.  Chile may not impose a special safeguard 
measure on a good after that good achieves duty-free status under this  
Agreement.   
   
4.  Notwithstanding Article 3.4, Chile may impose a special safeguard measure 
in the form of additional import duties as set out below on those goods listed in 
Annex 3.B.  The sum of any such additional duty and any import duties or other  
charges applied pursuant to Article 3.4 shall not exceed the lesser of: 
 
(a)  the prevailing most-favoured-nation applied rate; or 
 
(b)  the base rate. 
   
5.  Chile may impose a special safeguard measure if the quantity of imports of 
the good during any semester exceeds the quantity trigger level, corresponding to  
that specific semester, for those goods listed in Annex 3.B.   
   
6.  Chile may maintain a special safeguard measure, under Paragraph 5, only  
until the end of the semester in which Chile applies the measure. 
   
7  Supplies of the good in question which were  en route on the basis of a 
contract settled before the additional customs duty is imposed under the terms of 
this Article shall be exempted from any such additional customs duty, provided that 
they may be counted in the volume of imports of the good in question during the 
following semester for the purposes of triggering the provisions of Paragraph 5 in  
that semester. 
   
8.  Chile may not apply, with respect to the same good, a special safeguard 
measure and at the same time apply or maintain a measure under Article XIX of 
GATT 1994 and the Safeguards Agreement. 
   
9.  Chile shall apply any special safeguard measure in a transparent manner.   
Chile shall ensure that the current volume of imports is published in a manner  
which is readily accessible to the other Parties, and shall give notice in writing,  
including relevant data, to the other Parties as far in advance as may be 
practicable and in any event within 10 working days of the implementation of such 
action.  If Chile decides not to apply a special safeguard measure where the 
specified trigger volume has been or is about to be met, it shall notify the other 
Parties promptly of its decision. 
 
10.   Upon request of a Party, Chile shall consult promptly and cooperate in 
exchanging information, as appropriate, with respect to the conditions for applying 
a special safeguard measure. 
 
 
 
 
3-7  
 
 
11.  The Committee on Trade in Goods may review the implementation and  
operation of this Article. 
 
12.  For purposes of this Article, special safeguard measure means a special 
safeguard measure described in Paragraph 4 and  base rate means the rate of 
customs duty for an imported good as indicated in the Schedule of the importing 
Party as set out in Annex I.   
 
 
Article 3.14: Committee on Trade in Goods 
   
1.  The Parties may establish a Committee on Trade in Goods that may meet 
on the request of any Party or the Commission to consider any matter arising 
under this Chapter and Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin).   
   
2.  The Committee’s functions shall include: 
 
(a)  reviewing the implementation of the Chapters referred to above; and   
 
(b)  identification and recommendation of measures to promote and facilitate  
improved market access, including addressing barriers to trade in goods  
among the Parties, and to accelerate the tariff elimination under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-8  
 
 
Annex 3.A 
 
Import and Export Measures 
 
 
Measures of Chile 
 
 
Article 3.8 shall not apply to measures of Chile relating to imports of used  
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-9  
 
 
Annex 3.B 
 
Special Safeguard Measures 
 
For purposes of Article 3.13, goods originating in Brunei Darussalam, 
New Zealand or Singapore that may be subject to a special safeguard measure 
and the trigger levels for each such good are set out below: 
 
 
 
List of Chile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-11    
   
   
 
Basket 1 : 112.2 tons   
 
  Basket 2 :  5.4 tons 
 
Basket 3 : 27.6 tons 
 
  Basket 4 :  2.4 tons 
  Basket 5 :  0.6 tons 
 
Basket 6 : 156 tons 
 
  Basket 7 : 240 tons 
  Basket 8 :  3.6 tons 
 
Basket 9 :  87 tons 
 
 
 
Notes:   
 
•  The quantities set out above for baskets correspond to each semester.  The 
semesters run from January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31 for  
each year.   
 
•  Each basket will have an annual growth rate of 8 percent which will be  
calculated at the end of each calendar year.   
 
•  In the first calendar year following entry into force of the Agreement, the 
8 percent annual growth rate will apply to that calendar year and each  
calendar year thereafter.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-12 