 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRANS-PACIFIC 
 
 
STRATEGIC ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP  
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
 
 
 
 
  
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Republic of Chile, New Zealand and 
the Republic of Singapore, (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Parties” or 
individually as a “Party”, unless the context otherwise requires), resolve to: 
 
STRENGTHEN the special links of friendship and cooperation among them;  
 
ENLARGE the framework of relations among the Parties through liberalising 
trade  and  investment  and  encouraging  further  and  deeper  cooperation  to 
create a strategic partnership within the Asia - Pacific region; 
 
CONTRIBUTE to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade 
and provide a catalyst for broader cooperation at international forums;  
 
CREATE an expanded and secure market for the goods and services in their 
territories;  
 
AVOID distortions in their reciprocal trade; 
 
ESTABLISH clear rules governing their trade; 
 
ENSURE  a  predictable  commercial  framework  for  business  planning  and 
investment; 
 
BUILD  on  their  respective  rights  and  obligations  under  the  Marrakesh 
Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization and other multilateral 
and bilateral agreements and arrangements; 
 
AFFIRM  their  commitment  to  the  Asia  –  Pacific  Economic  Cooperation 
(APEC) goals and principles; 
 
REAFFIRM their commitment to the APEC Principles to Enhance Competition 
and  Regulatory  Reform  with  a  view  to  protecting  and  promoting  the 
competitive process and the design of regulation that minimises distortions to 
competition; 
 
BE  MINDFUL  that  economic  development,  social  development  and 
environmental  protection  are  interdependent  and  mutually  reinforcing 
components  of  sustainable  development  and  that  closer  economic 
partnership can play an important role in promoting sustainable development; 
 
ENHANCE the competitiveness of their firms in global markets; 
 
FOSTER creativity and innovation, and promote the protection intellectual 
property rights to encourage trade in goods and services among the Parties; 
1  
 
 
STRENGTHEN their strategic economic partnership to bring economic and 
social benefits, to create new opportunities for employment and to improve 
the living standards of their peoples;  
 
UPHOLD the rights of their governments to regulate in order to meet national 
policy objectives; 
 
PRESERVE their flexibility to safeguard the public welfare; 
 
ENHANCE their cooperation on labour and environmental matters of mutual 
interest;  
 
PROMOTE common frameworks within the Asia – Pacific region, and affirm 
their commitment to encourage the accession to this Agreement by other 
economies;  
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
2  
CHAPTER 1  
 
INITIAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 1.1: Objectives 
 
1.    This Agreement establishes a Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership 
among  the  Parties,  based  on  common  interest  and  on  the  deepening  of  the 
relationship in all areas of application. 
 
2.  This Agreement covers in particular the commercial, economic, financial, 
scientific, technological and cooperation fields.  It may be extended to other areas 
to be agreed upon by the Parties in order to expand and enhance the benefits of 
this Agreement. 
 
3.  The  Parties  seek  to  support  the  wider  liberalisation  process  in  APEC 
consistent with its goals of free and open trade and investment. 
 
4.  The  trade  objectives  of  this  Agreement,  as  elaborated  more  specifically 
through its principles and rules, including national treatment, most-favoured- nation 
treatment and transparency, are to: 
 
(a)   encourage expansion and diversification of trade among each Party’s 
territory; 
 
(b)   eliminate barriers to trade in, and facilitate the cross-border movement 
of, goods and services among the territories of the Parties; 
 
(c)   promote conditions of fair competition in the free trade area; 
 
(d)   substantially  increase  investment  opportunities  among  each  Party’s 
territory; 
 
(e)   provide  adequate  and  effective  protection  and  enforcement  of 
intellectual property rights in each Party's territory; and 
 
(f)   create an effective mechanism to prevent and resolve trade disputes.  
 
 
Article 1.2: Establishment of the Free Trade Area 
 
The Parties to this Agreement, consistent with Article XXIV of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 and Article V of the General Agreement on 
Trade in Services, which are part of the WTO Agreement, hereby establish a free 
trade area. 
1-1  
CHAPTER 2  
 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS  
  
 
Article 2.1: Definitions of General Application  
 
  For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified: 
 
Agreement means the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement; 
 
APEC means the Asia - Pacific Economic Cooperation; 
 
Commission  means  the  Trans-Pacific  Strategic  Economic  Partnership 
Commission  established  under  Article  17.1  (Establishment  of  the  Strategic 
Economic Partnership Commission); 
 
customs administration means the competent authority that is responsible under 
the laws of a Party for the administration of customs laws, regulations and policies, 
and  
 
(a)  in  relation  to  Brunei  Darussalam  means  the  Royal  Customs  and 
  Excise Department; 
 
(b)  in relation to Chile means the National Customs Service of Chile; 
  
(c)  in relation to New Zealand means the New Zealand Customs    
  Service; and 
 
(d)  in relation to Singapore means the Singapore Customs; 
 
customs duty includes any duty or charges of any kind imposed in connection 
with  the  importation  of  a  good,  and  any  surtaxes  or  surcharges  imposed  in 
connection with such importation, but does not include: 
 
(a)  charges equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with GATT 
1994, including excise duties and goods and services tax; 
 
(b)  fees or other charges that 
 
(i)  are limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered, 
and 
 
(ii)  do not represent a direct or indirect protection for domestic goods 
or a taxation of imports for fiscal purposes; and 
   
2-1  
(c)  any anti-dumping or countervailing duty applied consistently with the 
provisions  of  Article  VI  of  GATT  1994,  the  WTO  Agreement  on  the 
Implementation of Article VI of GATT 1994, and the WTO Agreement on 
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures; 
 
Customs  Valuation  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on  Implementation  of 
Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, which is part of the 
WTO Agreement; 
 
days means calendar days; 
 
enterprise means any corporation, company, association, partnership, trust, joint 
venture,  sole-proprietorship  or  other  entity  constituted  or  organised  under 
applicable law,  regardless of whether or not the entity is organised for profit, 
privately or otherwise owned, or organised with limited or unlimited liability; 
 
enterprise of a Party means an enterprise constituted or organised under the law 
of a Party; 
 
existing means in effect on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for a 
Party; 
 
GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in Services, which is part of the 
WTO Agreement; 
 
GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, which is 
part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
goods of a Party means domestic products as these are understood in GATT 
1994 or such goods as the Parties may agree and includes originating goods of a 
Party;  
 
goods and products shall be understood to have the same meaning unless the 
context otherwise requires; 
 
Harmonized System (HS) means the Harmonized Commodity Description and 
Coding System administered by the World Customs Organisation, including its 
General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes and Chapter Notes, as adopted and 
implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws; 
 
heading means the first four digits in the tariff classification under the Harmonized 
System; 
 
measure includes any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or practice; 
 
2-2  
national means a natural person who has the nationality of a Party according to 
Annex 2.A or a permanent resident of a Party; 
 
originating  means qualifying under the rules of origin set out in Chapter 4 (Rules 
of Origin); 
 
person means a natural person or an enterprise; 
 
person of a Party means a national or an enterprise of a Party; 
 
producer means a person who grows, raises, mines, harvests, fishes, captures, 
gathers, collects, breeds, extracts, hunts, manufactures, processes, assembles or 
disassembles a good; 
 
preferential  tariff  treatment  means  the  customs  duty  rate  applicable  to  an 
originating good, pursuant to the Parties' respective Tariff Elimination Schedules 
set out in Annex I; 
 
Safeguards Agreement means the Agreement on Safeguards, which is part of the 
WTO Agreement; 
 
subheading  means  the  first  six  digits  in  the  tariff  classification  under  the 
Harmonised System; 
 
territory means for a Party the territory of that Party as set out in Annex 2.A; 
 
WTO means the World Trade Organisation;  
 
WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade 
Organization, done on April 15, 1994. 
 
 
2-3  
 
Annex 2.A 
 
Country-Specific Definitions 
 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified:  
 
natural person who has the nationality of a Party means:  
 
(a)  with respect to Brunei Darussalam, a subject of His Majesty the Sultan 
and Yang Di-Pertuan in accordance with the Laws of Brunei; 
 
(b)  with  respect  to  Chile,  a  Chilean  as  defined  in  Article  10  of  the 
Constitución Política de la República de Chile;  
 
(c)  with respect to New Zealand, a citizen as defined in the Citizenship Act 
1977, as amended from time to time, or any successor legislation; and  
 
(d)  with  respect  to  Singapore,  any  person  who  is  a  citizen  within  the 
meaning of its Constitution and domestic laws. 
 
territory means: 
 
(a)  with respect to Brunei Darussalam, the territory of Brunei Darussalam 
and the maritime areas adjacent to the coast of Brunei Darussalam to 
the extent to which Brunei Darussalam may exercise sovereign rights or 
jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its legislation; 
 
(b)  with  respect  to  Chile,  the  land,  maritime,  and  air  space  under  its 
sovereignty, and the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf 
within which it exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance 
with international law and its domestic law;  
 
(b)  with  respect  to  New  Zealand,  the  territory  of  New  Zealand  and  the 
exclusive economic zone, seabed and subsoil over which it exercises 
sovereign rights with respect to natural resources in accordance with 
international law, but does not include Tokelau; and 
 
(c)  with respect to Singapore, its land territory, internal waters and territorial 
sea as well as and any maritime area situated beyond the territorial sea 
which has been or might in future be designated under its domestic law, 
in accordance with international law, as an area within which Singapore 
may  exercise  sovereign  rights  or  jurisdiction  with  regard  to  the  sea, 
seabed, the subsoil and the natural resources. 
2-4  
CHAPTER 3  
 
TRADE IN GOODS 
 
 
Article 3.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
advertising films and recordings means recorded audio/visual (film, tape, or 
disc), or audio (tape or disc) media designed to advertise or promote goods or 
services  by  any  company,  firm  or  person,  having  an  established  business  or 
resident  in  the  territory  of  a  Party,  excluding  such  media  for  general  public 
exhibition; 
 
agricultural goods means those goods referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement 
on Agriculture, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
commercial samples of negligible value means commerical samples having a 
value, individually or in the aggregate as shipped, of not more than one US dollar, 
or the equivalent amount in the currency of a Party, or so marked, torn, perforated 
or otherwise treated that they are unsuitable for sale or for use except as comercial 
samples; 
 
consular transactions means requirements  that goods of a Party intended for 
export to the territory of the other Party must first be submitted to the supervision of 
the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the exporting Party for the 
purpose of obtaining consular invoices or consular visas for commercial invoices, 
certificates of origin, manifests, shippers’ export declarations or any other customs 
documentation required on or in connection with importation; 
 
duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
export subsidies shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Article 1(e) of 
the Agreement on Agriculture, which is part of the WTO Agreement, including any 
amendment of that article; 
 
goods admitted for sports purposes means articles and equipment for use in 
sports contests, demonstrations or training in the territory of the Party into whose 
territory such goods are imported; 
 
goods intended for display or demonstration includes instruments, apparatus 
and models designed for demonstrational purposes, unsuitable for other purposes, 
and classified in Harmonized System Tariff heading 90.23; 
 
 
3-1  
printed advertising materials means those goods classified in Chapter 49 of the 
Harmonized System, including brochures, pamphlets, leaflets, trade catalogues, 
yearbooks  published  by  trade  associations,  tourist  promotional  materials  and 
posters, that are used to promote, publicise or advertise a good or serviced, are 
essentially  intended  to  advertise  a  good  or  services,  and  are  supplied  free  of 
charge. 
 
 
Article 3.2: Scope  
 
Except as otherwise provided, this Chapter applies to trade in all goods 
between any of the Parties.  
 
 
Article 3.3: National Treatment 
 
  Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Parties 
in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994.  To this end, the provisions of Article III 
of GATT 1994 are incorporated into and shall form part of this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
 
Article 3.4: Elimination of Customs Duties  
 
1.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party may increase any 
existing customs duty, or adopt any customs duty, on an originating good. 
 
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and subject to a Party’s 
Schedule as set out in Annex I, as at the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
each Party shall eliminate all customs duties on originating goods of another Party.  
 
3.  On  the  request  of  any  Party,  the  Parties  shall  consult  to  consider 
accelerating  the  elimination  of  customs  duties  set  out  in  their  Schedules.    An 
agreement between two or more of the Parties to accelerate the elimination of a 
customs  duty  on  a  good  shall  supersede  any  duty  rate  or  staging  category 
determined pursuant to their Schedules for such good when approved by each 
Party in accordance with Article 17.2 (Functions of the Commission).  Any such 
acceleration shall be extended to all Parties.  
  
Article 3.5: Goods Re-entered after Repair and Alteration 
 
1.  The Parties may not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, 
that re-enters its territory after that good has been temporarily exported from its 
territory  to  the  territory  of  another  Party  for  repair  or  alteration,  regardless  of 
whether such repair or alteration could be performed in its own territory. 
 
3-2  
2.  The Parties may not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, 
admitted temporarily from the territory of another Party for repair or alteration. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Article, repair and alteration does not include an 
operation or process that: 
 
(a)  destroys  a  good's  essential  characteristics  or  creates  a  new  or 
commercially different good; or  
 
(b)  transforms an unfinished good into a finished good. 
 
 
Article 3.6: Duty-Free Entry of Commercial Samples of Negligible Value and 
Printed Advertising Material 
 
With the exception of liquor and tobacco products, the Parties shall grant 
customs duty-free entry to commercial samples of negligible value and to printed 
advertising materials imported from the territory of another Party, regardless of 
their origin, but may require that: 
 
(a)  such samples be imported solely for the solicitation of orders for goods, 
or services provided from the territory, of another Party or a non-Party; 
or 
 
(b)  such advertising materials are imported in packets that each contain no 
more than one copy of each material and that neither such materials nor 
packets form part of a larger consignment.  
 
 
Article 3.7: Temporary Admission of Goods 
 
1.  With the exception of liquor and tobacco products each Party shall grant 
customs duty-free temporary admission for: 
 
(a)   professional equipment, including equipment for the press or television, 
software and broadcasting and cinematographic equipment, necessary 
for carrying out the business activity, trade or profession of a business 
person; 
 
(b)   goods intended for display or demonstration; 
 
(c)   commercial samples and advertising films and recordings; and 
 
(d)   goods admitted for sports purposes, including racing or others similar 
events, regardless of their origin. 
 
3-3  
2.   Each Party shall, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons 
deemed  valid  by  its  customs  authority,  extend  the  time  limit  for  temporary 
admission beyond the period initially fixed, provided that the period of extension, 
having  regard  to  the  particular  goods  and  circumstances  of  each  case,  is 
reasonable and the period of extension is no greater than the period initially fixed.  
 
3.   No Party may condition the duty-free temporary admission of goods referred 
to in Paragraph 1, other than to require that such goods: 
 
(a)   be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national or 
resident of another Party in the exercise of the business activity, trade, 
profession, or sport of that person; 
 
(b)   not be sold or leased or disposed of or transferred while in its territory; 
 
(c)   be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the charges 
that would otherwise be owed on entry or final importation, releasable 
on exportation of the good; 
 
(d)   be capable of identification when imported and exported; 
 
(e)   be exported on the departure of the person referenced in Subparagraph 
(a), or within such other period, related to the purpose of the temporary 
admission, as the Party may establish; 
 
(f)   be admitted in no greater quantity than is reasonable for their intended 
use; and 
 
(g)   be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws. 
 
4.   If  any  condition  that  a  Party  imposes  under  Paragraph  3  has  not  been 
fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would 
normally be owed on the good plus any other charges or penalties provided for 
under its domestic law. 
 
5.   Each Party, through its customs authority, shall adopt procedures providing 
for the expeditious release of goods admitted under this Article.  To the extent 
possible, such procedures shall provide that when such a good accompanies a 
national or resident of another Party who is seeking temporary entry, the good shall 
be released simultaneously with the entry of that national or resident. 
 
 
6.   Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article to be 
exported through a customs authorised point of departure other than that through 
which it was admitted. 
 
3-4  
7.   Subject to Chapter 12 (Trade in Services): 
 
(a)   each Party shall allow a vehicle or container used in international traffic 
that  enters  its  territory  from  the  territory  of  another  Party  to  exit  its 
territory on any route that is reasonably related to the economic and 
prompt departure of such vehicle or container;  
 
(b)   no Party may require any bond or impose any penalty or charge solely 
by reason of any difference between the customs authorised point of 
entry and the customs authorised point of departure of a vehicle or 
container; 
 
(c)   no  Party  may  condition  the  release  of  any  obligation,  including  any 
bond, that it imposes in respect of the entry of a vehicle or container into 
its territory on its exit through any particular customs authorised point of 
departure; and 
 
(d)   no Party may require that the vehicle or carrier bringing a container from 
the territory of another Party into its territory be the same vehicle or 
carrier that takes such container back to the territory of that other Party. 
  
 
Article 3.8: Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.   No Party shall adopt or maintain any non-tariff measures on the importation 
of any good of another Party or on the exportation of any good destined for the 
territory of another Party except in accordance with its rights and obligations under 
the WTO Agreement or in accordance with other provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2.    Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the measures set out in Annex 3.A. 
 
 
Article 3.9: Administrative Fees and Formalities 
 
1.  The Parties agree that fees, charges, formalities and requirements imposed 
in connection with the importation and exportation of goods shall be consistent with 
their obligations under GATT 1994. 
 
2.  No  Party  may  require  consular  transactions,  including  related  fees  and 
charges, in connection with the importation of any good of the other Parties.  
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  make  available  through  the  Internet  or  a  comparable 
computer-based telecommunications network a current list of the fees and charges 
it imposes in connection with importation or exportation. 
 
 
3-5  
Article 3.10: Export Duties 
 
No Party may adopt or maintain any duty, tax, or other charge on the export 
of any good to the territory of the other Parties, unless such duty, tax, or charge is 
adopted  or  maintained  on  any  such  good  when  destined  for  domestic 
consumption.1  
 
 
Article 3.11: Agricultural Export Subsidies 
 
1.  The Parties share the objective of the multilateral elimination of all forms of 
export subsidies for agricultural goods and shall cooperate in an effort to achieve 
such an agreement and prevent their reintroduction in any form.   
 
2.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Parties agree to 
eliminate, as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement, all forms of export 
subsidy for agricultural goods destined for the other Parties, and to prevent the 
reintroduction of such subsidies in any form. 
 
 
Article 3.12: Price Band System 
 
1.  Chile may maintain its Price Band System as established in Article 12 of 
Law 18.525 and its subsequent legal modifications or succeeding system, for the 
products covered by that law.2 
 
2  With respect to the products referred to in Paragraph 1, Chile shall give to 
the  other  Parties  a  treatment  not  less  favourable  than  the  preferential  tariff 
treatment  given  to  any  third  country,  including  countries  with  which  Chile  has 
concluded or will conclude in the future an agreement notified under Article XXIV of 
GATT 1994.  
 
 
Article 3.13: Special Agricultural Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  Chile  may  apply  a  special  safeguard  measure  to  a  limited  number  of 
specified sensitive agricultural goods listed in Annex 3.B.   
 
2.  Chile shall endeavour to apply special safeguard measures in a manner that 
is consistent with its commitments under this Agreement to liberalise and promote 
the expansion of trade in these goods among the Parties.  
 
                                                           
1 For greater certainty, this Article shall not apply to fees, charges, formalities and requirements on 
the exportation of goods imposed consistent with the provisions of Article VIII of GATT 1994. 
2 The only products covered by the Price Band System are HS 1001.9000, 1101.0000, 1701.1100, 
1701.1200, 1701.9100, 1701.9910, 1701.9920 and 1701.9990. 
3-6  
3  Chile may impose a special safeguard measure on a good only during the 
period, following the grace period specified in Chile’s Schedule as set out in Annex 
I, in which tariffs are being eliminated.  Chile may not impose a special safeguard 
measure  on  a  good  after  that  good  achieves  duty-free  status  under  this 
Agreement.   
 
4.  Notwithstanding Article 3.4, Chile may impose a special safeguard measure 
in the form of additional import duties as set out below on those goods listed in 
Annex 3.B.  The sum of any such additional duty and any import duties or other 
charges applied pursuant to Article 3.4 shall not exceed the lesser of: 
 
(a)  the prevailing most-favoured-nation applied rate; or 
 
(b)  the base rate. 
 
5.  Chile may impose a special safeguard measure if the quantity of imports of 
the good during any semester exceeds the quantity trigger level, corresponding to 
that specific semester, for those goods listed in Annex 3.B.   
 
6.  Chile may maintain a special safeguard measure, under Paragraph 5, only 
until the end of the semester in which Chile applies the measure. 
 
7  Supplies of the good in question which were en route on the basis of a 
contract settled before the additional customs duty is imposed under the terms of 
this Article shall be exempted from any such additional customs duty, provided that 
they may be counted in the volume of imports of the good in question during the 
following semester for the purposes of triggering the provisions of Paragraph 5 in 
that semester. 
 
8.  Chile may not apply, with respect to the same good, a special safeguard 
measure and at the same time apply or maintain a measure under Article XIX of 
GATT 1994 and the Safeguards Agreement. 
 
9.  Chile shall apply any special safeguard measure in a transparent manner.  
Chile shall ensure that the current volume of imports is published in a manner 
which is readily accessible to the other Parties, and shall give notice in writing, 
including  relevant  data,  to  the  other  Parties  as  far  in  advance  as  may  be 
practicable and in any event within 10 working days of the implementation of such 
action.    If  Chile  decides  not  to  apply  a  special  safeguard  measure  where  the 
specified trigger volume has been or is about to be met, it shall notify the other 
Parties promptly of its decision. 
 
10.   Upon  request  of  a  Party,  Chile  shall  consult  promptly  and  cooperate  in 
exchanging information, as appropriate, with respect to the conditions for applying 
a special safeguard measure. 
 
3-7  
11.  The Committee on Trade in Goods may review the implementation and 
operation of this Article. 
 
12.  For purposes of this Article, special safeguard measure means a special 
safeguard measure described in Paragraph 4 and base rate means the rate of 
customs duty for an imported good as indicated in the Schedule of the importing 
Party as set out in Annex I.  
 
 
Article 3.14: Committee on Trade in Goods 
 
1.  The Parties may establish a Committee on Trade in Goods that may meet 
on the request of any Party or the Commission to consider any matter arising 
under this Chapter and Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin).  
 
2.  The Committee’s functions shall include: 
 
(a)  reviewing the implementation of the Chapters referred to above; and  
 
(b)  identification and recommendation of measures to promote and facilitate 
improved market access, including addressing barriers to trade in goods 
among the Parties, and to accelerate the tariff elimination under this 
Agreement. 
 
3-8  
Annex 3.A 
 
Import and Export Measures 
 
 
Measures of Chile 
 
 
  Article 3.8 shall not apply to measures of Chile relating to imports of used 
vehicles. 
3-9  
Annex 3.B 
 
Special Safeguard Measures 
 
For  purposes  of  Article  3.13,  goods  originating  in  Brunei  Darussalam, 
New Zealand or Singapore that may be subject to a special safeguard measure 
and the trigger levels for each such good are set out below: 
 
 
 
List of Chile 
 
 
 
     
3-10  
 
 
   
     
3-11  
  Basket 1 : 112.2 tons    
  Basket 2 :  5.4 tons   
  Basket 3 : 27.6 tons   
  Basket 4 :  2.4 tons   
  Basket 5 :  0.6 tons   
  Basket 6 : 156 tons   
  Basket 7 : 240 tons   
  Basket 8 :  3.6 tons   
  Basket 9 :  87 tons   
 
 
Notes:   
 
•  The quantities set out above for baskets correspond to each semester.  The 
semesters run from January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31 for 
each year.   
 
•  Each basket will have an annual growth rate of 8 percent which will be 
calculated at the end of each calendar year.  
 
•  In the first calendar year following entry into force of the Agreement, the 
8 percent  annual  growth  rate  will  apply  to  that  calendar  year  and  each 
calendar year thereafter.  
 
3-12  
 
CHAPTER 4  
  
RULES OF ORIGIN 
  
  
Article 4.1:  Definitions 
  
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
  
aquaculture  means  the  farming  of  aquatic  organisms  including  fish,  molluscs, 
crustaceans, other aquatic invertebrates and aquatic plants, from seedstock such 
as  eggs,  fry,  fingerlings  and  larvae,  by  intervention  in  the  rearing  or  growth 
processes to enhance production, such as regular stocking, feeding, or protection 
from predators; 
 
CIF means the value of the good imported and includes the cost of insurance and 
freight up to the port or place of entry in the country of importation. The valuation 
shall be made in accordance with the Customs Valuation Agreement; 
  
FOB means the value of the good free on board, independent of the means of 
transportation, at the port or site of final shipment abroad.  The valuation shall be 
made in accordance with the Customs Valuation Agreement;  
 
goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in a Party means: 
  
(a)  mineral goods extracted from the soil or seabed in the territory of a 
Party; 
  
(b)  agricultural and plant products grown and harvested, picked or gathered 
in the territory of a Party; 
  
(c)  live animals, born and raised in the territory of a Party; 
  
(d)  goods obtained from live animals in the territory of a Party; 
  
(e)  goods  obtained  from  hunting,  trapping,  fishing,  farming,  gathering, 
capturing or aquaculture in the territory of a Party; 
  
(f)  goods  (fish,  shellfish,  plant  and  other  marine  life)  taken  within  the 
territorial sea or the relevant maritime zone of a Party seaward of the 
territorial sea under that Party's applicable law in accordance with the 
provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982 
by a vessel flying, or entitled to fly, the flag of that Party, or taken from 
the high seas by a vessel registered or recorded with that Party and 
flying its flag; 
  
4-1 
  
 
(g)  goods  obtained  or  produced  on  board  a  factory  ship  registered  or 
recorded with that Party and flying its flag, exclusively from products 
referred to in Subparagraph (f); 
 
(h)  waste and scrap derived from production in the territory of a Party or 
used articles or goods collected in the territory of a Party, provided that 
such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials; 
 
(i)  goods taken by a Party, or a person of a Party, from the seabed or 
subsoil beneath the territorial sea or the continental shelf of that Party, in 
accordance with the provision of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea 1982; 
  
(j)  recovered goods derived in the territory of a Party from used goods and 
utilised in the territory of the Party in the production of remanufactured 
goods; and       
  
(k)  goods produced entirely in the territory of a Party exclusively from goods 
referred to in Subparagraphs (a) to (j) or from their derivatives, at any 
stage of production; 
  
indirect material means a good used in the production, testing or inspection of 
another good but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the 
maintenance  of  buildings  or  the  operation  of  equipment  associated  with  the 
production of a good, including: 
  
(a)  fuel, energy, catalysts and solvents; 
  
(b)  equipment,  devices,  and  supplies  used  for  testing  or  inspecting  the 
goods; 
  
(c)  gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and supplies; 
  
(d)  tools, dies and moulds; 
  
(e)  spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and  
buildings; 
  
(f)  lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other materials used in 
production or used to operate equipment and buildings; and 
  
(g)  any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but whose use 
in the production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a 
part of that production. 
 
 
4-2 
  
 
material means a good or any matter or substance that is used or consumed in the 
production of goods or transformation of another good; 
 
minimal  operations  or  processes  means  operations  or  processes  which 
contribute minimally to the essential characteristics of the goods and which by 
themselves, or in combination, do not confer origin; 
  
packing materials and containers for shipment means goods used to protect a 
good during its transportation, other than containers and packaging materials used 
for retail sale; 
  
production  means  methods  of  obtaining  goods  including,  but  not  limited  to 
growing, raising, mining, harvesting, fishing, farming, trapping, hunting, capturing, 
aquaculture, gathering, collecting, breeding, extracting, manufacturing, processing, 
assembling  or disassembling a good; 
 
recovered goods means materials in the form of individual parts that result from: 
  
(a)  the complete disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and 
  
(b)  the cleaning, inspecting, or testing or other processing of those parts, 
and as necessary for improvement to sound working condition one or 
more  of  the  following  processes:  welding,  flame  spraying,  surface 
machining, knurling, plating, sleeving and rewinding in order for such 
parts to be assembled with other parts, including other recovered parts 
in the production of a remanufactured good as listed in Annex 4.A; 
  
remanufactured goods means an industrial good assembled in the territory of a 
Party as listed in Annex 4.A, that: 
  
(a)  is entirely or partially composed of recovered goods; 
  
(b)  has  the  same  life  expectancy  and  meets  the  same  performance 
standards as a new good; and 
  
(c)  enjoys the same factory warranty as such a new good;  
  
transaction value means the price paid or payable for a good as determined by 
the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement;  
  
used means used or consumed in the production of goods; 
 
value means the value of a good or material, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Customs Valuation Agreement. 
  
 
4-3 
  
 
Article 4.2:  Originating Goods 
  
Unless otherwise indicated in this Chapter, a good shall be considered as 
originating in a Party when: 
  
(a)  the good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one 
Party, pursuant to the definition in Article 4.1; 
  
(b)  the good is produced entirely in the territory of one or more Parties, 
exclusively from materials whose origin conforms to the provisions of 
this Chapter; or 
  
(c)  the good is produced in the territory of one or more Parties, using non-
originating materials that conform to a change in tariff classification, a 
regional value content, or other requirements specified in Annex II, and 
the good meets the other applicable provisions of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 4.3:  Regional Value Content 
  
1.  Where Annex II refers to a regional value content, each Party shall provide 
that the regional value content of a good shall be calculated on the basis of the 
following method:  
  
       TV - VNM  
RVC   =   ---------------   x 100 
                      TV 
  
where: 
  
RVC    is the regional value content expressed as a percentage;  
  
TV     is  the  transaction  value  of  the  good,  adjusted  on  an  FOB 
basis, except as provided in Paragraph 3. If no such value exists or 
cannot  be  determined,  pursuant  to  the  principles  of  Article  1  of  the 
Customs Valuation Agreement, it shall be calculated pursuant to the 
principles of Articles 2 to 7 of that Agreement; and 
  
VNM  is the transaction value of the non-originating materials, when 
they  were  first  acquired  or  supplied  to  the  producer  of  the  goods, 
adjusted on a CIF basis, except as provided in Paragraph 4.  If such 
value does not exist or cannot be determined, pursuant to the principles 
of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, it shall be calculated 
pursuant to that Agreement.  
 
4-4 
  
 
2.  The  value  of  the  non-originating  materials  used  by  the  producer  in  the 
production of a good shall not include, for purposes of calculating the regional 
value content, pursuant to Paragraph 1, the value of non-originating materials used 
to produce the originating materials subsequently used in the production of the 
good. 
  
3.  When the producer of a good does not export it directly, the value shall be 
adjusted  up  to  the  point  at  which  the  purchaser  receives  the  good  within  the 
territory of a Party where the producer is located. 
 
4.  When the producer of the good acquires a non-originating material in the 
territory of the Party where it is located, the value of such material shall not include 
freight, insurance, packing costs and any other costs incurred in transporting the 
material from the supplier's warehouse to the producer's location. 
 
 
Article 4.4:  Operations that do not Confer Origin 
  
The minimal operations or processes that do not confer origin, include the 
following: 
 
(a)  operations to ensure the preservation of products in good condition 
during transport and storage (such as drying, freezing, ventilation, 
chilling and like operations); 
 
(b)  simple operations consisting of sifting, classifying, washing, cutting, 
slitting, bending, coiling, or uncoiling; 
 
(c)  changes of packing and breaking up and assembly of consignments; 
 
(d)  packing, unpacking or repacking operations;  
 
(e)  affixing of marks, labels or other like distinguishing signs on products 
or their packaging; and 
 
(f)  mere  dilution  with  water  or  another  substance  that  does  not 
materially alter the characteristics of the goods. 
 
 
Article 4.5:  Accumulation 
  
Originating goods or materials of any of the Parties used in the production of 
goods  in  the  territory  of  another  Party  shall  be  considered  to  originate  in  the 
territory of the latter Party. 
  
 
4-5 
  
 
Article 4.6:  De Minimis 
  
A good that does not conform to a change in tariff classification, pursuant to 
the provisions of Annex II, shall be considered to be originating if the value of all 
non-originating materials used in its production not meeting the change in tariff 
classification requirement does not exceed 10 percent of the transaction value of 
the given good pursuant to Article 4.3, and the good meets all the other applicable 
criteria of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 4.7:  Accessories, Spare Parts, and Tools 
  
1.  Normal accessories, spare parts, or tools provided with the good as part of 
the standard accessories, spare parts, or tools shall be regarded as originating 
goods  and  shall  be  disregarded  in  determining  whether  or  not  all  the  non-
originating materials used in the production of the originating goods undergo the 
applicable change in tariff classification, provided that: 
  
(a)  the accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with and not invoiced 
separately from the good; and 
 
(b)  the quantities and the value of those accessories, spare parts, or tools 
are the normal ones for the good. 
 
2.  If the goods are subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of 
the accessories, spare parts, or tools shall be taken into account as originating or 
non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value 
content of the goods.  
 
 
Article 4.8:  Packaging Materials and Containers for Retail Sale 
  
Packaging materials and containers in which goods are packaged for retail 
sale, if classified with the goods, shall be disregarded in determining whether all 
the  non-originating  materials  used  in  the  production  of  those  goods  have 
undergone  the  applicable  change  in  tariff  classification  set  out  in  Annex  II. 
However, if the goods are subject to a regional value content requirement the value 
of  the  packaging  used  for  retail  sale  will  be  counted  as  originating  or  non-
originating, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the 
goods.  
 
  
4-6 
  
 
Article 4.9: Packing Materials and Containers for Shipment 
  
Packing materials and containers in which a good is packed exclusively for 
transport shall not be taken into account for purposes of establishing whether the 
good is originating. 
 
 
Article 4.10: Indirect Materials 
  
Indirect materials shall be considered to be originating materials without 
regard to where they are produced and its value shall be the cost registered in the 
accounting records of the producer of the good. 
  
 
Article 4.11: Transit through Non-Parties 
             
1.  Preferential tariff treatment provided for in this Agreement shall be applied to 
goods  that  satisfy  the  requirements  of  this  Chapter  and  which  are  directly 
transported among the Parties. 
  
2.  Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, goods shall be authorised to transit through 
non-Party countries, and to remain stored for a reasonable period of time, which in 
no case shall be more than 6 months from the date of entry of the goods into the 
third non-Party country.  
 
3.  Goods shall be eligible for preferential tariff treatment in accordance with 
this Agreement if they are transported through the territory of one or more non-
Parties, provided that the goods:       
 
(a)  did  not  undergo  operations  other  than  unloading,                          
reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve them in good 
condition; and 
  
(b)  did not enter the commerce of such non-Parties after the shipment from 
the Party and before the importation into another Party.                                     
        
4.  Compliance with the provisions set out in Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be 
proved by means of supplying to the customs authorities of the importing Party 
either customs documents of the third country or documents of the competent 
authorities, including commercial shipping or freight documents.  
 
 
4-7 
  
 
Article 4.12: Outward Processing 
  
1.  Notwithstanding  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  4.2  and  the  product-
specific requirements set out in Annex II, a good listed in Annex 4.B shall be 
considered as originating even if it has undergone processes of production or 
operation outside the territory of a Party on a material exported from the Party and 
subsequently re-imported to the Party, provided that: 
 
(a)  the total value of non-originating materials as set out in Paragraph 2 
does not exceed 55 percent of the customs value of the final good for 
which originating status is claimed; 
  
(b)  the materials exported from a Party shall have been wholly obtained or 
produced  in  the  Party  or  have  undergone  therein,  processes  of 
production  or  operation  going  beyond  the  minimal  processes  or 
operations in Article 4.4, prior to being exported outside the territory of 
the Party; 
  
(c)  the producer of the exported material is the same producer of the final 
good for which originating status is claimed;  
  
(d)  the  re-imported  good  has  been  obtained  through  processes  of 
production or operation of the exported material; and 
  
(e)  the  last  process  of  manufacture  of  the  good  was  performed  in  the 
territory of the Party,  and this process is the last activity undertaken in 
respect to a good that finally transforms it into a good different from its 
component  parts  or  materials  and  a  new  good  is  therefore 
manufactured.   
  
2.  For  the  purposes  of  Paragraph  1(a),  the  total  value  of  non-originating 
materials shall be the value of any non-originating materials added in a Party as 
well as the value of any materials added and all other costs accumulated outside 
the territory of the Party, including transportation costs. 
 
3.  For greater certainty, the verification procedures referred to in Article 4.16 
shall  apply  in  order  to  ensure  the  proper  application  of  this  Article.  Such 
procedures  include  the  provision  of  information  and  supporting  documentation, 
including that relating to the export of originating materials and the subsequent re-
import of the goods subsequently exported as originating goods, by the exporting 
customs  administration  or  exporter  upon  receipt  of  a  written  request  from  the 
customs administration of the importing Party through the customs administration 
of the exporting Party. 
 
4.  Upon the request of a Party, the list of products in Annex 4.B may be 
modified by the Commission. 
4-8 
  
 
 
 
Article 4.13: Treatment of Goods for which Preference is Claimed  
 
1.  A Party can accept either; a declaration as to origin on the export invoice 
(declaration), or a certificate of origin, in respect of a good imported from any other 
Party for which an importer claims preferential tariff treatment. 
 
2.   An exporter or producer may elect to use either a declaration as to origin on 
the export invoice or a certificate of origin, either of which may then be used by the 
importer  as  evidence  of  origin  in  respect  to  goods  for  which  preferential  tariff 
treatment is claimed. 
 
3.  The declaration or certificate of origin shall be completed by the exporter or 
producer, as the case may be.  The declaration or certificate of origin shall:    
 
(a)  specify  that  the  goods  enumerated  thereon  are  the  origin  of  the 
exporting Party and meet the terms of this Chapter; 
 
(b)  be made in respect of one or more goods; and which can include a 
variety of goods; and 
 
(c)  be completed in English.  
 
4.  The export invoice upon which the declaration as to origin is affixed and in 
respect of the goods subject to the declaration shall include: 
 
(a)  a full description; 
 
(b)  six digit Harmonized System Code;  
 
(c)  the producer's name(s) if known; and 
 
(d)  the importer's name(s) in respect of imported goods, if known. 
 
5.  If  the  export  invoice  does  not  include  the  information  referred  to  in 
Paragraph 4, it must be added in "observations" on the declaration as to origin in 
the form set out in Annex 4.C.   
 
6.  The declaration shall be in the form set out in Annex 4.C, and the certificate 
of origin shall be in the form set out in Annex 4.D.  These requirements may 
thereafter be revised or modified by an Implementing Arrangement agreed among 
the Parties. 
 
7.  The declaration and the certificate of origin shall remain valid for a period of 
2 years from the date on which the respective documents were issued. 
4-9 
  
 
 
8.  If the exporter is not the producer of the good referred to on the declaration 
or on the certificate of origin, that exporter may complete and sign the declaration 
on the basis of: 
 
(a)  the exporter's knowledge of whether the good qualifies as an originating 
good; or 
 
(b)  a producer’s written declaration that the good qualifies as an originating 
good in that it meets the terms of this Chapter. 
 
9.  Nothing in Paragraph 8(b) shall be construed to require a producer who is 
not the exporter of the good to make a declaration or complete a certificate of 
origin. 
 
10.  Slight discrepancies as between the wording and detail stated on the export 
invoice  or  certificate  of  origin  produced  to  the  customs  administration  of  the 
importing  Party  in  clearance  of  goods  shall  not,  of  itself,  cause  any  claim  for 
preferential tariff treatment to be denied. 
 
11.  Any declaration or certificate of origin presented in the clearance of goods 
issued in advance of the entry into force of this Agreement shall, if presented on or 
after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, be accepted as evidence as to 
the origin of the good specified thereon.   
 
12.  The customs administration of the importing Party shall, in accordance with 
its domestic legislation, grant preferential tariff treatment to goods of another Party 
only in those instances that an importer: 
 
(a)  provides to the customs administration a declaration or certificate of 
origin in accord with the provisions of this Article; or 
 
(b)  provides sufficient documentary or other evidence to substantiate the 
tariff preference claimed for the goods.  
 
13.  The Parties shall, in accordance with their domestic legislation, provide that 
where an importer claims at the time of importation a good can meet the terms of 
this Chapter and would thereby have qualified for preferential tariff treatment but 
was unable to provide a declaration or a certificate of origin or other such evidence 
as provided for in Paragraph 12 the importer may, in accordance with domestic 
legislation or within 1 year from date of importation, apply for a refund of any 
excess customs duties paid as a result of the goods not having been accorded 
preferential tariff treatment, on production of: 
 
(a)  a  declaration  or  certificate  of  origin  that  the  good  qualifies  as  an 
originating good; and 
4-10 
  
 
 
(b)  such  other  evidence  as  the  customs  administration  may  require  to 
satisfactorily evidence the tariff preference claimed. 
 
14.  An importing Party may not require a declaration or certificate of origin to 
admit goods pursuant to tariff preference where:   
 
(a)  the customs value does not exceed US$1000 or the equivalent amount 
in the Party's currency or a higher amount as it may establish; or 
 
(b)  in respect of specific goods, a Party has waived the requirement for 
such evidence. 
 
15.  In accordance with Paragraph 14, where an importation forms part of a 
series of importations that may reasonably be considered to have been undertaken 
or arranged for the purposes of avoiding the origin requirements of this Article, the 
customs  administration  of  the  importing  Party  may  deny  preferential  tariff 
treatment.  
 
 
Article 4.14: Obligations Regarding Exports 
 
1.  Where the exporter or producer becomes aware that it has provided an 
erroneous or false declaration or certificate of origin or any other such erroneous or 
false evidence, the exporter or producer shall give notice as soon as possible to 
the customs administrations of the importing and exporting Party, as well as the 
importer, of any change that would affect the accuracy or validity of a declaration or 
certificate of origin. 
 
2.  The exporter or producer that has provided a declaration or a certificate of 
origin, shall provide a copy of these documents to its exporting Party's customs 
administration upon request.  
 
3.  With  respect  to  exports,  each  Party  shall  provide  penalties  for  false 
declarations,  certification,  or  documentation  related  to  origin  submitted  to  a 
customs administration by an exporter or producer in its territory. 
 
 
Article 4.15: Records 
 
Each Party shall require that producers, exporters and importers in their 
respective territories maintain for a period of not less than 3 years after the date of 
exportation  or  importation,  as  the  case  may  be,  all  records  relating  to  that 
exportation or importation which are necessary to demonstrate that a good for 
which  a  claim  for  tariff  preference  was  made  qualifies  for  preferential  tariff 
treatment. 
4-11 
  
 
 
 
Article 4.16: Verification of Origin 
 
1.  For the purposes of determining whether goods imported into the territory of 
a  Party  from  the  territory  of  another  Party  qualify  as  originating  goods,  the 
importing Party may, through its customs administration, verify any claims made for 
tariff preference by means of: 
 
(a)  written requests for information addressed to the importer; 
 
(b)  written questions and requests for information addressed to the exporter 
or producer in the territory of the exporting Party through the customs 
administrations of the exporting Party;  
 
(c)  requests to the customs administration of the exporting Party to verify 
the origin of the good; or 
 
(d)  such other procedures as the customs administrations of the Parties 
may agree. 
 
2.  If the mechanism established in Paragraph 1 fails to determine the origin of 
a good, the importing Party may request, through the customs administration of the 
exporting Party, to visit the premises of the exporter or producer in the territory of 
the exporting Party:  
 
(a)  to review records referring to origin; and 
 
(b)  to observe the facilities used in production of the goods. 
 
3.  The requesting Party shall, through its customs administration: 
 
(a)  ensure  that  any  request  made  to  the  customs  administration  of  the 
exporting  Party  is  sufficiently  material  to  warrant  the  request  and  is 
accompanied by sufficient information to identify the particular goods 
and the exporter or producer of those goods; and 
 
(b)  specify  a  period  of  60  days  from  the  date  the  written  questions  or 
request was sent to the exporter or producer to fully respond to the 
questions or request. 
 
4.  The Parties agree to facilitate requests for assistance through their customs 
administrations under this Article within 10 days of receipt of the request. 
 
 
4-12 
  
 
Article 4.17: Decision on Origin 
 
1.  If as a result of questions put or visits made to the exporter or producer the 
requesting Party is satisfied the goods about which those questions were put or 
visits made are originating goods pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, it shall 
permit preferential access for those goods. 
 
2.  Preferential tariff treatment may be denied if: 
 
(a)  the goods do not or did not meet the requirements of this Chapter; 
 
(b)  the exporter or producer fails to respond fully to questions put by the 
customs administration of the importing Party within 60 days of the date 
of the request of the importing Party, or such other extended period of 
time  as  may  be  specified  by  the  customs  administrations  of  the 
importing Party, but not more than an additional 30 days; 
 
(c)  the  requested  customs  administration  is,  for  any  reason,  unable  to 
comply with a request from the customs administration of the importing 
Party to verify the origin of goods and advises the requesting customs 
administration of this inability or, fails to respond to a request within 90 
days; or 
 
(d)  the  exporter  or  producer  does  not  agree  to  a  visit  by  the  customs 
administration of the importing Party within 30 days. 
 
3.  In the event preferential tariff treatment is denied the importing Party shall 
ensure  that  its  customs  administration  provides  in  writing  to  the  exporter,  the 
importer or producer, as the case may be, full reasons for that decision. 
 
4.  Where verifications by a Party indicate a pattern of conduct by an exporter 
or a producer of false or unsupported representations that a good imported into its 
territory qualifies as an originating good, the Party may withhold preferential tariff 
treatment to identical goods exported or produced by such a person until it is 
satisfied that the exporter or producer is no longer making false or unsupported 
representations as to origin. 
 
 
Article 4.18: Costs Incurred 
 
1.   The ordinary costs of complying with a request for verification will be borne 
by: 
 
(a)  the requested Party; or 
 
4-13 
  
 
(b)  the Party which visits an exporter or producer, as the case may be, in 
the territory of the other Party. 
 
2.   Where extraordinary costs or doubts in determining costs arise, these shall 
be resolved by mutual agreement between Parties. 
 
 
4-14 
  
 
Annex 4.A 
 
Goods  classified  in  the  following  Harmonized  System  subheadings  may  be 
considered remanufactured goods, except for those designed principally for use in 
automotive goods of Harmonized System headings or subheadings 8702, 8703, 
8704.21, 8704.31, 8704.32, 8706 and 8707: 
 
8408.10 
8408.20 
8408.90 
8409.10 
8409.91 
8409.99 
8412.21 
8412.29 
8412.39 
8412.90 
8413.30 
8413.50 
8413.60 
8413.91 
8414.30 
8414.80 
8414.90 
8483.10 
8483.30 
8483.40 
8483.50 
8483.60 
8483.90 
8503.00 
8511.40 
8511.50 
8526.10 
8537.10 
8542.21 
 
4-15 
  
 
 
Annex 4.B 
 
 
Goods classified in the following Harmonized System subheadings are goods to 
which Article 4.12 (Outward Processing) applies: 
 
4014.90 
7015.40 
7019.90 
8207.19 
8409.99 
8412.80 
8414.59 
8414.80 
8414.90 
8415.81 
8415.90 
8421.21 
8421.99 
8422.30 
8422.40 
8423.82 
8423.89 
8423.90 
8424.30 
8424.90 
8437.90 
8441.10 
8443.90 
8451.29 
8462.31 
8462.99 
8467.22 
8467.91 
8467.99 
8471.60 
8471.70 
8471.80 
8473.29 
8473.30 
8479.89 
8479.90 
8480.20 
8480.49 
8480.79 
4-16 
  
 
8483.50 
8484.20 
8501.20 
8501.31 
8501.32 
8501.33 
8501.34 
8501.53 
8501.61 
8501.62 
8502.11 
8502.12 
8502.13 
8502.20 
8502.31 
8502.39 
8502.40 
8504.21 
8504.22 
8504.31 
8504.32 
8504.33 
8504.34 
8504.40 
8504.90 
8505.11 
8505.19 
8506.90 
8507.40 
8509.20 
8509.90 
8511.20 
8511.80 
8514.10 
8514.30 
8514.40 
8514.90 
8515.11 
8515.19 
8515.21 
8515.31 
8515.80 
8515.90 
8516.21 
8516.33 
8518.29 
4-17 
  
 
8518.50 
8520.32 
8520.33 
8520.39 
8520.90 
8522.10 
8522.90 
8523.30 
8524.60 
8525.10 
8525.30 
8526.10 
8526.91 
8526.92 
8531.90 
8535.29 
8535.40 
8536.41 
8536.49 
8539.29 
8539.32 
8539.39 
8539.41 
8539.49 
8539.90 
8540.72 
8540.79 
8540.89 
8542.21 
8542.29 
8543.20 
8543.30 
8543.90 
8544.41 
8545.20 
8546.10 
8548.10 
8714.93 
8714.96 
8803.30 
8905.20 
9001.10 
9001.50 
9006.10 
9008.30 
9010.90 
4-18 
  
 
9013.80 
9017.20 
9017.80 
9018.11 
9027.90 
9031.10 
9031.80 
9032.90 
9033.00 
9403.70 
9403.80 
9405.50 
 
 
4-19 
  
 
Annex 4.C 
 
DECLARATION AS TO ORIGIN 
 
 
 
I                                         [state name and position] being the                          
[producer and exporter][producer][exporter] (insert only that which applies) hereby 
declare that the goods enumerated on this invoice are originating from [Brunei 
Darussalam] [Chile] [New Zealand] [Singapore] (insert only that which applies) in 
that they comply with the provisions of Article 4.13 of the Trans-Pacific Strategic 
Economic Partnership Agreement entered into among Brunei Darussalam, Chile, 
New Zealand and Singapore. 
 
 
Observations: 
 
 
 
 
Signature                Date:       
 
 
4-20 
  
 
Annex 4.D 
 
TRANS-PACIFIC STRATEGIC ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
          Issuing Number:  
4-21 
  
 
TRANS-PACIFIC STRATEGIC ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT 
 
CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN INSTRUCTIONS 
 
Pursuant to Article 4.13, for the purposes of obtaining preferential tariff treatment this document must be completed legibly and in full by 
the exporter or producer and be in the possession of the importer at the time the declaration is made. Please print or type: 
 
Issuing Number: Fill in the serial number of the certificate of origin. 
 
Field 1:  State the full legal name, address (including country) and legal tax identification number of the exporter. The legal tax 
identification number in Chile is the Unique Tax Number (“Rol Unico Tributario”).  The tax identification number is not 
applicable for Brunei Darussalam, New Zealand and Singapore. 
 
Field 2:  If one producer, state the full legal name, address (including country, telephone number, fax number and email address) and 
legal tax identification number, as defined in Field 1, of said producer.  (Tax ID is not applicable to Brunei Darussalam, 
New Zealand and Singapore.)  If more than one producer is included on the Certificate, state "Various" and attach a list of 
all producers, including their legal name, address (including country, telephone number, fax number and email address) and 
legal tax identification number, cross referenced to the good or goods described in Field 4.  If you wish this information to 
be confidential, it is acceptable to state " Available to Customs upon request".  If the producer and the exporter are the 
same, complete field with "SAME".  If the producer is unknown, it is acceptable to state "UNKNOWN". 
 
Field 3:  State the full legal name, address (including country) as defined in Field 1, of the importer; if the importer is not known, 
state "UNKNOWN"; if multiple importers, state "VARIOUS". 
 
Field 4:  Provide a full description of each good.  The description should be sufficient to relate it to the invoice description and to the 
Harmonized System (HS) description of the good. 
 
Field 5:  For each good described in Field 4, identify the HS tariff classification to six digits. 
 
Field 6:  For each good described in Field 4, state which criterion (1 through 3) is applicable.  The rules of origin are contained in 
Chapter 4 and Annex II of the Agreement. NOTE: In order to be entitled to preferential tariff treatment, each good must 
meet at least one of the criteria below. 
 
Preference Criteria 
 
A  The good is "wholly obtained or produced entirely" in the territory of one or more of the Parties, as referred to in Article 4.1 and 
4.2 of the Agreement. NOTE: The purchase of a good in the territory does not necessarily render it "wholly obtained or 
produced". 
 
B  The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties exclusively from originating materials.  All 
  materials used in the production of the good must qualify as "originating" by meeting the rules of Chapter 4 of the Agreement.  
 
C  The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties and satisfies the specific rule of origin set out in 
Annex II of the Agreement (Specific Rules of Origin) that applies to its tariff classification as referred to in Article 4.2, or the 
provisions under Article 4.12 of the Agreement.  The rule may include a tariff classification change, regional value-content 
requirement and a combination thereof, or specific process requirement.  The good must also satisfy all other applicable 
requirements of Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin) of the Agreement. 
 
Field 7:  For each good described in Field 4, state "YES" if you are the producer of the good.  If you are not the producer of the good, 
state "NO" followed by (1) or (2), depending on whether this certificate was based upon: (1) your knowledge of whether the 
good qualifies as an originating good; (2) Issued by the producer's written Declaration of Origin, which is completed and 
signed by the producer and voluntarily provided to the exporter by the producer. 
 
Field 8:  For each good described in Field 4, where the good is subject to a regional value content (RVC) requirement stipulated in the 
Agreement, indicate the percentage.   
 
Field 9:   Identify the name of the country. ("BN" for all goods originating from Brunei Darussalam, "CL" for all goods originating 
from Chile, "NZ" for all goods originating from New Zealand, "SG" for all goods originating from Singapore) 
 
Field 10:  This field must be completed, signed and dated by the exporter or producer. The date must be the date the Certificate was 
completed and signed. 
 
 
4-22 
  
 
 
CHAPTER 5  
 
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES 
 
 
Article 5.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
customs  law  means  any  legislation  administered,  applied  or  enforced  by  the 
customs administration of a Party; 
 
customs offence means any breach or attempted breach of customs law; 
 
customs procedures means the treatment applied by the customs administration 
of each Party to goods, which are subject to customs control.  
 
 
Article 5.2: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter of the Agreement are to: 
 
(a)  ensure predictability, consistency and transparency in the application of 
customs laws and other customs administrative policies of the Parties; 
 
(b)  ensure efficient, economical administration of customs procedures, and 
the expeditious clearance of goods; 
 
(c)  facilitate trade among the Parties; 
 
(d)  apply simplified customs procedures; and 
 
(e)  promote cooperation among the customs administrations. 
 
 
Article 5.3: Scope 
 
This  Chapter  shall  apply,  in  accordance  with  each  Party's  respective 
international obligations and customs law, to customs procedures applied to goods 
traded among the Parties. 
 
 
5-1 
  
 
Article 5.4: Customs Procedures and Facilitation 
 
1.  Customs procedures of the Parties shall, where possible and to the extent 
permitted  by  their  respective  customs  law,  conform  with  the  standards  and 
recommended  practices  of  the  World  Customs  Organisation,  including  the 
principles of the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonisation 
of Customs Procedures. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  customs  procedures  and  practices  are 
predictable, consistent, transparent and facilitate trade. 
 
3.  The customs administrations of the Parties shall periodically review their 
customs procedures with a view to their further simplification and the development 
of further mutually beneficial arrangements to facilitate trade.  
 
 
Article 5.5: Customs Cooperation  
 
1.  To the extent permitted by their domestic law, the customs administrations 
of the Parties may, as they deem fit, assist each other, in relation to originating 
goods, by providing information on the following: 
 
(a)   the implementation and operation of this Chapter; 
 
(b)   the movement of goods among the Parties; 
 
(c)   investigation and prevention of prima facie customs offences; 
  
(d)  developing  and  implementing  customs  best  practice  and  risk 
management techniques; 
 
(e)   simplifying and expediting customs procedures;  
 
(f)   advancing technical skills and the use of technology; 
 
(g)   application of the Customs Valuation Agreement; and 
 
(h)   additional assistance in respect to other matters. 
 
2.    Where a Party providing information to another Party in accordance with this 
Chapter designates the information as confidential, the other Party shall maintain 
the confidentiality of the information.  
 
 
5-2 
  
 
Article 5.6: Customs Valuation 
 
The Parties shall determine the customs value of goods traded among them 
in accordance with the provisions of Article VII of GATT 1994 and the Customs 
Valuation Agreement. 
 
 
Article 5.7: Advance Rulings 
 
1.   Each  Party,  through  its  customs  administration,  shall  provide  in  writing 
advance  rulings  in  respect  of  the  tariff  classification  and  origin  of  goods  and 
whether  a  good  qualifies  for  entry  free  of  customs  duty  in  accordance  with 
Article 3.5 (Goods Re-entered After Repair or Alteration) (hereinafter referred to as 
“advance rulings”), to a person described in Subparagraph 2(a).  
 
2.   Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures for advance rulings, which 
shall: 
 
(a)  provide that an importer in its territory or an exporter or producer in the 
territory of another Party may apply for an advance ruling before the 
importation of goods in question; 
 
(b)  require  that  an  applicant  for  an  advance  ruling  provide  a  detailed 
description of the goods and all relevant information needed to issue an 
advance ruling; 
 
(c)   provide  that  its  customs  administration  may,  at  any  time  during  the 
course of issuing an advance ruling, request that the applicant provide 
additional information within a specified period; 
 
(d)   provide  that  any  advance  ruling  be  based  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances  presented  by  the  applicant,  and  any  other  relevant 
information in the possession of the decision-maker; and 
 
(e)    provide that an advance ruling be issued to the applicant expeditiously, 
or in any case within 60 days of the receipt of all necessary information. 
 
3.   A Party may reject requests for  an advance ruling where the additional 
information requested by it in accordance with Subparagraph 2(c) is not provided 
within a specified time. 
 
4.   Subject to Paragraph 5, each Party shall apply an advance ruling to all 
importations  of  goods  described  in  that  ruling  imported  into  its  territory  within 
3 years of the date of that ruling, or such other period as required by that Party's 
laws. 
 
5-3 
  
 
5.  A Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling upon a determination that 
the ruling was based on an error of fact or law, the information provided is false or 
inaccurate, if there is a change in domestic law consistent with this Agreement, or 
there is a change in a material fact, or circumstances on which the ruling is based.  
 
6.   Subject to the confidentiality requirements of a Party’s domestic law, each 
Party shall publish its advance rulings. 
 
7.  Where an importer claims that the treatment accorded to an imported good 
should  be  governed  by  an  advanced  ruling,  the  customs  administration  may 
evaluate whether the facts and circumstances of the importation are consistent 
with the facts and circumstances upon which an advanced ruling was based. 
 
8  The importing Party may apply measures as provided in Article 5.12. 
 
 
Article 5.8: Review and Appeal 
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that the importers in its territory have access to: 
 
(a)  administrative review independent of the official or office that issued the 
determination subject to review; and 
 
(b)  judicial  review  of  the  determination  taken  at  the  final  level  of 
administrative review, in accordance with the Party's domestic law. 
 
2.  Notice of the decision on appeal shall be given to the appellant and the 
reasons for such decision shall be provided in writing.  
 
3.  The level of administrative review may include any authority supervising the 
customs administration. 
 
 
Article 5.9: Consultation 
 
The customs administrations of the Parties will encourage consultation with 
each other regarding significant customs issues that affect goods traded among 
the Parties. 
 
 
5-4 
  
 
Article 5.10: Paperless Trading 
 
1.  The customs administrations shall each endeavour to provide an electronic 
environment  that  supports  business  transactions  between  it  and  its  trading 
communities. 
 
2.  In implementing initiatives that provide for paperless trading, the customs 
administrations of the Parties shall take into account the methods developed in 
APEC and the World Customs Organisation. 
 
 
Article 5.11: Express Consignments 
 
Each Party shall ensure efficient clearance of all shipments, while maintaining 
appropriate control and customs selection.  In the event that a Party's existing 
system does not ensure efficient clearance, it should adopt procedures to expedite 
express consignments to: 
 
(a)  provide  for  pre-arrival  processing  of  information  related  to  express 
consignments; 
 
(b)  permit  the  submission  of  a  single  document  covering  all  goods 
contained in a shipment transported by the express shipment company 
through electronic means if possible; and 
 
(c)  minimise,  to  the  extent  possible,  the  documentation  required  for  the 
release of express consignments. 
 
 
Article 5.12: Penalties 
 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures that provide for the imposition 
of civil, criminal or administrative penalties, whether solely or in combination, for 
violations of its customs laws consistent with the provisions of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 5.13: Risk Management 
   
1.  The  Parties  shall  administer  customs  procedures  so  as  to  facilitate  the 
clearance of low-risk goods and focus on high-risk goods.  To enhance the flow of 
goods  across  their  borders  the  customs  administrations  shall  regularly  review 
these procedures. 
2.  Where a customs administration deems that the inspection of goods is not 
necessary to authorise clearance of the goods from customs control, the Party 
shall  endeavour  to  provide  a  single  point  for  the  documentary  or  electronic 
processing of all imports and exports. 
5-5 
  
 
 
 
Article 5.14: Release of Goods 
 
  Each  Party  shall  adopt  or  maintain  procedures  allowing,  to  the  greatest 
extent possible, goods to be released: 
 
(a)  within 48 hours of arrival; and 
 
(b)  at the point of arrival, without temporary transfer to warehouses or other 
locations. 
 
 
Article 5.15: Enquiry Points 
 
  Each Party shall designate one or more enquiry points to address enquires 
from interested persons concerning customs matters, and shall make available on 
the Internet or in print form information concerning procedures for making such 
enquires. 
 
 
Article 5.16: Confidentiality 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require any Party to furnish or 
allow access to confidential information pursuant to this Chapter the disclosure of 
which it considers would: 
 
(a)   be contrary to the public interest as determined by its legislation;  
 
(b)  be contrary to any of its legislation including but not limited to those 
protecting  personal  privacy  or  the  financial  affairs  and  accounts  of 
individual customers of financial institutions;  
 
(c)  impede law enforcement; or 
 
(d)  prejudice  the  competitive  position  of  the  person  providing  the 
information. 
 
 
5-6 
  
 
 
CHAPTER 6  
 
TRADE REMEDIES 
 
 
Article 6.1: Global Safeguards 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement affects the rights and obligations of the Parties 
under  Article  XIX  of  GATT  1994  and  the  Safeguards  Agreement  or  any 
amendments or provisions that supplement or replace them.  
 
2.  This Agreement does not confer any additional rights or obligations on the 
Parties with regard to actions taken pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the 
Safeguards Agreement. 
 
3.  As a courtesy, a Party shall advise the other Parties of a safeguard action 
on initiation of an investigation and the reasons for it. 
 
 
Article 6.2: Antidumping and Countervailing Duties 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement affects the rights and obligations of the Parties 
under Article VI of GATT 1994, the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of 
the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  1994  which  is  part  of  the  WTO 
Agreement  (Antidumping  Agreement)  and  the  Agreement  on  Subsidies  and 
Countervailing Measures which is part of the WTO Agreement (SCM Agreement) 
with  regard  to  the  application  of  antidumping  and  countervailing  duties  or  any 
amendments or provisions that supplement or replace them.  
 
2.  This Agreement does not confer any additional rights or obligations on the 
Parties with regard to actions taken pursuant to Article VI of GATT 1994, the 
Antidumping Agreement and the SCM Agreement. 
 
 
6-1 
  
 
CHAPTER 7  
 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
Article 7.1: Definitions 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
SPS  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on  the  Application  of  Sanitary  and 
Phytosanitary Measures, which is part of the WTO Agreement. 
 
2.  The definitions in Annex A of the SPS Agreement are incorporated into this 
Chapter and shall form part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis. 
 
3.  The  relevant  definitions  developed  by  the  international  organisations 
International Office of Epizootics (OIE), International Plant Protection Convention 
(IPPC), and Codex Alimentarius Commission apply in the implementation of this 
Chapter.  
 
 
Article 7.2: Objectives 
 
  The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a)  uphold  and  enhance  implementation  of  the  SPS  Agreement  and 
applicable  international  standards,  guidelines  and  recommendations 
developed by relevant international organizations (OIE, IPPC and Codex 
Alimentarius Commission); 
 
(b)  expand  trade  opportunities  through  facilitation  of  trade  among  the 
Parties through seeking to resolve trade access issues, while protecting 
human, animal or plant life or health in the territory of the Parties; 
 
(c)  provide a means to improve communication, cooperation and resolution 
of sanitary and phytosanitary issues; and 
 
(d)  establish a mechanism for the recognition of equivalence of sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures and regionalisation practices maintained by the 
Parties consistent with the protection of human, plant and animal life or 
health. 
 
 
7-1 
  
 
Article 7.3: Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to all sanitary or phytosanitary measures of a Party 
that may, directly or indirectly, affect trade among the Parties. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Chapter or Implementing Arrangements shall limit the rights 
or obligations of the Parties pursuant to the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
Article 7.4: Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Matters 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Matters  (the  Committee)  which  shall  include  representatives  of  the  competent 
authorities of the Parties.  
  
2.  The Committee shall meet within one year of the entry into force of this 
Agreement  and  at  least  annually  thereafter  or  as  mutually  determined  by  the 
Parties.  The Committee shall establish its rules of procedure at its first meeting. It 
shall  meet  in  person,  teleconference,  video  conference,  or  through  any  other 
means, as mutually determined by the Parties.  The Committee may also address 
issues through correspondence.  
 
3.  The Committee may agree to establish technical working groups consisting 
of  expert-level  representatives  of  the  Parties,  which  shall  identify  and  address 
technical and scientific issues arising from this Chapter.  When additional expertise 
is  needed,  the  membership  of  these  groups  need  not  be  restricted  to 
representatives of the Parties. 
 
4.  The Committee shall consider any matters relating to the implementation of 
the Chapter including:  
 
(a)  establishing, monitoring and reviewing work plans; and 
 
(b)  initiating, developing, adopting, reviewing and modifying Implementing 
Arrangements  on  technical  matters  which  further  elaborate  the 
provisions of this Chapter in order to facilitate trade among the Parties. 
 
5.  The Implementing Arrangements referred to in Paragraph 4(b) shall include 
the following: 
 
(a)  Competent Authorities and Contact Points (Implementing Arrangement 
1); 
 
(b)  Diseases and Pests for which Regionalisation Decisions can be Taken 
(Implementing Arrangement 2);   
 
7-2 
  
 
(c)  Criteria for Regionalisation Decisions (Implementing Arrangement 3);   
 
(d)  Recognition of Measures (Implementing Arrangement 4); 
 
(e)  Guidelines for Conducting an Audit (Implementing Arrangement 5); 
 
(f)  Certification (Implementing Arrangement 6); 
 
(g)  Import Checks (Implementing Arrangement 7); and 
 
(h)  Equivalence: Procedures for Determination (Implementing Arrangement 
8). 
 
6.  Each  Party  responsible  for  the  implementation  of  an  Implementing 
Arrangement  shall  take  all  necessary  actions  to  implement  such  Arrangement 
within three months following its adoption, unless otherwise agreed by the relevant 
Parties. 
 
7.   The Committee shall report to the Commission on the implementation of this 
Chapter. 
 
 
Article 7.5: Competent Authorities and Contact Points 
 
1.  The  competent  authorities  responsible  for  the  implementation  of  the 
measures referred to in this Chapter are listed in Implementing Arrangement 1.  
The contact points that have the responsibilities relating to notification are also set 
out in Implementing Arrangement 1. 
 
2.  The  Parties  shall  inform  each  other  of  any  significant  changes  in  the 
structure, organisation and division of the competency of its competent authorities 
or contact points. 
 
 
Article 7.6: Adaptation to Regional Conditions 
 
1.  Where a Party has an area or part of its territory free of a disease or pest, 
the Parties may agree in accordance with Implementing Arrangement 3, to list this 
status and the measures in place in Implementing Arrangement 2 to ensure that 
the disease or pest free status will be maintained in the event of an incursion. 
 
2.  In the event of an incursion of a disease or pest specified in Implementing 
Arrangement 2, the importing Party shall recognise the exporting Party’s measures 
specified  in  Implementing  Arrangement  2  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  trade 
among the Parties. 
 
7-3 
  
 
3.  The Parties may agree to list additional diseases or pests in Implementing 
Arrangement  2,  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  specified  in  Implementing 
Arrangement 3. 
 
4.  Where one of the Parties considers that it has a special status with respect 
to a specific disease or pest, it may request recognition of this status.  The Party 
concerned may also request specific guarantees in respect of imports of animals 
and  animal  products,  plants  and  plant  products,  and  other  related  goods 
appropriate to the agreed status.  The guarantees for specific diseases and pests 
shall be specified in Implementing Arrangement 4.   
 
 
Article 7.7: Equivalence 
 
1.  Equivalence may be recognised by the Parties in relation to an individual 
measure and/or groups of measures and/or systems applicable to a sector or part 
of  a  sector  as  specified  in  Implementing  Arrangement  4.      The  equivalence 
determinations recorded in Implementing Arrangement 4 shall be applied to trade 
among  the  relevant  Parties  in  animals  and  animal  products,  plants  and  plant 
products, or as appropriate to related goods. 
 
2.  The recognition of equivalence requires an assessment and acceptance of: 
 
(a)  the legislation, standards and procedures, as well as the programmes in 
place to allow control and to ensure domestic and importing country 
requirements are met; 
 
(b)  the documented structure of the competent authority(ies), their powers, 
their  chain  of  command,  their  modus  operandi  and  the  resources 
available to them; and 
 
(c)  the performance of the competent authority in relation to the control and 
assurance programmes. 
 
In this assessment, the Parties shall take account of experience already acquired. 
 
3.  The importing Party shall accept the sanitary or phytosanitary measure of 
the exporting Party as equivalent if the exporting Party objectively demonstrates 
that its measure achieves the importing Party's appropriate level of protection.  In 
reaching a determination of whether a sanitary or phytosanitary measure applied 
by an exporting Party achieves the importing Party's appropriate level of protection, 
those Parties shall follow the process specified in Implementing Arrangement 8.  
The Parties may add to or amend the steps in the process in the future as the 
Parties’  experience  in  regard  to  the  determination  of  equivalence  process 
increases. 
 
7-4 
  
 
4.  Where equivalence has not been recognised or where an application is 
pending, trade shall take place under the conditions required by the importing Party 
to meet its appropriate level of protection.  These conditions shall be as set out in 
Implementing  Arrangement  4  where  such  conditions  have  been  agreed.    If 
conditions have not been agreed and incorporated in Implementing Arrangement 4, 
then the conditions to be met by the exporting Party shall be those specified by the 
importing Party.  The exporting Party may agree to meet the importing Party's 
conditions,  without  affecting  the  result  of  the  process  set  out  in  Implementing 
Arrangement 8.   
 
5.  Implementing Arrangement 4 may list : 
 
(a)  those individual measures and/or groups of measures and/or systems 
applicable  to  a  sector  or  part  of  a  sector,  for  which  the  respective 
sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measures  are  recognised  as  equivalent  for 
trade purposes; 
 
(b)  actions to enable the assessment of equivalence to be completed in 
accordance with the process set out in Implementing Arrangement 8, 
and  by  the  date  indicated  in  Implementing  Arrangement  4,  or  if  not 
indicated, as specified by the importing Party; or 
 
(c)  the specific guarantees related to recognition of special status provided 
for Article 7.6(4); and 
 
(d)  may also list those sectors, or parts of sectors, for which the Parties 
apply  differing  sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measures  and  have  not 
concluded the determination provided for in Paragraph 3. 
 
6.  Unless otherwise agreed among the relevant Parties, an official sanitary or 
phytosanitary  certificate  will  be  required  for  each  consignment  of  animals  and 
animal products, plants and plant products, or other related goods intended for 
import and for which equivalence has been recognised.  The model attestation for 
such certificates will be prescribed in Implementing Arrangement 6.  The Parties 
may  jointly  determine  principles  or  guidelines  for  certification,  which  shall  be 
included in Implementing Arrangement 6.  
 
 
Article 7.8: Verification  
 
1.  In  order  to  maintain  confidence  in  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
provisions of this Chapter, each Party shall have the right to carry out audit and 
verification  of  the  procedures  of  the  exporting  Party,  which  may  include  an 
assessment of all or part of the competent authorities' total control programme, 
including, where appropriate: 
 
7-5 
  
 
(a)  reviews of the inspection and audit programmes; and  
 
(b)  on-site checks. 
 
These  procedures  shall  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Implementing Arrangement 5.    
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  also  have  the  right  to  carry  out  import  checks  for  the 
purposes of implementing sanitary and phytosanitary measures on consignments 
on importation, consistent with Article 7.9, the results of which form part of the 
verification process. 
 
3.  With the consent of the importing and exporting Parties, a Party may: 
 
(a)  share the results and conclusions of its audit and verification procedures 
and checks with non-Parties; or  
 
(b)  use the results and conclusions of the audit and verification procedures 
and checks of non-Parties.  
 
 
Article 7.9: Import Checks 
 
1.  The import checks applied to imported animals and animal products, plants 
and plant products, or other related goods shall be based on the risk associated 
with such importations.  They shall be carried out without undue delay and with a 
minimum effect on trade between the Parties. 
 
2.  The  frequencies  of  import  checks  on  such  importations  shall  be  made 
available on request and where set out in Implementing Arrangement 7 shall be 
applied  accordingly.    The  Parties  may  amend  the  frequencies,  within  their 
responsibilities, as appropriate, as a result of progress made in accordance with 
Implementing  Arrangement  4,  or  as  a  result  of  other  actions  or  consultations 
provided for in this Chapter.  
 
3.  In the event that the import checks reveal non-conformity with the relevant 
standards and/or requirements, the action taken by the importing Party should be 
based on an assessment of the risk involved.  Wherever possible, the importer or 
their representative shall be given access to the consignment and the opportunity 
to contribute any relevant information to assist the importing Party in taking a final 
decision. 
 
 
7-6 
  
 
Article 7.10: Notifications 
 
1.  The Parties shall notify each other in writing through the contacts points set 
out in Implementing Arrangement 1 of: 
 
(a)  significant changes in health status including the presence and evolution 
of diseases or pests in Implementing Arrangement 2, in a timely and  
appropriate  manner  so  as  to  ensure  continued  confidence  in  the 
competence of the Party with respect to the management of any risks of 
transmission  to  one  of  the  other  Parties  which  may  arise  as  a 
consequence; 
 
(b)  scientific findings of importance with respect to diseases or pests which 
are  not  in  Implementing  Arrangement  2  or  new  diseases  or  pests  
without delay; and 
 
(c)  any  additional  measures  beyond  the  basic  requirements  of  their 
respective  sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measures  taken  to  control  or 
eradicate diseases or pests or to protect public health, and any changes 
in preventive policies, including vaccination policies. 
 
2.  In cases of serious and immediate concern with respect to human, animal or 
plant life or health, immediate oral notification shall be made to the contact points 
and written confirmation should follow within 24 hours. 
 
3.  Where a Party has serious concerns regarding a risk to human, animal or 
plant life or health, consultations regarding the situation shall, on request, take 
place as soon as possible, and in any case within 13 days unless otherwise agreed 
between the Parties.  Each Party shall endeavour in such situations to provide all 
the information necessary to avoid a disruption in trade, and to reach a mutually 
acceptable solution. 
 
4.  Where  in  the  case  of  products  subject  to  sanitary  or  phytosanitary 
measures,  there  is  non-conformity  with  the  relevant  standards  and/or 
requirements,  the  importing  Party  shall  notify  the  exporting  Party  as  soon  as 
possible of the non-conformity as set out in Implementing Arrangement 7. 
 
 
Article 7.11: Provisional Measures 
 
Without prejudice to Article 7.10, and in particular Article 7.10(3), any Party 
may, on serious human, animal or plant life or health grounds, adopt provisional 
measures necessary for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health.  
These measures shall be notified within 24 hours to the other Parties and, on 
request, consultations regarding the situation shall be held within 13 days unless 
7-7 
  
 
otherwise  agreed  by  the  Parties.    The  Parties  shall  take  due  account  of  any 
information provided through such consultations. 
 
 
Article 7.12: Exchange of Information  
 
1.  The  Parties,  through  the  contacts  points  set  out  in  Implementing 
Arrangement 1, shall exchange information relevant to the implementation of this 
Chapter  on  a  uniform  and  systematic  basis,  to  provide  assurance,  engender 
mutual confidence and demonstrate the efficacy of the programmes controlled.  
Where  appropriate,  achievements  of  these  objectives  may  be  enhanced  by 
exchanges of officials. 
 
2.  The  information  exchange  on  changes  in  the  respective  sanitary  or 
phytosanitary measures, and other relevant information, shall include: 
 
(a)  opportunity to consider proposals for changes in regulatory standards or 
requirements  which  may  affect  this  Chapter  in  advance  of  their 
finalisation;  
 
(b)  briefing on current developments affecting trade; and 
 
(c)  information on the results of the verification procedures provided for in 
Article 7.8. 
 
3.  The  Parties  may  provide  for  the  sharing  of  scientific  papers  or  data  to 
relevant  scientific  forums  on  sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measures  and  related 
matters.   
 
 
Article 7.13: Technical Consultation 
 
1.  A  Party  may  initiate  consultations  with  another  Party  with  the  aim  of 
resolving  issues  on  the  application  of  measures  covered  in  this  Chapter  or 
interpretation of the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
2.  Where a Party requests consultations, these consultations shall take place 
as soon as practicable. 
 
3.  If a Party considers it necessary, it may request that the Committee facilitate 
such consultations.  The Committee may refer the issues to an ad hoc working 
group  for  further  discussion.    The  ad  hoc  working  group  may  make  a 
recommendation to the Committee on the resolution of the issues.  The Committee 
shall discuss the recommendation with a view to resolving the issue without undue 
delay.   
 
7-8 
  
 
4.  Such consultations are without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the 
Parties under Chapter 15 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
Article 7.14: Cooperation 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  explore  opportunities  for  further  cooperation  and 
collaboration on sanitary or phytosanitary matters of mutual interest consistent with 
the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
2.  The  Parties  acknowledge  that  the  provisions  of  Chapter  16  (Strategic 
Partnership) and its accompanying Implementing Arrangement relating to primary 
industry matters will be of relevance to the implementation of this Chapter. 
 
3.  The Parties agree to cooperate together to facilitate the implementation of 
this Chapter, and in particular the development of this Chapter’s Implementing 
Arrangements.   
 
 
7-9 
  
 
CHAPTER 8  
 
TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
 
 
Article 8.1: Definitions 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
equivalence of technical regulations means that one or more of the Parties 
accepts  that  the  technical  regulations  of  another  Party  fulfil  the  legitimate 
objectives of its own regulations; 
 
regulatory  authority  means  the  authority  that  is  responsible  for  preparing  or 
adopting  technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures applicable 
to goods;  
 
technical  regulations  also  includes  standards  that  regulatory  authorities 
recognise as meeting the mandatory requirements related to performance based 
regulation; 
 
TBT Agreement means the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, which is 
part of the WTO Agreement.  
 
2.  The definitions in Annex I of the TBT Agreement are incorporated into this 
Chapter and shall form part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis.  
 
 
Article 8.2: Objectives 
  
   The objectives of this Chapter are to increase and facilitate trade through 
furthering the implementation of the TBT Agreement and building on the work of 
APEC on standards and conformance.  Wherever possible, the Parties shall aim to 
reduce compliance costs by: 
 
(a)  eliminating unnecessary technical barriers to trade in goods among the 
Parties;  
 
(b)   enhancing  cooperation  among  the  Parties’  regulatory  agencies 
responsible  for  standards,  technical  regulations  and  conformity 
assessment procedures applicable to goods; and 
 
(c)   providing a framework to address the impact of  technical barriers to 
trade. 
 
 
8-1 
  
 
Article 8.3: Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to all standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures that may, directly or indirectly, affect the trade in goods 
among the Parties, except as provided in Paragraphs 2 and 3.  
 
2.  This  Chapter  does  not  apply  to  technical  specifications  prepared  by 
governmental entities for production or consumption requirements of such entities 
which are covered by Chapter 11 (Government Procurement). 
 
3.  This Chapter does not apply to sanitary and phytosanitary measures which 
are covered by Chapter 7 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures). 
 
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining 
technical regulations or standards, in accordance with its rights and obligations 
under  the  TBT  Agreement  necessary  to  fulfil  a  legitimate  objective  taking  into 
account  the  risks  non  fulfilment  would  create.    This  shall  include  technical 
regulations necessary to ensure its national security requirements, the prevention 
of deceptive practices, the protection of human health or safety, animal or plant life 
or health, or the environment. 
 
 
Article 8.4: Affirmation of the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
  The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each 
other under the TBT Agreement.  
 
 
Article 8.5: Origin 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to all goods traded among the Parties, regardless of 
the origin of those goods.  
 
2.  Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, a Party may give special consideration to 
goods of a non-Party through the application of a technical regulation, due to the 
need to avoid the introduction of costly surveillance procedures and as long as the 
technical regulation is compatible with the TBT Agreement.  This shall be notified 
to the other Parties through the contact points established in Article 8.11(2). 
 
 
Article 8.6: Trade Facilitation 
 
1.  The Parties shall intensify their joint work in the field of standards, technical 
regulations,  and  conformity  assessment  procedures  with  a  view  to  facilitating 
access to each other’s market.  In particular, the Parties shall seek to identify 
initiatives among them that are appropriate for particular issues or sectors.  Such 
8-2 
  
 
initiatives may include cooperation on regulatory issues, such as harmonisation or 
equivalence of technical regulations and standards, alignment with international 
standards,  reliance  on  a  supplier's  declaration  of  conformity,  and  use  of 
accreditation  to  qualify  conformity  assessment  bodies,  as  well  as  cooperation 
through mutual recognition. 
 
2.  Initiatives identified by the Parties shall be focused on the promotion of the 
use of international standards, transparency, exchange of information and reducing 
compliance costs. 
 
 
Article 8.7: International Standards 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  use  international  standards,  or  the  relevant  parts  of 
international  standards,  as  a  basis  for  their  technical  regulations  and  related 
conformity assessment procedures where relevant international standards exist or 
their completion is imminent, except when such international standards or their 
relevant parts are ineffective or inappropriate to fulfil legitimate objectives. 
 
2.  In this respect, the Parties shall apply the decision of the WTO Committee 
on Technical Barriers to Trade set out in G/TBT/1/Rev.8, 23 May 2002, Section IX 
"Decision  of  the  Committee  on  Principles  for  the  Development  of  International 
Standards, Guides and Recommendations with relation to Articles 2, 5 and Annex 
3 of the Agreement".  
 
3.  The  Parties  shall  cooperate  with  each  other,  where  appropriate,  in  the 
context of their participation in international standardising bodies to ensure that 
international standards developed within such bodies that are likely to become a 
basis for technical regulations are trade facilitating and do not create unnecessary 
obstacles to international trade. 
 
 
Article 8.8: Equivalency of Technical Regulations 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  give  positive  consideration  to  accepting  as  equivalent, 
technical regulations of another Party, even if these regulations differ from its own, 
provided that those technical regulations produce outcomes that are equivalent to 
those produced by its own technical regulations in meeting its legitimate objectives 
and achieving the same level of protection.   
 
2.  A Party shall, upon the request of another Party, explain the reasons why it 
has not accepted a technical regulation of that Party as equivalent.   
 
 
8-3 
  
 
Article 8.9: Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that a broad range of mechanisms exist to facilitate 
the acceptance of conformity assessment results, including: 
 
(a)  the importing Party’s reliance on a supplier’s declaration of conformity; 
 
(b)   unilateral  recognition  by  one  Party  of  the  results  of  conformity   
assessments performed in another Party’s territory; 
  
(c)  cooperative arrangements among conformity assessment bodies from  
each other’s territory; 
 
(d)  mutual recognition of conformity assessment procedures conducted by 
bodies located in the territory of another Party; 
 
(e)  accreditation procedures for qualifying conformity assessment bodies; 
 
(f)  government designation of conformity assessment bodies; and 
 
(g)   devising  solutions  to  increase  administrative  efficiency,  that  avoid  
duplication and are cost effective. 
 
2.  The Parties shall intensify their exchange of information on the range of 
mechanisms to facilitate the acceptance of conformity assessment results. 
 
3.  The Parties shall seek to ensure that conformity assessment procedures 
applied among them facilitate trade by ensuring that they are no more restrictive 
than  is  necessary  to  provide  an  importing  Party  with  confidence  that  products 
conform with the applicable technical regulations, taking into account the risk that 
non-conformity would create.   
 
4.  Before accepting the results of a conformity assessment procedure, and to 
enhance  confidence  in  the  continued  reliability  of  each  other’s  conformity 
assessment results, the Parties may consult on such matters as the technical 
competence of the conformity assessment bodies involved, as appropriate. 
 
5.  A Party shall, on the request of another Party, explain its reasons for not 
accepting  the  results  of  a  conformity  assessment  procedure  performed  in  the 
territory of that other Party. 
 
6.  Each  Party  shall  accredit,  approve,  license,  or  otherwise  recognise 
conformity assessment bodies in the territory of another Party on terms no less 
favourable than those it accords to conformity assessment bodies in its territory.  If 
a Party accredits, approves, licenses or otherwise recognises a body assessing 
conformity with a particular technical regulation or standard in its territory and it 
8-4 
  
 
refuses to accredit, approve, license, or otherwise recognise a body assessing 
conformity  with  that  technical  regulation  or  standard  in  the  territory  of  another 
Party, it shall, on request, explain the reasons for its refusal. 
 
7.  Where  a  Party  declines  a  request  from  another  Party  to  enter  into 
negotiations on facilitating recognition in its territory of the results of conformity 
assessment procedures conducted by bodies in the territory of either of the other 
Parties, it shall, on request, explain its reasons. 
 
 
Article 8.10: Transparency 
 
1.  In  order  to  enhance  the  opportunity  for  persons  to  provide  meaningful 
comments,  a  Party  publishing  a  notice  under  Article  2.9  or  5.6  of  the  TBT 
Agreement shall:  
 
(a)  include in the notice a statement describing the objective of the proposal 
and the rationale for the approach the Party is proposing; and 
 
(b)  transmit  the  proposal  electronically  to  the  other  Parties  through  the 
enquiry point established under Article 10 of the TBT Agreement at the 
same time as it notifies WTO Members of the proposal pursuant to the 
TBT Agreement. 
 
2.  Each  Party  should  allow  at  least  60  days  from  the  transmission  under 
Paragraph 1(b) for persons and the other Parties to make comments in writing on 
the proposal. 
 
3.  Where a Party makes a notification under Article 2.10 or 5.7 of the TBT 
Agreement, it shall at the same time transmit the notification to the other Parties, 
electronically, through the enquiry point referred to in Paragraph 1(b). 
 
 
Article 8.11: Technical Cooperation and Committee on Technical Barriers to 
Trade 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish the Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade 
(the  Committee),  which  shall  comprise  officials  from  the  contact  points  of  the 
Parties. 
 
2.  The Parties shall provide each other with the name of the governmental 
organisation that shall be their contact point and the contact details of relevant 
officials on that organisation, including telephone, fax, email and other relevant 
details.  The Parties shall notify each other promptly of any change of their contact 
points or any amendments to the details of the relevant officials. 
 
8-5 
  
 
3.  The  Committee  shall  have  the  responsibility  for  implementing  and 
monitoring the operation of this Chapter, and in particular: 
 
(a)  identifying priority sectors for enhanced cooperation; 
(b)  establishing work programmes in priority areas;  
(c)  coordinating participation in work programmes with interested persons 
and organisations in the territories of the Parties;  
(d)  monitoring the work programmes; 
(e)  addressing any issue that a Party may raise related to the development, 
adoption,  application  or  enforcement  of  technical  regulations  and 
conformity assessment procedures; 
(f)  enhancing  cooperation  in  the  development  and  improvement  of 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures; 
(g)  where appropriate, facilitating sectoral cooperation among governmental 
and  non-governmental  accreditation  agencies  and  conformity 
assessment bodies in the Parties’ territories; 
(h)  exchanging information on developments in non-governmental, regional 
and multilateral forums engaged in activities related to standardisation, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures; 
(i)  taking  any  other  steps  the  Parties  consider  will  assist  them  in 
implementing  the  TBT  Agreement  and  in  facilitating  trade  in  goods 
among them; 
(j)  reviewing  this  Chapter  in  light  of  any  developments  under  the  TBT 
Agreement, and developing recommendations for amendments to this 
Chapter in light of those developments; and  
(k)  reporting to the Commission on the implementation of this Chapter, as it 
considers appropriate. 
4.  A  Party  shall,  on  request,  give  favourable  consideration  to  any  sector-
specific proposal another Party makes for further technical cooperation under this 
Chapter. 
5.  The  Committee  shall  conduct  meetings  to  promote  and  monitor  the 
implementation and administration of this Chapter at least once a year, or more 
frequently  on  the  request  of  one  of  the  Parties,  via  teleconference,  video-
conference or any other means as mutually determined by the Parties. 
6.  Where  a  Party  takes  a  measure  to  manage  an  immediate  risk  that  it 
considers goods covered by an Annex to this Chapter may pose to health, safety 
or the environment, it shall notify the measure and the reasons for the imposition of 
the  measure  to  the  other  Parties,  with  the  time  limit  as  specified  in  the 
implementing arrangements. 
8-6 
  
 
 
 
Article 8.12: Technical Consultations 
 
1.  A Party may initiate technical consultations with another Party through the 
respective contact points with the aim of resolving any matter arising under this 
Chapter.   
2.  Unless  the  Parties  mutually  determine  otherwise,  the  Parties  shall  hold 
technical consultations within a reasonable period of time from the request for 
technical consultations by email, teleconference, video-conference, or through any 
other means, as mutually determined by the Parties.  The Parties shall, from time 
to time, stipulate in writing the length of time that they consider to be reasonable.  
3.  If a Party considers it necessary, it may request that the Committee facilitate 
such technical consultations.   
 
4.  Such  technical  consultations  are  without  prejudice  to  the  rights  and 
obligations of the Parties under Chapter 15 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
Article 8.13: Annexes and Implementing Arrangements 
 
1.  The Parties, in accordance with Chapter 17 (Administrative and Institutional 
Provisions), may conclude Annexes to this Chapter setting out agreed principles 
and  procedures  relating  to  technical  regulations  and  conformity  assessment 
applicable to trade among them.  
 
2.  The Parties, in accordance with Article 8.11, may develop Implementing 
Arrangements setting out details for the implementation of Annexes referred to in 
Paragraph  1,  or  arrangements  made  in  relation  to  any  work  programmes 
established under Article 8.11. 
 
3.  The Parties shall seek to incorporate any existing arrangements concerning 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures that are specifically 
applicable  to  trade  between  two  or  more  of  the  Parties  into  Annexes  and 
Implementing Arrangements.  
8-7 
  
 
CHAPTER 9  
 
COMPETITION POLICY 
 
Article 9.1: Objectives 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the strategic importance of creating and maintaining 
open and competitive markets that promote economic efficiency and consumer 
welfare.   
 
2.  To this end each Party is committed to reducing and removing impediments 
to trade and investment including through: 
 
(a)  application of competition statutes to all forms of commercial activity, 
including both private and public business activities; and 
 
(b)  application  of  competition  statutes  in  a  manner  that  does  not 
discriminate between or among economic entities, nor between origin 
and destination of the production. 
 
3.  The Parties recognise that anti-competitive business conduct may frustrate 
the  benefits  arising  from  this  Agreement.  The  Parties  undertake  to  apply  their 
respective competition laws in a manner consistent with this Chapter so as to avoid 
the benefits of this Agreement in terms of the liberalisation process in goods and 
services being diminished or cancelled out by anti-competitive business conduct.   
 
 
Article 9.2: Competition Law and Enforcement 
 
1.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain competition laws that proscribe anti-
competitive business conduct with the objective of promoting economic efficiency 
and consumer welfare.  
 
2.   With  a  view  to  preventing  distortions  or  restrictions  on  competition  the 
Parties  will  give  particular  attention  to  anti-competitive  agreements,  concerted 
practices or arrangements by competitors and abusive behaviour resulting from 
single or joint dominant positions in a market.  These practices refer to goods and 
services and may be carried out by any enterprise irrespective of the ownership of 
that enterprise. 
  
3.  Competition law shall apply to all commercial activities.  However, each 
Party  may  exempt  specific  measures  or  sectors  from  the  application  of  their 
general  competition  law,  provided  that  such  exemptions  are  transparent  and 
undertaken on the grounds of public policy or public interest.   Exemptions of the 
Parties as at the date of entry into force of this Agreement are set out in Annex 9.A.  
9-1 
  
 
Those exemptions shall not have the objective of negatively affecting trade among 
the Parties.  Should any Party be considering additions to its list of exemptions that 
it considers may affect trade with another Party, it will inform that Party, which may 
request consultations under Article 9.5.  The Commission shall implement any 
additions  to  or  removals  from  the  list  of  exemptions  through  an  Implementing 
Arrangement.  
 
4.  Each Party shall establish or maintain a competition authority responsible for 
the enforcement of its measures to proscribe anti-competitive business conduct.  
The enforcement policy of each Party’s competition authority shall not discriminate 
on the basis of the nationality of the subjects of their proceedings to the extent that 
they carry on a business within the territory of that Party. 
 
5.  Each Party shall ensure that a person subject to the imposition of a sanction 
or remedy for violation of competition laws is provided with the opportunity to be 
heard and present evidence, and to seek review of such a sanction or remedy in a 
domestic court or independent tribunal. 
 
 
Article 9.3: Cooperation 
 
1.   The Parties agree to cooperate and coordinate in the area of competition 
policy by exchanging information on the development of competition policy.  The 
Parties also recognise the importance of cooperation and coordination between 
their  respective  competition  authorities  to  further  effective  competition  law 
enforcement  in  their  respective  jurisdictions.    Accordingly,  the  Parties  shall 
cooperate  on  issues  of  competition  law  enforcement,  including  notification, 
consultation and exchanges of information. 
 
2.  The  Parties  through  their  respective  competition  authorities  will  seek  a 
cooperation agreement after the date of the entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
 
Article 9.4: Notifications 
 
1.  Each Party shall notify the other Parties of an enforcement activity regarding 
an anti-competitive business conduct if it: 
 
(a)  considers that the enforcement activity is liable to substantially affect 
another Party's important interests;  
 
(b)  relates to restrictions on competition which are liable to have a direct 
and substantial effect in the territory of another Party; or 
 
(c)  concerns anti-competitive acts taking place principally in the territory of 
another Party. 
9-2 
  
 
 
2.   Notification shall take place at an early stage of the procedure, provided that 
this  is  not  contrary  to  the  Parties’  competition  laws  and  does  not  affect  any 
investigation being carried out.  
 
 
Article 9.5: Consultations and Exchange of Information 
 
1.  At the request of any Party, the Parties shall consult on any issue adversely 
affecting the competitive interests for trade or investment among them within the 
objectives of this Chapter. 
 
2.  Information or documents exchanged between the Parties in relation to any 
consultation conducted pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be kept 
confidential.  No Party shall, except to comply with its domestic legal requirements, 
release  or  disclose  such  information  or  documents  to  any  person  without  the 
written consent of the Party that provided such information or documents.  Where 
the disclosure of such information or documents is necessary to comply with the 
domestic legal requirements of a Party, that Party shall notify the other Parties 
before such disclosure is made.  The Parties may agree to the public release of 
information that they do not consider confidential.  
 
 
Article  9.6:  Public  enterprises  and  enterprises  entrusted  with  special  or 
exclusive rights, including designated monopolies 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter prevents a Party from designating or maintaining 
public or private monopolies according to their respective laws.  
 
2.  With  regard  to  public  enterprises  and  enterprises  to  which  special  or 
exclusive rights have been granted, the Parties shall ensure that, following the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement, no measure is adopted or maintained that 
distorts trade in goods or services among the Parties, which is contrary to this 
Agreement and contrary to the Parties’ interests, and that such enterprises shall be 
subject to the rules of competition insofar as the application of such rules does not 
obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular tasks assigned to them.  
 
 
Article 9.7: Dispute Settlement  
 
1.   Nothing in this Chapter permits a Party to challenge any decision made by a 
competition authority of another Party in enforcing the applicable competition laws 
and regulations. 
 
2.  No Party shall have recourse to any dispute settlement procedures under 
this Agreement for any issue arising from or relating to this Chapter. 
9-3 
  
 
Annex 9.A 
 
 
This  Annex  lists  exemptions  from  the  application  of  competition  law  to  all 
commercial  activities  in  accordance  with  Article  9.2  and  which  may  affect  the 
benefits arising from this Agreement.  It does not include exemptions from the 
application of competition law that are within the scope of other Chapters of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
New Zealand 
 
Specific exemptions from New Zealand Commerce Act 
 
Pharmaceuticals subsidies by Pharmac (Section 53 of New Zealand Public Health 
and Disability Act 2000) – The Act exempts certain agreements relating to the 
purchase and subsidising of pharmaceuticals from Part II of the Commerce Act 
(restrictive trade practices).  
 
Export  arrangements  (Section  44(1)(g))  -  "Export  arrangements"  that  relate 
exclusively to the export of goods from New Zealand or exclusively to the supply of 
services wholly outside New Zealand are exempt from the Commerce Act (Part II 
on restrictive trade practices), under conditions of due notification to the Commerce 
Commission.  
 
Agricultural Producer Boards – Limited exemptions from Part II of the Commerce 
Act (restrictive trade practices) are contained in the Meat Board Act 2004 and the 
Pork  Industry  Board  Act  1997.    These  exemptions  relate  to  arrangements  for 
setting levies by the Boards for the purpose of funding their industry-good activities 
(e.g.  market  promotion  and  research).    In  the  case  of  the  Meat  Board,  the 
exemption  extends  to  the  Board’s  administration  of  export  tariff  quota 
arrangements. 
 
 
 
Singapore 
 
1.  Provision of ordinary letter and postcard services by licensed and regulated 
entities. 
 
2.  Supply of piped potable water. 
 
3.  Supply  of  wastewater  management  services,  including  the  collection, 
treatment and disposal of wastewater. 
 
4.  Public Transport: 
9-4 
  
 
a.  Supply  of  scheduled  bus  services  by  any  person  licensed  and 
regulated under the Public Transport Council Act (Cap. 259B); 
b.  Supply of rail services by any person licensed and regulated under 
the Rapid Transit Systems Act (Cap. 263A). 
 
5.  Cargo terminal operations by a person licensed and regulated under the 
Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 170A). 
 
6.  Clearing and exchanging of articles undertaken by the Automated Clearing 
House (ACH) established under the Banking (Clearing House) Regulations 
(Cap.  19,  Rg  1),  and  activities  of  the  Singapore  Clearing  Houses 
Association (SCHA) in relation to its activities regarding the ACH. 
 
7.  Mergers and acquisitions (M&As) approved under any written law or any 
code of practice issued under any written law relating to competition, and 
M&As relating to any of the above activities/sectors. 
9-5 
  
 
CHAPTER 10  
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  
 
 
Article 10.1: Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
TRIPS Agreement means the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual 
Property Rights, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
Intellectual property refers to all categories of intellectual property that are the 
subject  of  Sections  1  through  7  of  Part  II  of  the  TRIPS  Agreement  namely: 
copyright  and  related  rights;  trade  marks;  geographical  indications;  industrial 
designs; patents; layout designs (topographies) of integrated circuits; protection of 
undisclosed information.1   
 
 
Article 10.2: Intellectual Property Principles 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the importance of intellectual property in promoting 
economic  and  social  development,  particularly  in  the  new  digital  economy, 
technological innovation and trade. 
 
2.  The Parties recognise the need to achieve a balance between the rights of 
right holders and the legitimate interests of users and the community with regard to 
protected subject matter. 
 
3.  The Parties are committed to the maintenance of intellectual property rights 
regimes and systems that seek to: 
 
(a)  facilitate international trade, economic and social development through 
the dissemination of ideas, technology and creative works;  
 
(b)  provide certainty for right-holders and users of intellectual property over 
the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights; and  
 
(c)  facilitate the enforcement of intellectual property rights with the view, 
inter  alia,  to  eliminate  trade  in  goods  infringing  intellectual  property 
rights. 
 
                                                           
1  For the purpose of this Chapter “intellectual property” also includes the protection of plant 
varieties. 
10-1 
  
 
 
Article 10.3: General Provisions 
 
1.  The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each 
other under the TRIPS Agreement and any other multilateral agreement relating to 
intellectual property to which they are party.  To this end, nothing in this Chapter 
shall derogate from existing rights and obligations that Parties have to each other 
under the TRIPS Agreement or other multilateral intellectual property agreements. 
 
2.  Nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  prevent  a  Party  from adopting  appropriate 
measures to prevent the abuse of intellectual property rights by right holders or the 
resort  to  practices  that  unreasonably  restrain  trade  or  adversely  affect  the 
international transfer of technology, provided that such measures are consistent 
with this Agreement.  In particular, nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party 
from adopting measures necessary to prevent anti-competitive practices that may 
result from the abuse of intellectual property rights. 
 
3.  Subject to each Party’s international obligations the Parties affirm that they 
may: 
 
(a)  provide for the international exhaustion of intellectual property rights;  
 
(b)  establish that provisions in standard form non-negotiated licenses for 
products do not prevent consumers from exercising the limitations and 
exceptions recognised in domestic intellectual property laws;  
 
(c)  establish provisions to facilitate the exercise of permitted acts where 
technological measures have been applied; and 
 
(d)  establish appropriate measures to protect traditional knowledge. 
 
4.  The Parties shall provide for reproduction rights and communication to the 
public rights to copyright owners and phonogram producers that are consistent with 
the World Intellectual Property Organization Copyright Treaty (WCT) and the World 
Intellectual Property Organization Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT).  
The Parties shall provide performers' rights consistent with the TRIPS Agreement.  
The Parties may establish limitations and exceptions in their domestic laws as 
acceptable under the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic 
Works (1971), the TRIPS Agreement, the WCT and the WPPT. These provisions 
shall be understood to permit Parties to devise new exceptions and limitations that 
are appropriate in the digital environment. 
  
5.  Subject to their obligations under the TRIPS Agreement, each Party may 
limit the rights of the performers and producers of phonograms and broadcasting 
entities  of  the  other  Party  to  the  rights  its  persons  are  accorded  within  the 
jurisdiction of the other Party. 
10-2 
  
 
 
 
Article 10.4: Trade Marks 
 
1.  Each Party shall afford an opportunity for interested parties to oppose the 
application of a trade mark and request cancellation of a registered trade mark. 
 
2.  In relation to trade marks, Parties are encouraged to classify goods and 
services  according  to  the  classification  of  the  Nice  Agreement  Concerning  the 
International  Classification  of  Goods  and  Services  for  the  Purposes  of  the 
Registration of Marks (1979). 
 
 
Article 10.5: Geographical Indications 
 
1.  The terms listed in Annex 10.A are recognised as geographical indications 
for wines and spirits in the respective Party, within the meaning of paragraph 1 of 
Article 22 of the TRIPS Agreement.  Subject to domestic laws,2 in a manner that is 
consistent  with  the  TRIPS  Agreement,  such  terms  will  be  protected  as 
geographical indications in the territories of the other Parties.  
 
2.  At the request of a Party, the Commission may decide to add or remove 
geographical indications from Annex 10.A. 
  
 
Article 10.6: Country Names 
 
  The Parties shall provide the legal means for interested parties to prevent 
commercial use of country names of the Parties in relation to goods in a manner 
which misleads consumers as to the origin of such goods. 
 
 
Article 10.7: Cooperation 
 
The  Parties  agree  to  cooperate,  consistent  with  the  principles  set  out  in 
Article 10.2.  Such cooperation may include, inter alia: 
 
(a)  the  notification  of  contact  points  for  the  enforcement  of  intellectual 
property rights; 
 
(b)  exchange of information relating to developments in intellectual property 
policy in their respective agencies.  Such developments may include, 
                                                           
2 For greater certainty, the Parties acknowledge that geographical indications will be recognised and 
protected in Brunei Darussalam, Chile, New Zealand and Singapore only to the extent permitted by 
and according to the terms and conditions set out in their respective domestic laws. 
 
10-3 
  
 
but are not limited to, the implementation of appropriate limitations and 
exceptions under copyright law and the implementation of measures 
concerning  the  appropriate  protection  of  digital  rights  management 
information; 
 
(c)  exchange of information on the implementation of intellectual property 
systems,  aimed  at  promoting  the  efficient  registration  of  intellectual 
property rights; 
 
(d)  promotion of the development of contacts and cooperation among their 
respective  agencies,  including  enforcement  agencies,  educational 
institutions  and  other  organisations  with  an  interest  in  the  field  of 
intellectual property rights; 
 
(e)  policy dialogue on initiatives on intellectual property in multilateral and 
regional forums;  
 
(f)  exchange of information and cooperation on appropriate initiatives to 
promote awareness of intellectual property rights and systems; and  
 
(g)  such  other  activities  and  initiatives  as  may  be  mutually  determined 
among the Parties. 
 
10-4 
  
 
 
Annex 10.A 
 
Lists of Geographical Indications 
 
List of Geographical Indications from Chile 
 
 
 WINES  Name of Appellation 
   
   Valle de Aconcagua  
   Alhué 
   Valle del Bío Bío  
   Buin  
   Valle del Cachapoal  
   Valle de Casablanca  
   Cauquenes 
   Chillán  
   Chimbarongo 
   Valle del Choapa  
   Coelemu  
   Valle de Colchagua  
   Valle de Copiapó  
   Valle de Curicó  
   Region de Aconcagua  
   Region de Atacama  
   Region de Coquimbo  
   Valle del Claro  
   Region del Sur  
   Region del Valle Central  
   Valle del Elqui  
   Valle del Huasco  
   Illapel 
   Isla de Maipo 
   Valle del Itata  
   Valle de Leyda  
   Valle del Limarí  
   Linares  
   Valle del Loncomilla  
   Valle del Lontué  
   Lolol 
   Valle del Maipo  
   Maria Pinto 
   Valle del Marga-Marga  
   Valle del Maule  
   Marchigue 
   Valle del Malleco  
   Melipilla 
   Molina  
   Monte Patria 
   Mulchén  
   Nancagua  
10-5 
  
 
   Ovalle 
   Paiguano 
  Pajarete 
   Palmilla 
   Panquehue 
   Parral  
   Pencahue 
   Peralillo 
   Peumo  
   Pirque 
   Portezuelo  
   Puente Alto 
   Punitaqui 
   Quillón 
   Rancagua  
   Valle del Rapel  
   Rauco 
   Rengo  
   Requínoa 
   Río Hurtado 
   Romeral  
   Sagrada Familia 
   Valle de San Antonio  
   San Juan 
   Salamanca 
   San Clemente 
   San Fernando 
   San Javier 
   San Rafael 
   Santa Cruz  
   Santiago  
   Talagante  
   Talca  
   Valle del Teno  
   Valle delTutuvén  
   Traiguén 
   Vicuña 
   Villa Alegre 
  Vino Asoleado 
   Yumbel  
 
        
SPIRITS  Name of Apellation  Country 
 
   Pisco  Chile 
 
 
10-6 
  
 
CHAPTER 11  
 
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
 
 
Article 11.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
build-operate-transfer contract and public works concession contract mean 
any contractual arrangement the primary purpose of which is to provide for the 
construction or rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, plant, buildings, facilities or 
other government-owned works and under which, as consideration for a supplier's 
execution of a contractual arrangement, the entity grants to the supplier, for a 
specified period of time, temporary ownership or a right to control and operate, and 
demand payment for the use of such works for the duration of the contract; 
 
entity means an entity listed in Annex 11.A; 
 
government procurement or procurement means the process by which entities 
purchase goods and services;  
 
measures  relating  to  government  procurement  means  any  law,  regulation, 
policy, or procedure of general application relating to government procurement; 
 
offsets means conditions used to encouraged local development or improve the 
balance  of  payments  accounts  by  means  of  domestic  content,  licensing  of 
technology, investment requirements, counter-trade or similar requirements; 
 
publish means to disseminate information in an electronic or paper medium that is 
distributed widely and is readily accessible to the general public;  
 
supplier means a natural or legal person of a Party that provides or could provide 
goods or services to an entity; 
 
technical specification means a tendering requirement that: 
 
(a)  sets out the characteristics of: 
 
(i)  goods to be procured, such as quality, performance, safety and 
dimensions, or the process and methods for their production, or 
 
(ii)  services to be procured, or the processes or methods for their 
provision, including any applicable administrative provisions;  
 
11-1 
  
 
(b)  addresses  terminology,  symbols,  packaging,  marking  or  labelling 
requirements, as they apply to a good or service; or 
 
(c)  sets out conformity assessment procedures prescribed by an entity. 
 
 
Article 11.2: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to recognise the importance of conducting 
government  procurement  in  accordance  with  the  fundamental  principles  of 
transparency,  value  for  money,  open  and  effective  competition,  fair  dealing, 
accountability and due process, and non-discrimination.  
 
 
Article 11.3: Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating 
to government procurement by any contractual means, including purchase and 
rental or lease, with or without an option to buy, build-operate-transfer contracts 
and public works concessions contracts: 
 
(a)  by entities listed in Annex 11.A, and their successors other than those 
subsequently corporatised, commercialised or privatised;  
 
(b)  in which the contract has a value not less than the relevant threshold 
converted into respective currencies as set out in Annex 11.C;  and 
 
(c)  subject to any other conditions specified in the Annexes. 
 
2.  This Chapter does not apply to: 
 
(a)  the purchase or acquisition of goods and services by an entity of a Party 
from another entity of that Party, except where tenders are called, in 
which case this Chapter shall apply;  
 
(b)  non-contractual agreements, or any form of assistance to persons or 
governmental  authorities,  including  foreign  assistance,  grants,  loans, 
equity  infusions,  fiscal  incentives,  subsidies,  guarantees,  cooperative 
agreements, sponsorship arrangements and governmental provision of 
goods and services;  
 
(c)  purchases  funded  by  international  grants,  loans  or  other  assistance, 
where  the  provision  of  such  assistance  is  subject  to  conditions 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter; 
 
11-2 
  
 
(d)  procurement of goods and services (including construction) outside the 
territory of the procuring Party, for consumption outside the territory of 
the procuring Party; 
 
(e)  acquisition  of  fiscal  agency  or  depository  services,  liquidation  and 
management services for regulated financial institutions, and sale and 
distribution services for government debt; or 
 
(f)  hiring of government employees or other long-term staff and personnel, 
and related employment measures. 
 
3.   Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  entities  shall  not  prepare,  design  or 
otherwise structure or divide, at any stage of the procurement, any procurement in 
order to avoid the obligations of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 11.4: National Treatment and Non-Discrimination 
 
1.  With respect to any measures regarding government procurement covered 
by this Chapter, each Party shall grant to goods, services and suppliers of the 
other Parties treatment no less favourable than that accorded by it to domestic 
goods, services and suppliers. 
 
2.  With respect to any measures regarding government procurement covered 
by this Chapter, no Party shall allow its entities to: 
 
(a)  treat a locally established supplier less favourably than another locally 
established supplier on the basis of the degree of foreign affiliation to, or 
ownership by a person of, another Party; or 
 
(b)  discriminate against a locally established supplier on the basis that the 
goods  or  services  offered  by  that  supplier  are  goods  or  services  of 
another Party. 
 
3.    A Party shall not discriminate in favour of any enterprise, whether or not the 
Party is a shareholder in that enterprise.    
 
4.  This Article shall not apply to measures concerning customs duties and 
charges of any kind imposed on or in connection with importation, the method of 
levying such duties and charges, other import regulations, or to measures affecting 
trade in services other than measures specifically governing procurement covered 
by this Chapter.  
 
 
11-3 
  
 
Article 11.5: Rules of Origin 
 
For the sole purpose of determining customs duties applicable to goods 
imported  for  purposes  of  government  procurement,  the  Parties  shall  apply  the 
same  rules  of  origin  that  are  used  to  determine  customs  duties  applicable  to 
imports of goods for other purposes.  
 
 
Article 11.6: Prohibition of Offsets 
 
Each Party shall ensure that its entities do not consider, seek or impose 
offsets at any stage of a procurement.  
 
 
Article 11.7: Non-Disclosure of Information 
 
1.  The Parties, their entities and their review authorities shall not, except to the 
extent  required  by  law,  disclose  confidential  information  that  would  prejudice 
legitimate  commercial  interests  of  a  particular  supplier  or  might  prejudice  fair 
competition between suppliers without the written authorisation of the supplier that 
provided the information.    
 
2.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as requiring a Party or its entities 
to  disclose  confidential  information  the  disclosure  of  which  would  impede  law 
enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public interest.  
 
 
Article 11.8: Publication of Information on Procurement Measures 
 
Each Party shall promptly publish:    
 
(a)  its  measures  relating  to  government  procurement  covered  by  this 
Chapter; and 
 
(b)  any modifications to such measures in the same manner as the original 
publication.  
 
 
Article 11.9: Technical Specifications  
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that its entities do not prepare, adopt or apply any 
technical  specification  with  the  purpose  or  the  effect  of  creating  unnecessary 
obstacles to trade among the Parties.  
 
2.  Any technical specifications prescribed by an entity shall, where appropriate: 
 
11-4 
  
 
(a)  be specified in terms of performance and functional requirements, rather 
than design or descriptive characteristics; and 
 
(b)  be based on international standards, where applicable, or otherwise on 
national technical regulations, recognised national standards, or building 
codes.  
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  entities  do  not  prescribe  technical 
specifications that require or refer to a particular trademark or trade name, patent, 
design or type, specific origin or producer or supplier, unless there is no sufficiently 
precise or intelligible way of describing the procurement requirements and provided 
that,  in  such  cases,  words  such  as  "or  equivalent"  are  included  in  the  tender 
documentation. 
 
4.  Each Party shall ensure that an entity shall not seek or accept advice to be 
used in the preparation or adoption of any technical specification for a specific 
procurement  from  a  person  that  may  have  a  commercial  interest  in  that 
procurement, if to do so would prejudice fair competition.  
 
 
Article 11.10: Valuation of Contracts  
 
In calculating the value of contracts for the purposes of implementing this 
Chapter entities shall base their valuation on the maximum total estimated value of 
the procurement over its entire duration including optional purchases, premiums, 
fees, commissions, interests and revenue streams or other forms of remuneration 
provided for in such contracts. 
 
 
Article 11.11: Tendering Procedures 
 
  Except as provided for in Article 11.18 entities shall award contracts by 
means  of  open  tendering  procedures,  in  the  course  of  which  any  interested 
supplier may submit a tender or apply to meet conditions for participation in a 
procurement.1 
 
 
Article 11.12: Notice of Intended Procurement 
 
1.  For  each  procurement  covered  by  this  Chapter,  entities  shall  publish  in 
advance a notice of intended procurement inviting interested suppliers to submit a 
                                                           
1 The Parties understand that further procurements under contracts, which are awarded consistently 
with this Chapter, in particular Article 11.10, that provide that goods and services will be available to 
entities on the same terms and conditions as the original contract are considered consistent with 
this Chapter. 
11-5 
  
 
tender or apply to meet conditions for participation in the procurement, except as 
provided for in Article 11.18. 
 
2.  The  information  in  each  notice  of  intended  procurement  shall  include  a 
description of the intended procurement; any conditions that suppliers must fulfil to 
participate in the procurement, including the time limits for submission of tenders; 
and contact details for obtaining of all relevant documents.   
 
3.  Entities shall publish the notices in a timely manner through means which 
offer the widest possible and non-discriminatory access to the interested suppliers 
of the Parties.  These means shall be accessible free of charge, during the entire 
period  established  for  tendering,  through  a  single  electronic  point  of  access 
specified in Annex 11.B. 
 
4.  Where an entity, during the course of a procurement, modifies the criteria 
referred to in the notice of intended procurement, it shall publish or transmit all 
such modifications in writing: 
 
(a)  to all suppliers that are participating in the procurement at the time the 
criteria are modified, if the identities of such suppliers are known, and in 
all other cases, in the same manner as the original information was 
transmitted; and 
 
(b)  in adequate time to allow such suppliers to modify and resubmit their 
tenders, as appropriate. 
 
5.  Each notice of intended procurement under Paragraph 1 shall be published 
sufficiently  in  advance  to  provide  interested  suppliers  of  all  Parties  with  a 
reasonable period of time in light of the nature, circumstances and complexity of 
the procurement, to obtain the full tender documentation and to prepare and submit 
responsive  tenders  by  the  closing  date,  or  to  apply  for  participation  in  the 
procurement where applicable. 
 
6.  Notwithstanding Paragraph 5, entities shall provide no less than 10 days 
between the date on which the notice of intended procurement is published and the 
final date for the submission of tenders. 
 
 
Article 11.13: Tender Documentation 
 
1.  Tender documentation provided to suppliers shall contain all information 
necessary to permit them to prepare and submit responsive tenders, including the 
essential requirements and evaluation criteria for the award of the procurement 
contract.   
 
11-6 
  
 
2.  Where contracting entities do not offer direct access to the entire tender 
documents  and  any  supporting  documents  by  electronic  means,  entities  shall 
promptly make available the tender documentation at the request of any supplier of 
the Parties. 
 
3.  An entity shall endeavour to reply promptly to any reasonable request for 
explanation  or  relevant  information  made  by  a  supplier,  provided  that  such 
information does not give that supplier an advantage over its competitors in the 
procedure for the award of the contract.  The explanation or information provided to 
a supplier may be provided to all suppliers that are invited to tender. 
 
4.  Where an entity, during the course of a procurement, modifies the essential 
requirements and evaluation criteria of the tender documentation, it shall publish or 
transmit all such modifications in writing: 
 
(a)  to all suppliers who have requested tender documentation at the time 
the  criteria  are  modified,  and  in  the  same  manner  the  original 
information was transmitted; and 
 
(b)  in adequate time to allow such suppliers to modify and resubmit their 
tenders, as appropriate.   
  
 
Article 11.14: Awarding of Contracts 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  ensure  that  its  entities  receive,  open  and  evaluate  all 
tenders  under  procedures  that  guarantee  the  fairness  and  impartiality  of  the 
procurement process.   
 
2.  To be considered for award, a tender must, at the time of opening, conform 
to  the  essential  requirements  of  the  notice  of  intended  procurement  or  tender 
documentation and be submitted by a supplier who complies with the conditions for 
participation.   
 
3.  Unless an entity determines that it is not in the public interest to award a 
contract, it shall award the contract to the supplier that has been determined to be 
fully capable of undertaking the contract and whose tender is determined to offer 
the best value for money or be the most advantageous in terms of the essential 
requirements and evaluation criteria set forth in the tender documentation. 
 
4.  An  entity  shall  not  cancel  a  procurement  covered  by  this  Chapter,  or 
terminate or modify awarded contracts in order to circumvent the requirements of 
this Chapter.   
 
 
11-7 
  
 
Article 11.15: Post-Award Information 
  
1.  Entities shall promptly publish or inform suppliers that have submitted a 
tender of the contract award decision. 
 
2.  Entities shall, on request from an unsuccessful supplier, promptly provide 
pertinent  information  concerning  reasons  for  the  rejection  of  its  tender  or  the 
relative advantages of the tender the entity selected. 
  
3.  Entities  shall,  promptly  after  the  award  of  a  contract  for  a  procurement 
covered  by  this  Chapter,  publish  a  notice  containing  at  least  the  following 
information: 
 
(a)  the name and address of the successful supplier; 
 
(b)  a description of the goods or services supplied; and 
 
(c)  the value of the contract award. 
 
 
Article 11.16: Conditions for Participation 
 
1.  Where an entity requires suppliers to satisfy registration, qualification, or any 
other conditions before being permitted to participate in a procurement, each Party 
shall ensure that a notice inviting suppliers to apply for registration, qualification or 
demonstration of the suppliers' satisfaction of any other conditions for participation 
is published sufficiently in advance for interested suppliers to prepare and submit 
responsive applications and for entities to evaluate and make their determinations 
based on such applications. 
 
2.  Entities  shall  consider  for  a  particular  procurement  those  suppliers  of 
another Party that request to participate in the procurement and that are not yet 
registered or qualified, provided there is sufficient time to complete the registration 
or qualification procedures before the award of the contract. 
 
3.  Any  conditions  for  participation  in  the  procurement,  including  financial 
guarantees, technical qualifications and information necessary for establishing the 
financial, commercial and technical capacity of suppliers, as well as the verification 
of qualifications, shall be limited to those which are essential to ensure the firm's 
capability to fulfil the contract in question.  The financial, commercial and technical 
capacity of a supplier shall be judged both on the basis of that supplier's global 
business activity and its activity in the territory of the procuring entity, taking due 
account of the legal relationship between the supply organisations. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Article shall preclude an entity from excluding a supplier from 
a procurement on grounds such as bankruptcy, liquidation or insolvency, false 
11-8 
  
 
declarations relating to a procurement, or significant deficiency in the performance 
of any obligation under a prior contract. 
 
 
Article 11.17: Lists of Registered or Qualified Suppliers 
 
1.  An entity may establish for continuing use a list of suppliers registered or 
qualified to participate in procurements.  A current updated list of registered or 
qualified suppliers shall be publicly available.  The entity shall ensure that suppliers 
may apply for participation in the list of registered or qualified suppliers at any time, 
and that all qualifying applicants are included within a reasonable period of time, 
taking into account the conditions for participation and the need for verification.  
Where an entity requires suppliers to qualify for such a list before being permitted 
to participate in a procurement, and a supplier that has not previously satisfied 
such requirements or conditions submits an application, the entity shall promptly 
start the registration or qualification procedures and shall allow such supplier to 
participate in the procurement, provided there is sufficient time to complete the 
registration or procurement procedures within the time period established for the 
award. 
 
2.  The entity shall publish annually or otherwise make available continuously in 
electronic form a notice inviting interested suppliers to apply for inclusion on the 
list.  The notice shall include: 
 
(a)  a description of the goods and services for which the  list of suppliers 
may be used; and 
 
(b)  the conditions to be satisfied by suppliers for inclusion on  the list of 
registered or qualified suppliers. 
 
3.  Entities  shall  notify  qualified  suppliers  of  the  termination  of,  or  of  their 
removal from a list of registered or qualified suppliers and state the reason for this 
action. 
 
 
Article 11.18: Exceptions to Open Tendering 
  
1.  Provided that the tendering procedure is not used to avoid competition or to 
protect domestic suppliers, entities may award contracts by means other than open 
tendering procedures in any of the following circumstances: 
 
(a)  where, in response to a prior notice, invitation to participate, or invitation 
to tender under open tendering procedures 
 
(i)  no tenders were submitted, 
 
11-9 
  
 
(ii)  no  tenders  were  submitted  that  conform  to  the  essential 
requirements in the tender documentation, or 
 
(iii)  no suppliers satisfied the conditions for participation, and 
 
the entity does not substantially modify the essential requirements of the 
procurement in the contract as awarded; 
 
(b)  where, for works of art, or for reasons connected with the protection of 
exclusive rights, such as patents or copyrights, or where there is an 
absence of competition for technical reasons, the goods or services can 
be supplied only by a particular supplier and no reasonable alternative 
or substitute exists; 
 
(c)  for additional deliveries by the original supplier which are intended either 
as replacement parts, extensions or continuing services for or upgrades 
of  existing  equipment,  software,  services  or  installations,  where  a 
change of supplier would compel the procuring entity to procure goods 
or services not meeting requirements of interchangeability with existing 
equipment,  software,  services  or  installations,  or  conditions  under 
original supplier warranties;  
  
(d)  for goods purchased on a commodity market; 
 
(e)  when an entity procures a prototype or a first good or service that is 
developed at its request in the course of, and for, a particular contract 
for research, experiment, study or original development.  When such 
contracts have been fulfilled, subsequent procurements of such goods 
or services shall be subject to the principles and procedures laid down in 
this Chapter; 
 
(f)  when additional construction services which were not included in the 
initial contract but which were within the objectives of the original tender 
documentation  have,  due  to  unforeseeable  circumstances,  become 
necessary  to  complete  the  construction  services  described  therein, 
provided  that  the  total  value  of  contracts  awarded  for  additional 
construction services does not exceed 50 percent of the amount of the 
main contract; 
 
(g)  in so far as it is strictly necessary where, for reasons of extreme urgency 
brought  about  by  events  unforeseeable  by  the  entity,  the  goods  or 
services could not be obtained in time by means of an open tendering 
procedure, and the use of such procedure would result in serious injury 
to the entity, the entity's programme responsibilities or the Party.  For 
purposes of this Subparagraph, lack of advance planning by an entity or 
11-10 
  
 
its  concerns  relating  to  the  amount  of  funds  available  to  it  do  not 
constitute unforeseeable events; 
 
(h)  for purchases made under exceptionally advantageous conditions that 
only arise in the very short term, including public auction or unusual 
disposals,  such  as  those  resulting  from  liquidation,  bankruptcy  or 
receivership.  This provision is not intended to cover routine purchases 
from regular suppliers; or 
  
(i)  in the case of a contract awarded to the winner of a design contest 
provided that the contest has been organised in a manner which is 
consistent with the principles of this Chapter and that the contest is 
judged by an independent jury with a view to a design contract being 
awarded to the winner.  
 
2.  The Parties shall ensure that, whenever it is necessary for entities to resort 
to a procedure other than open tendering procedures based on the circumstances 
set forth in Paragraph 1, the entities shall maintain a record or prepare a written 
report providing specific justification for the contract.   
 
 
Article 11.19: Ensuring Integrity in Procurement Practices 
 
Each Party shall ensure that criminal or administrative penalties exist to 
address corruption in its government procurement, and that its entities have in 
place policies and procedures to eliminate any potential conflict of interest on the 
part of those engaged in or having influence over a procurement. 
 
 
Article 11.20: Domestic Review of Supplier Complaints   
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  entities  accord  impartial  and  timely 
consideration to any complaints from suppliers regarding an alleged breach of 
measures implementing this Chapter arising in the context of a procurement in 
which  they  have,  or  have  had,  an  interest.    Where  appropriate,  a  Party  may 
encourage suppliers to seek clarification from its entities with a view to facilitating 
the resolution of any such complaints.   
  
2.  Each Party shall provide suppliers of any one of the other Parties with non-
discriminatory,  timely,  transparent  and  effective  access  to  an  administrative  or 
judicial body competent to hear or review complaints of alleged breaches of the 
procuring  Party’s  laws,  regulations,  procedures  and  practices  regarding 
procurement in the context of procurements in which they have, or have had, an 
interest. 
 
 
11-11 
  
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  make  information  on  complaint  mechanisms  generally 
available. 
 
4.  Compensation for any breach of measures implementing this Chapter may 
be limited to the costs for tender preparation reasonably incurred by the supplier 
for the purpose of the procurement. 
 
 
Article  11.21:  Encouraging  Use  of  Electronic  Communications  in 
Procurement 
 
1.  The Parties shall seek to provide opportunities for government procurement 
to  be  undertaken  through  the  Internet  or  a  comparable  computer-based 
telecommunications network. 
 
2.  In order to facilitate commercial opportunities for their suppliers under this 
Chapter,  each  Party  shall  maintain  a  single  electronic  portal  for  access,  to 
comprehensive information on government procurement supply opportunities in its 
territory, and information on measures relating to government procurement shall be 
available.   The contact point or points from whom suppliers can obtain information 
on government procurement shall either be specified in Annex 11.B, or be set out 
in the information on the single electronic portal. 
 
3.  The Parties shall encourage, to the extent possible, the use of electronic 
means for the provision of tender documents and receipt of tenders. 
 
4.  The Parties shall endeavour to ensure policies and procedures for the use 
of electronic means in procurement are adopted that:  
 
(a)  protect documentation from unauthorised and undetected alteration; and   
 
(b)  provide appropriate levels of security for data on, and passing through, 
the procuring entity’s network. 
 
5.  Each Party shall encourage its entities to publish as early as possible in the 
fiscal year information regarding the entities' indicative procurement plans in the 
electronic portal referred to in Paragraph 2. 
 
 
Article 11.22: Exceptions 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any Party from taking 
any action or not disclosing any information which it considers necessary for the 
protection of its essential security interests relating to the procurement of arms, 
ammunition or war materials, or to procurement indispensable for national security 
or for national defence purposes. 
11-12 
  
 
  
2.  Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner 
that would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between 
Parties  where  the  same  conditions  prevail  or  a  disguised  restriction  on  trade 
between the Parties, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party 
from adopting or maintaining measures: 
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals, order, or safety; 
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to protect intellectual property; or 
 
(d)  relating to goods or services of handicapped persons, of philanthropic or 
not for profit institutions, or of prison labour. 
  
3.  The  Parties  understand  that  Subparagraph  2(b)  includes  environmental 
measures necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health. 
 
 
Article 11.23: Modifications and Rectifications of Annexes  
 
1.   A  Party  may  modify  its  coverage  under  this  Chapter  in  conformity  with 
Article 17.2 (Functions of the Commission), provided that it: 
 
(a)  notifies the other Parties of the modification; and 
 
(b)  provides the other Parties, within 30 days following the date of such 
notification, appropriate compensatory adjustments to its coverage in 
order to maintain a level of coverage comparable to that existing prior to 
the modification. 
 
2.   Notwithstanding Subparagraph 1(b), no compensatory adjustments shall be 
provided to the other Parties where the modification by a Party of its coverage 
under this Chapter concerns: 
 
(a)  the situation where the business or commercial operations or functions 
of any of its entities or part thereof are constituted or established as an 
enterprise with a legal entity separate and distinct from the government 
of  a  Party,  regardless  of  whether  or  not  the  government  holds  any 
shares or interest in such a legal entity; or 
 
(b)  rectifications of a purely formal nature and minor amendments to Annex 
11.A or Annex 11.B, including those under Subparagraph (a), made 
through an Implementing Arrangement in accordance with Article 17.2 
(Functions of the Commission). 
11-13 
  
 
 
Annex 11.A 
 
 
List of Entities and Covered Goods and Services 
 
 
CHILE 
 
A.  List of Entities  
 
1.  Presidencia de la República (Office of the President of the Republic) 
2.  Ministerio de Interior (Ministry of the Interior) 
3.  Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
4.  Ministerio de Defensa Nacional (Ministry of National Defense) 
5.  Ministerio de Hacienda (Ministry of Finance) 
6.  Ministerio Secretaría General de la Presidencia (Ministry of the General 
Secretariat of the President’s Office) 
7.  Ministerio Secretaría General de Gobierno (Ministry of the General 
Secretariat of Government) 
8.  Ministerio de Economía, Fomento, Reconstrucción y Energía (Ministry 
of Economic Affairs, Development, Reconstruction and Energy) 
9.  Ministerio de Minería (Ministry of Mining) 
10.  Ministerio de Planificación y Cooperación (Ministry of Planning and 
Cooperation) 
11.  Ministerio de Educación (Ministry of Education) 
12.  Ministerio de Justicia  (Ministry of Justice) 
13.  Ministerio de Trabajo y Previsión Social (Ministry of Labour and Social 
Welfare) 
14.  Ministerio de Obras Públicas (Ministry of Public Works) 
15.  Ministerio de Transporte y Telecomunicaciones  (Ministry of Transport 
and Telecommunications) 
16.  Ministerio de Salud (Ministry of Health) 
17.  Ministerio de la Vivienda y Urbanismo (Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Planning) 
18.  Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales (Ministry of National Assets) 
19.  Ministerio de Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture) 
20.  Ministerio Servicio Nacional de la Mujer (Ministry of the National Bureau 
for Women) 
 
 
Gobiernos Regionales (Regional Governments) 
 
Intendencia I Región 
(Intendancy Region I) 
Gobernación de Arica 
11-14 
  
 
(Governor’s Office – Arica) 
Gobernación de Parinacota 
(Governor’s Office - Parinacota) 
Gobernación de Iquique 
(Governor’s Office - Iquique) 
Intendencia II Región 
(Intendancy Region II) 
Gobernación de Antofagasta 
(Governor’s Office - Antofagasta) 
Gobernación de El Loa 
(Governor’s Office - El Loa) 
Gobernación de Tocopilla 
(Governor’s Office - Tocopilla) 
Intendencia III Región 
(Intendancy Region III) 
Gobernación de Chañaral 
(Governor’s Office - Chañaral) 
Gobernación de Copiapó 
(Governor’s Office - Copiapó) 
Intendencia IV Región 
(Intendancy Region IV) 
Gobernación de Huasco 
(Governor’s Office - Huasco) 
Gobernación de El Elqui 
(Governor’s Office - El Elqui) 
Gobernación de Limarí 
(Governor’s Office - Limarí) 
Gobernación de Choapa 
(Governor’s Office - Choapa) 
Intendencia V Región 
(Intendancy Region V) 
Gobernación de Petorca 
(Governor’s Office - Petorca) 
Gobernación de Valparaíso 
(Governor’s Office - Valparaiso) 
Gobernación de San Felipe de Aconcagua 
(Governor’s Office - San Felipe de Aconcagua) 
Gobernación de Los Andes 
(Governor’s Office - Los Andes) 
Gobernación de Quillota 
(Governor’s Office - Quillota) 
Gobernación de San Antonio 
(Governor’s Office - San Antonio) 
Gobernación de Isla de Pascua 
(Governor’s Office - Isla de Pascua) 
Intendencia VI Región 
11-15 
  
 
(Intendancy Region VI) 
Gobernación de Cachapoal 
(Governor’s Office - Cachapoal) 
Gobernación de Colchagua 
(Governor’s Office - Colchagua) 
Gobernación de Cardenal Caro 
(Governor’s Office - Cardenal Caro) 
Intendencia VII Región 
(Intendancy Region VII) 
Gobernación de Curicó 
(Governor’s Office - Curicó) 
Gobernación de Talca 
(Governor’s Office - Talca) 
Gobernación de Linares 
(Governor’s Office - Linares) 
Gobernación de Cauquenes 
(Governor’s Office - Cauquenes) 
Intendencia VIII Región 
(Intendancy Region VIII) 
Gobernación de Ñuble 
(Governor’s Office - Ñuble) 
Gobernación de Bío-Bío 
(Governor’s Office - Bío-Bío) 
Gobernación de Concepción 
(Governor’s Office - Concepción) 
Gobernación de Arauco 
(Governor’s Office - Arauco) 
Intendencia IX Región 
(Intendancy Region IX) 
Gobernación de Malleco 
(Governor’s Office - Malleco) 
Gobernación de Cautín 
(Governor’s Office - Cautín) 
Intendencia X Región 
(Intendancy Region X) 
Gobernación de Valdivia 
(Governor’s Office - Valdivia) 
Gobernación de Osorno 
(Governor’s Office - Osorno) 
Gobernación de Llanquihue 
(Governor’s Office - Llanquihue) 
Gobernación de Chiloé 
(Governor’s Office - Chiloé) 
Gobernación de Palena 
(Governor’s Office - Palena) 
Intendencia XI Región 
11-16 
  
 
(Intendancy Region XI) 
Gobernación de Coihaique 
(Governor’s Office - Coihaique) 
Gobernación de Aysén 
(Governor’s Office - Aysén) 
Gobernación de General Carrera 
(Governor’s Office - General Carrera) 
Intendencia XII Región 
(Intendancy Region XII) 
Gobernación de Capitán Prat 
(Governor’s Office - Capitán Prat) 
Gobernación de Ultima Esperanza 
(Governor’s Office - Ultima Esperanza) 
Gobernación de Magallanes 
(Governor’s Office - Magallanes) 
Gobernación de Tierra del Fuego 
(Governor’s Office - Tierra del Fuego) 
Gobernación de Antártica Chilena 
(Governor’s Office - Antártica Chilena) 
Intendencia Región Metropolitana 
(Intendancy Metropolitan Region) 
Gobernación de Chacabuco 
(Governor’s Office - Chacabuco) 
Gobernación de Cordillera 
(Governor’s Office - Cordillera) 
Gobernación de Maipo 
(Governor’s Office - Maipo) 
Gobernación de Talagante 
(Governor’s Office - Talagante) 
Gobernación de Melipilla 
(Governor’s Office - Melipilla) 
Gobernación de Santiago 
(Governor’s Office - Santiago) 
 
 
Note to Section A: 
 
Chapter 11 shall not apply to any procurement made by a listed entity on 
behalf of a non-listed entity. 
 
 
B.  Covered Goods and Services 
 
1.  Goods 
 
Chapter 11 applies to all goods procured by the entities listed in Section A. 
11-17 
  
 
 
2.  Services 
 
Chapter  11  applies  to  all  services  procured  by  the  entities  listed  in  
Section  A,  except  all  classes  of  financial  services  (as  elaborated  in  the 
Common Classification System), which are excluded. 
 
3.  Construction Services 
 
Chapter 11 applies to all construction services procured by the entities listed 
in Section A.  
 
 
11-18 
  
 
NEW ZEALAND 
 
A.  List of Entities  
 
Archives New Zealand 
Crown Law Office 
Department of Building and Housing 
Department of Child, Youth and Family Services 
Department of Conservation 
Department of Corrections 
Department of Internal Affairs 
Department of Labour  
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Education Review Office 
Government Communications Security Bureau 
Inland Revenue Department 
Land Information New Zealand 
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 
Ministry for Culture and Heritage 
Ministry of Defence 
Ministry of Economic Development 
Ministry of Education 
Ministry for the Environment 
Ministry of Fisheries 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
Ministry of Health 
Ministry of Justice 
Ministry of Maori Development 
Ministry of Pacific Island Affairs 
Ministry of Research, Science and Technology 
Ministry of Social Development 
Ministry of Transport 
Ministry of Women's Affairs 
National Library of New Zealand 
New Zealand Customs Service 
New Zealand Defence Force 
New Zealand Police 
Serious Fraud Office 
State Services Commission 
Statistics New Zealand 
The Treasury 
 
Note to Section A: 
 
Chapter 11 shall not apply to any procurement made by a listed entity on 
behalf of a non-listed entity.   
11-19 
  
 
 
B.  Covered Goods and Services 
 
1.  Goods 
 
Chapter 11 applies to all goods procured by the entities listed in Section A. 
 
2.  Services 
 
Chapter  11  applies  to  all  services  procured  by  the  entities  listed  in  
Section A, except the following: 
 
(a)  procurement of research and development services;2 
 
(b)  any  procurement  in  respect  of  contracts  for  construction, 
refurbishment or furnishing of chanceries abroad;3 and 
 
(c)  procurement of public health, education and welfare services.4 
 
 
3.  Construction Services 
 
Chapter 11 applies to all construction services procured by the entities listed 
in Section A, except for procurement covered by Paragraph 2(b) above.   
 
                                                           
2  As defined in WTO document MTN.GNS/W/120 (CPC 851-853).  
3 As regards construction services, this refers to WTO document MTN.GNS/W/120 sector heading 
“Construction and Related Engineering Services”.  
4 Refers to procurement, for provision to the public, of services classified in WTO document 
MTN.GNS/W/120 under the sector headings “Educational Services” and “Health Related and Social 
Services”, and CPC item 913. 
11-20 
  
 
SINGAPORE 
 
A.  List of Entities  
 
Auditor-General's Office 
Attorney-General's Chambers 
Cabinet Office 
Istana 
Judicature 
Ministry of Transport 
Ministry of Community Development and Sports 
Ministry of Education 
Ministry of Environment 
Ministry of Finance 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Ministry of Health 
Ministry of Home Affairs 
Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts 
Ministry of Manpower 
Ministry of Law 
Ministry of National Development 
Ministry of Trade and Industry 
Parliament 
Presidential Councils 
Prime Minister's Office 
Public Service Commission 
Ministry of Defence 
 
This  Agreement  will  generally  apply  to  purchases  by  the  Singapore  Ministry  of 
Defence  of  the  following  Federal  Supply  Classification  (FSC)  categories  of  the 
United States of America (others being excluded) subject to the Government of 
Singapore's determinations under the provisions of Article 11.22. 
 
 
FSC  Description 
 
22  Railway Equipment 
23  Ground Effect Vehicles, Motor Vehicles, Trailers and Cycles 
24  Tractors 
25  Vehicular Equipment Components 
26  Tires and Tubes 
29  Engine Accessories 
30  Mechanical Power Transmission Equipment 
31  Bearings 
32  Woodworking Machinery and Equipment 
34  Metalworking Machinery 
11-21 
  
 
35  Service and Trade Equipment 
36  Special Industry Machinery 
37  Agricultural Machinery and Equipment 
38  Construction,  Mining,  Excavating  and  Highway  Maintenance   
Equipment 
39  Materials Handling Equipment 
40  Rope, Cable, Chain and Fittings 
41  Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Air Circulating Equipment 
42  Fire Fighting, Rescue and Safety Equipment 
43  Pumps and Compressors 
44  Furnace, Steam Plant and Drying Equipment 
45  Plumbing, Heating and Sanitation Equipment 
46  Water Purification and Sewage Treatment Equipment 
47  Pipe, Tubing, Hose and Fittings 
48  Valves 
51  Handtools 
52  Measuring Tools 
53  Hardware and Abrasives 
54  Prefabricated Structures and Scaffolding 
55  Lumber, Millwork, Plywood and Veneer 
56  Construction and Building Materials 
61  Electric Wire, and Power and Distribution Equipment 
62  Lighting, Fixtures and Lamps 
63  Alarm, Signal and Security Detection Systems 
65  Medical, Dental and Veterinary Equipment and Supplies 
67  Photographic Equipment 
68  Chemicals and Chemical Products 
69  Training Aids and Devices 
70  General  Purpose  Automatic  Data  Processing  Equipment, 
Software,Supplies and Support Equipment 
71  Furniture 
72  Household and Commercial Furnishings and Appliances 
73  Food Preparation and Serving Equipment 
74  Office  Machines,  Text  Processing  Systems  and  Visible  Record 
Equipment 
75  Office Supplies and Devices 
76  Books, Maps and other Publications 
77  Musical Instruments, Phonographs and Home-Type Radios 
78  Recreational and Athletic Equipment 
79  Cleaning Equipment and Supplies 
80  Brushes, Paints, Sealers and Adhesives 
81  Containers, Packaging and Packing Supplies 
83  Textiles, Leather, Furs, Apparel and Shoe Findings, Tents and Flags 
84  Clothing, Individual Equipment, and Insignia 
85  Toiletries 
87  Agricultural Supplies 
11-22 
  
 
88  Live Animals 
89  Subsistence 
91  Fuels, Lubricants, Oils and Waxes 
93  Non-metallic Fabricated Materials 
94  Non-metallic Crude Materials 
95  Metal Bars, Sheets and Shapes 
96  Ores, Minerals, and their Primary Products 
99  Miscellaneous 
 
 
Note to Section A: 
 
  Chapter 11 shall not apply to any procurement made by a listed entity on 
behalf of a non-listed entity.  
 
B.  Covered Goods and Services 
 
1.  Goods 
 
Chapter 11 applies to all goods procured by the entities listed in Section A. 
 
2.   Services (Other than construction services) 
 
The following services are contained in WTO document MTN.GNS/W/120 are 
offered (others being excluded): 
 
CPC  Description 
 
862  Accounting, Auditing and Book-keeping Services 
8671  Architectural Services 
865  Management Consulting Services 
874  Building-Cleaning Services 
641-643  Hotels and Restaurants (incl. catering) 
74710  Travel Agencies and Tour Operators 
7472  Tourist Guide Services 
843  Data Processing Services 
844  Database Services 
932  Veterinary Services 
84100  Consultancy Services Related to the Installation of Computer 
Hardware 
84210  Systems and Software Consulting Services 
87905  Translation and Interpretation Services 
7523  Electronic Mail 
7523  Voice Mail 
7523  On-Line Information and Database Retrieval 
7523  Electronic Data Interchange 
11-23 
  
 
96112  Motion Picture or Video Tape Production Services 
96113  Motion Picture or Video Tape Distribution Services 
96121  Motion Picture Projection Services 
96122  Video Tape Projection Services 
96311  Library Services 
8672  Engineering Services 
7512  Courier Services 
   -  Biotechnology Services 
   -  Exhibition Services 
   -  Commercial Market Research 
   -  Interior Design Services, Excluding Architecture 
   -  Professional,  Advisory  and  Consulting  Services  Relating  to 
Agriculture,  Forestry,  Fishing  and  Mining,  Including  Oilfield 
Services 
 
C.   Construction Services 
 
The following construction services in the sense of Division 51 of the CPC as 
contained  in  WTO  document  MTN.GNS/W/120  are  offered  (others  being 
excluded): 
 
List of construction services offered: 
 
CPC  Description 
 
512  General construction work for buildings 
513  General construction work for civil engineering 
514, 516  Installation and assembly work 
517  Building completion and finishing work 
511, 515, 518  Others 
 
Notes to Section B: 
 
1.  Chapter 11 shall not apply to any procurement in respect of: 
 
(a)  construction  contracts  for  chanceries  abroad  and  headquarters 
buildings made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;  and 
 
(b)  contracts  made  by  the  Internal  Security  Department,  Criminal 
Investigation Department, Security Branch and Central Narcotics Bureau of 
the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  as  well  as  procurement  that  have  security 
considerations made by the Ministry. 
 
2.  The  offer  regarding  services  and  construction  services  is  subject  to  the 
limitations and conditions specified in the Government of Singapore’s offer under 
the GATS negotiations. 
11-24 
  
 
Annex 11.B 
 
 
Single Electronic Point of Access  
 
 
For Chile: 
 
http://www.chilecompra.cl 
 
 
For New Zealand: 
 
http://www.gets.govt.nz 
 
 
For Singapore: 
 
http://www.gebiz.gov.sg 
 
 
Contact Point 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam:  
 
State Tender Board (STB) 
Ministry of Finance 
Commonwealth Drive 
Brunei Darussalam BB 3910 
 
 
For New Zealand: 
 
Regulatory and Competition Policy Branch 
Ministry of Economic Development 
Level 8, 33 Bowen Street 
PO Box 1473 
Wellington, New Zealand 
 
 
For Singapore: 
 
  Expenditure & Procurement Policies Unit 
  Ministry of Finance 
  100, High Street 
  Singapore 179434 
11-25 
  
 
Annex 11.C 
 
Thresholds 
 
 
  Goods         Threshold : SDR 50,000 
 
  Services         Threshold : SDR 50,000 
 
  Construction       Threshold : SDR 5,000,000 
 
 
Thresholds shall be converted to the respective national currencies in accordance 
with the following provisions: 
 
1.  Each Party shall calculate and publish the value of the thresholds under this 
Chapter expressed in the corresponding national currency. These calculations will 
be based on the conversion rates published by the IMF in its monthly “International 
Financial Statistics”. 
 
2.  The  conversion  rates  shall  be  the  average  of  the  daily  values  of  the 
respective national currency in terms of the SDR over the two years preceding 
1 September,  1 October  or  1 November  of  the  year  prior  to  the  thresholds  in 
national currency becoming effective which will be from 1 January. 
 
3.  Thresholds expressed in national currencies will be fixed for two years, ie 
calendar years, for all Parties. 
 
 
11-26 
  
 
CHAPTER 12  
 
TRADE IN SERVICES 
 
 
Article 12.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
commercial presence means any type of business or professional establishment, 
including through: 
 
(a)   the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a legal person; or 
 
(b)   the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office, within 
the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service;  
 
enterprise means an enterprise as defined in Article 2.1 (Definitions of General 
Application), and a branch of an enterprise;  
 
measures  adopted  or  maintained  by  a  Party  means  measures  adopted  or 
maintained by: 
 
(a)   central or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(b)   non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central 
or local governments or authorities. 
 
Such measures include measures affecting: 
 
(a)   the production, distribution, marketing, sale, and delivery of a service; 
 
(b)   the purchase or use of, or payment for, a service; 
 
(c)   the access to and use of distribution, transport, or telecommunications 
networks and services in connection with the supply of a service; 
 
(d)   the presence, including commercial presence in its territory of a service 
supplier of another Party; and 
 
(e)   the provision of a bond or other form of financial security as a condition 
for the supply of a service; 
 
service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means any service 
which is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or 
more service suppliers;   
12-1 
  
 
 
service supplier of a Party means a person of a Party that seeks to supply or 
supplies a service;  
 
specialty air services means any non-transportation air services, such as aerial 
fire fighting, sightseeing, spraying, surveying, mapping, photography, parachute 
jumping, glider towing, and helicopter-lift for logging and construction, and other 
airborne agricultural, industrial, and inspection services; 
 
state  enterprise  means  an  enterprise  that  is  owned,  or  controlled  through 
ownership interests, by a Party;  
 
trade in services or supply of services means the supply of a service: 
 
(a)   from the territory of one Party into the territory of another Party (“cross-
border mode”); 
 
(b)   in the territory of one Party by a person of that Party to a person of 
another Party (“consumption abroad mode”);  
 
(c)   by a service supplier of one Party, through commercial presence in the 
territory of another Party (“commercial presence mode”); or 
 
(d)   by a national of a Party in the territory of another Party (“presence of 
natural persons mode”). 
  
 
Article 12.2: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to facilitate expansion of trade in services 
on  a  mutually  advantageous  basis,  under  conditions  of  transparency  and 
progressive  liberalisation,  while  recognising  the  rights  of  Parties  to  regulate 
services, including to introduce new regulations, and the role of governments in 
providing  and  funding  public  services,  giving  due  respect  to  national  policy 
objectives including where these reflect local circumstances. 
 
 
Article 12.3: Scope 
 
1.   This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party 
affecting trade in services.  
 
2.   This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
(a)   financial services as defined in Annex 12.A;  
 
12-2 
  
 
(b)   government procurement, which means any law, regulation, policy, or 
procedure  of  general  application  governing  the  procurement  by 
governmental  agencies  of  services  purchased  for  governmental 
purposes and not with a view to commercial resale or with a view to use 
in the supply of services for commercial sale;1  
 
(c)   services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority;  
 
(d)   subsidies or grants provided by a Party or a state enterprise,2  or any 
conditions attached to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies 
or  grants,  whether  or  not  such  subsidies  or  grants  are  offered 
exclusively  to  domestic  services,  service  consumers  or  service 
suppliers;  
 
(e)   measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the employment 
market of a Party; or 
 
(f)   measures regarding citizenship, nationality, residence or employment on 
a permanent basis. 
 
3.   This Chapter shall not apply to air transport services, whether scheduled or 
non-scheduled, or to related services in support of air services,3 other than the 
following:  
 
(a)  aircraft repair and maintenance services during which an aircraft is 
  withdrawn from service; 
 
(b)  the selling and marketing of air transport services; 
 
(c)  computer reservation system services; 
 
(d)  speciality air services; and 
 
(e)   international  air  transportation  services  as  set  out  in  the  Multilateral 
Agreement  on  the  Liberalisation  of  International  Air  Transportation 
(MALIAT), and, to the extent that there are any inconsistencies between 
this Agreement and those of the MALIAT, the rights and obligations 
under the MALIAT at any given time shall prevail. 
  
4.    Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to 
regulate the entry of natural persons of another Party into, or their temporary stay 
in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and 
                                                           
1  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  this  Chapter  and  Chapter  11  (Government 
Procurement) the latter Chapter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.  
2 This includes government supported loans, guarantees, and insurance. 
3 For example, ground handling services. 
12-3 
  
 
to ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across, its borders, provided 
that such measures are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the 
benefits accruing to that other Party under the terms of this Chapter.  The sole fact 
of requiring a visa for natural persons of certain countries and not for those of 
others shall not be regarded as nullifying benefits under this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 12.4: National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of another Party, 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to its own 
services and service suppliers. 
 
 
Article 12.5: Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of another Party 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to services 
and service suppliers of a non-Party.  
 
 
Article 12.6: Market Access 
 
No Party shall, either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on the basis 
of its entire territory, adopt or maintain: 
 
(a)  limitations on the number of service suppliers whether in the form of 
numerical  quotas,  monopolies,  exclusive  service  suppliers  or  the 
requirements of an economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the form 
of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(c)  limitations  on  the  total  number  of  service  operations  or  on  the  total 
quantity of service output expressed in terms of designated numerical 
units in the form of quotas or the requirement of an economic needs 
test;4  
 
(d)  limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed 
in a particular service sector or that a service supplier may employ and 
who are necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific 
service  in  the  form  of  numerical  quotas  or  the  requirement  of  an 
economic needs test; and 
 
                                                           
4 This paragraph does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of services. 
12-4 
  
 
(e)  measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint 
venture through which a service supplier may supply a service. 
 
 
Article 12.7: Local Presence 
 
  No Party may require a service supplier of another Party to establish or 
maintain a representative office or any form of enterprise, or to be resident, in its 
territory as a condition for the supply of a service. 
 
 
Article 12.8: Non-conforming Measures 
 
1.      Articles 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 12.7 shall not apply to: 
 
(a)   any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a Party at: 
 
(i)   the central level of government, as set out by that Party in its 
Schedule to Annex III, or 
 
(ii)   a local level of government; 
 
(b)   the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any  non-conforming  measure 
referred to in Subparagraph (a); or 
 
(c)   an  amendment  to  any  non-conforming  measure  referred  to  in 
Subparagraph (a) to the extent that the amendment does not decrease 
the  conformity  of  the  measure,  as  it  existed  immediately  before  the 
amendment, with Articles 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 12.7. 
 
2.      Articles 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 12.7 do not apply to any measure that a Party 
adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors, or activities, as set out in 
its Schedule to Annex IV. 
 
 
Article 12.9: Review 
 
The  Parties  shall  consult  within  two  years  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement and at least every three years thereafter, or as otherwise agreed, to 
review the implementation of this Chapter and consider other trade in services 
issues of mutual interest, with a view to the progressive liberalisation of the trade in 
services among them on a mutually advantageous basis.  
12-5 
  
 
 
Article 12.10: Domestic Regulation 
 
1.    Each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application affecting 
trade in services are administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.    With a view to ensuring that measures relating to qualification requirements 
and procedures, technical standards, and licensing requirements do not constitute 
unnecessary barriers to trade in services, each Party shall ensure that any such 
measures that it adopts or maintains are: 
 
(a)   based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and 
the ability to supply the service; 
 
(b)   not  more  burdensome  than  necessary  to  ensure  the  quality  of  the 
service; and 
 
(c)   in the case of licensing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on 
the supply of the service. 
 
3.   In determining whether a Party is in conformity with its obligations under 
Paragraph  2,  account  shall  be  taken  of  international  standards  of  relevant 
international organisations applied by that Party. 
 
4.   Where  a  Party  requires  authorisation  for  the  supply  of  a  service,  the 
competent authorities of that Party shall, within a reasonable period of time after 
the submission of an application considered complete under domestic laws and 
regulations, inform the applicant of the decision concerning the application.  At the 
request  of  the  applicant,  the  competent  authorities  of  the  Party  shall  provide, 
without undue delay, information concerning the status of the application.  This 
obligation shall not apply to authorisation requirements that are within the scope of 
Article 12.8(2). 
 
5.  If the results of the negotiations related to Article VI:4 of GATS (or the 
results of any similar negotiations undertaken in other multilateral forums in which 
the Parties participate) enter into effect, the Parties shall jointly review these results 
with  a  view  to  their  incorporation  in  this  Agreement.    The  Parties  agree  to 
coordinate on such negotiations as appropriate. 
 
 
Article 12.11: Professional Qualifications and Registration 
 
1.   For the purposes of the fulfilment, in whole or in part, of its standards or 
criteria for the authorisation, licensing, or certification of service suppliers, and 
subject to the requirements of Paragraph 4, a Party may recognise the education 
12-6 
  
 
or experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in a 
particular Party or non-Party.  
 
2.  Where a Party recognises, autonomously or by agreement or arrangement, 
the  education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements  met,  or  licenses  or 
certifications granted in the territory of a non-Party, nothing in Article 12.5 shall be 
construed  to  require  the  Party  to  accord  such  recognition  to  the  education  or 
experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in the 
territory of another Party. 
 
3.   A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type referred 
to in Paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for 
another Party, upon request, to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or 
arrangement or to negotiate comparable ones with it.  Where a Party accords 
recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for another Party to 
demonstrate  that  education,  experience,  licenses,  or  certifications  obtained  or 
requirements met in that other Party’s territory should be recognised. 
 
4.   A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner which would constitute a 
means of discrimination between countries in the application of its standards or 
criteria for the authorisation, licensing, or certification of service suppliers, or a 
disguised restriction on trade in services.   
 
5.  As set out in Annex 12.B, the Parties agree to facilitate the establishment of 
dialogue among their regulators and/or relevant industry bodies with a view to the 
achievement of early outcomes on recognition of professional qualifications and/or 
professional  registration.      Such  outcomes  may  be  achieved  through 
harmonisation,  recognition  of  regulatory  outcomes,  recognition  of  professional 
qualifications and professional registration awarded by one Party as a means of 
complying with the regulatory requirements of another Party whether accorded 
unilaterally  or  by  mutual  arrangement,  including  where  appropriate  through  an 
Implementing Arrangement.   
 
6.  The  initial  priority  areas  for  work  on  professional  qualification  and 
professional  recognition  requirements  are  engineers,  architects,  geologists, 
geophysicists, planners, and accountants.  The priority areas and the recognition 
outcomes achieved on priorities shall be reviewed within the time periods set out in 
Article 12.9.  
 
 
Article 12.12: Denial of Benefits 
 
Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party may deny the benefits 
of this Chapter to: 
 
12-7 
  
 
(a)   service suppliers of another Party where the service is being supplied by 
an enterprise that is owned or controlled by persons of a non-Party and 
the enterprise has no substantive business operations in the territory of 
any Party; or 
 
(b)   service suppliers of another Party where the service is being supplied by 
an enterprise that is owned or controlled by persons of the denying 
Party and the enterprise has no substantive business operations in the 
territory of any Party. 
 
 
Article 12.13: Transparency 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  publish  promptly  or  otherwise  make  publicly  available 
international agreements pertaining to or affecting trade in services to which it is a 
signatory. 
 
2.  Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by any other Party for 
specific information on any of its measures of general application which pertain to 
or  affect  the  operation  of  this  Chapter  or  international  agreements  within  the 
meaning of Paragraph 1.   
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  also  designate  one  or  more  enquiry  points  to  provide 
specific information to the other Parties, upon request, on all such matters. 
 
 
Article 12.14: Subsidies 
 
  Notwithstanding Article 12.3, the Parties shall review the issue of disciplines 
on subsidies related to trade in services in the light of any disciplines agreed under 
Article XV of GATS with a view to their incorporation into this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 12.15: Payments and transfers 
 
  Except as provided in Annex 12.C, each Party shall permit all payments and 
transfers for current transactions and capital movements, with regard to trade in 
services. 
12-8 
  
 
Annex 12.A 
 
Financial service means any service of a financial nature.  Financial services 
include all insurance and insurance-related services, and all banking and other 
financial services (excluding insurance), as well as services incidental or auxiliary 
to a service of a financial nature.  Without limiting this definition, financial services 
include the following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(a)  direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(i) life, 
 
(ii) non-life; 
 
(b)  reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(c)  insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; 
 
(d)  services  auxiliary  to  insurance,  such  as  consultancy,  actuarial,  risk 
assessment, and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
(e)  acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
 
(f)  lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring 
and financing of commercial transactions; 
 
(g)  financial leasing; 
 
(h)  all payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge 
and debit cards, travellers cheques, and bankers drafts; 
 
(i)  guarantees and commitments; 
 
(j)  trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an 
exchange, in an over-the-counter market, or otherwise, the following: 
 
(i)  money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates of 
deposits, 
 
(ii)  foreign exchange, 
 
(iii)  derivative products including, futures and options, 
12-9 
  
 
 
(iv)  exchange  rate  and  interest  rate  instruments,  including  products 
such as swaps, forward rate agreements, 
 
(v)  transferable securities, or 
 
(vi)  other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including bullion; 
 
(k)  participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting 
and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of 
services related to such issues; 
 
(l)  money broking; 
 
(m)  asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of 
collective  investment  management,  pension  fund  management, 
custodial, depository, and trust services; 
 
(n)  settlement  and  clearing  services  for  financial  assets,  including 
securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
(o)  provision  and  transfer  of  financial  information,  and  financial  data 
processing and related software by suppliers of other financial services; 
and 
 
(p)  advisory, intermediation, and other auxiliary financial services on all the 
activities  listed  in  Subparagraphs  (e)  through  (o),  including  credit 
reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, 
advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy. 
12-10 
  
 
Annex 12.B 
 
Professional Services 
 
 
Development of Professional Standards 
 
1.  Professional  services  means  services,  the  provision  of  which  requires 
specialised post secondary education, or equivalent training or experience, and for 
which the right to practice is granted or restricted by a Party, but does not include 
services provided by trades persons or vessel and aircraft crew members.  
 
2.   The Parties shall encourage the relevant bodies in their respective territories 
to develop mutually acceptable standards and criteria for licensing and certification 
of  professional  service  providers  and  to  provide  recommendations  on  mutual 
recognition to the Commission. 
 
3.   The standards and criteria referred to in Paragraph 2 may be developed 
with regard to the following matters: 
 
(a)  education - accreditation of schools or academic programs; 
 
(b)   examinations  -  qualifying  examinations  for  licensing,  including 
alternative  methods  of  assessment  such  as  oral  examinations  and 
interviews; 
 
(c)  experience - length and nature of experience required for licensing; 
 
(d)  conduct and ethics - standards of professional conduct and the nature of 
disciplinary action for non-conformity with those standards; 
 
(e)  professional development and re-certification - continuing education and 
ongoing requirements to maintain professional certification; 
 
(f)  scope of practice - extent of, or limitations on, permissible activities; 
 
(g)  local knowledge - requirements for knowledge of such matters as local 
laws, regulations, language, geography, or climate; and 
 
(h)  consumer protection - alternatives to residency requirements, including 
bonding, professional liability insurance, and client restitution funds, to 
provide for the protection of consumers. 
 
4.   On receipt of a recommendation referred to in Paragraph 2, the Commission 
shall review the recommendation within a reasonable time to determine whether it 
is consistent with this Agreement.  Based on the Commission’s review, each Party 
12-11 
  
 
shall  encourage  its  respective  competent  authorities,  where  appropriate,  to 
implement the recommendation within a mutually agreed time. 
 
 
Temporary Licensing 
 
5.   Where the Parties agree, each Party shall encourage the relevant bodies in 
its  territory  to  develop  procedures  for  the  temporary  licensing  of  professional 
service providers of the other Party. 
 
 
Review 
 
6.   Subject to Article 12.11(6), the Commission shall review the implementation 
of this Annex.  The Commission shall include within the scope of its review any 
differences in regulatory approaches between the Parties.  Among other issues, a 
Party may raise issues connected with the development of international standards 
of relevant international organisations related to professional services.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
5 The term “relevant international organisations” refers to international bodies whose membership is 
open to the relevant bodies of at least two Parties. 
 
12-12 
  
 
Annex 12.C 
 
Payments and Transfers 
 
Chile 
 
 
With respect to its obligations under Article 12.15 (Payments and Transfers), Chile 
reserves: 
 
1.  The  right,  without  prejudice  to  Paragraph  3  of  this  Annex,  to  maintain 
existing requirements that transfers from Chile of proceeds from the sale of all or 
any part of an investment of an investor of a Party6 or from the partial or complete 
liquidation of the investment may not take place until a period not to exceed: 
 
(a)  in the case of an investment made pursuant to Decree Law 600 Foreign 
Investment  Statute  (Decreto  Ley  600,  Estatuto  de  la  Inversion 
Extranjera), one year has elapsed from the date of transfer to Chile; or  
 
(b)  in the case of an investment made pursuant to Law 18.657 Foreign 
Capital  Investment  Fund  Law  (Ley  18.657,  Ley  Sobre  Fondo  de 
Inversiones de Capitales Extranjeros), five years have elapsed from the 
date of transfer to Chile;    
 
2.  The right to adopt measures, consistent with this Annex, establishing future 
special voluntary investment programs in addition to the general regime for foreign 
investment in Chile, except that any such measures may restrict transfers from 
Chile of proceeds from the sale of all or any part of an investment of an investor of 
another Party or from the partial or complete liquidation of the investment for a 
period not to exceed five years from the date of transfer to Chile; and 
 
3.  The right of the Central Bank of Chile to maintain or adopt measures in 
conformity with the Constitutional Organic Law of the Central Bank of Chile (Ley 
Orgánica Constitucional del Banco Central de Chile, Ley 18.840 – hereinafter Law 
18.840) or other legislation, in order to ensure currency stability and the normal 
operation of domestic and foreign payments.  For this purpose, the Central Bank of 
Chile is empowered to regulate the supply of money and credit in circulation and 
international credit and foreign exchange operations.  The Central Bank of Chile is 
empowered as well to issue regulations governing monetary, credit, financial, and 
foreign exchange matters.  Such measures include, inter alia, the establishment of 
restrictions or limitations on current payments and transfers (capital movements) to 
or  from  Chile,  as  well  as  transactions  related  to  them,  such  as  requiring  that 
deposits,  investments  or  credits  from  or  to  a  foreign  country,  be  subject  to  a 
reserve requirement (“encaje”). 
                                                           
6 Investment of an investor of a Party, refers to a commercial presence of a service supplier of a 
Party. 
12-13 
  
 
 
  Notwithstanding the above, the reserve requirement that the Central Bank of 
Chile can apply pursuant to Article 49 No. 2 of Law 18.840, shall not exceed 30 per 
cent  of  the  amount  transferred  and  shall  not  be  imposed  for  a  period  which 
exceeds two years. 
 
4.  When  applying  measures  under  this  Annex,  Chile,  as  established  in  its 
legislation, shall not discriminate between the Parties to this Agreement and any 
non-Party with respect to transactions of the same nature. 
12-14 
  
 
Annex 12.D 
 
DL 600 
 
Chile 
 
 
1.  It is understood that this Chapter does not limit the right of the Foreign 
Investment  Committee  to  regulate  the  terms  and  conditions  of  any  investment 
contract under the Foreign Investment Statute, Decree Law 600.  Furthermore, it is 
also understood that the Foreign Investment Committee is not obliged to enter into 
investment contracts. 
 
2.  For greater certainty, commercial presence established in Chile under the 
terms and conditions set out in an investment contract shall be subject to the rights 
and obligations of this Chapter from the date of transfer pursuant to the investment 
contract.  Execution of an investment contract under DL 600 by a service supplier 
of another Party does not create any right on the part of the service supplier to 
engage in particular activities in Chile.  
 
 
 
 
 
12-15 
  
 
CHAPTER 13  
 
TEMPORARY ENTRY  
 
 
Article 13.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
business  person  means  a  natural  person  who  has  the  nationality  of  a  Party 
according to Annex 2.A, who is engaged in trade in goods or supply of services;  
 
immigration measure means any law, regulation, policy or procedure affecting the 
entry and stay of foreign nationals; 
 
temporary entry means the entry into the territory of a Party by a business person 
of the other Party without the intent to establish permanent residence. 
 
 
Article 13.2: Objectives 
 
1.  The  objectives  of  this  Chapter  are  to  facilitate  the  temporary  entry  of 
business persons of any Party engaged in trade in goods or supply of services 
among  the  Parties  through  streamlined,  transparent  immigration  clearance 
procedures for temporary entry, while at the same time ensuring border security 
and  protecting  the  domestic  labour  force  and  permanent  employment  in  the 
territories of the Parties. 
 
2.  The Parties affirm their voluntary commitments established in the APEC 
Business Travel Card “Operating Framework”. 
 
 
Article 13.3: Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter does not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking 
access  to  the  employment  market  of  a  Party,  nor  shall  it  apply  to  measures 
regarding citizenship, nationality, residence or employment on a permanent basis. 
 
2.  In respect of business persons seeking entry under Chapter 12 (Trade in 
Services), the Parties affirm their rights and obligations under GATS, in particular 
the  Annex  on  Movement  of  Natural  Persons  Supplying  Services  under  the 
Agreement, regarding each Parties’ specific commitments relating to movement of 
natural persons.  
 
 
13-1 
  
 
Article 13.4: Exchange of Information 
 
1.  No later than 6 months after the entry into force of this Agreement, the 
Parties shall exchange information on measures that affect the temporary entry of 
business  persons  through  the  contact  points  designated  under  Article  14.5 
(Contact Points). 
 
2.  When a Party modifies or amends an immigration measure that affects the 
temporary entry of business persons, such modifications or amendments shall be 
published and made available in such a manner as will enable business persons of 
the other Parties to become acquainted with them. 
 
 
Article 13.5: Review 
 
1.  Two years after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall 
review the rules and conditions applicable to movement of natural persons, with a 
view to achieving a comprehensive chapter on temporary entry, covering broad 
categories of business persons, such as may be proposed by any Party.   
 
2.  If  the  Parties  achieve  a  mutually advantageous  balance  of  rights  in  the 
negotiations foreseen in Paragraph 1, the review will also address the scope of the 
definition of business person set out in Article 13.1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13-2 
  
 
CHAPTER 14  
  
 TRANSPARENCY 
 
 
Article 14.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
Administrative ruling of general application means an administrative ruling or 
interpretation that applies to all persons and fact situations and that is relevant to 
the implementation of this Agreement but does not include: 
 
(a)  a  determination  or  ruling  made  in  administrative  or  quasi-judicial 
proceedings that applies to a particular person, good, or service of 
another Party in a specific case; or 
 
(b)  a ruling that adjudicates with respect to a particular act or practice. 
 
 
Article 14.2: Publication 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  laws,  regulations,  procedures,  and 
administrative rulings of general application with respect to any matter covered by 
this Agreement are promptly published or otherwise made available1 in such a 
manner as to enable interested persons and Parties to become acquainted with 
them. 
 
2.  When possible, each Party shall: 
 
(a)  publish in advance any measure referred to in Paragraph 1 that it 
proposes to adopt; and 
 
(b)  provide,  where  appropriate,  interested  persons  and  Parties  with  a 
reasonable opportunity to comment on such proposed measures. 
 
 
Article 14.3: Administrative Proceedings 
 
With  a  view  to  administering  in  a  consistent,  impartial,  and  reasonable 
manner all measures affecting matters covered by this Agreement, each Party 
shall ensure in its administrative proceedings applying measures referred to in 
Article 14.2(1) to particular persons, goods, or services of the other Parties in 
specific cases that: 
 
                                                           
1 Including through the Internet or in print form. 
14-1 
  
 
(a)   wherever possible, persons of another Party that are directly affected 
by a proceeding are provided reasonable notice, in accordance with 
domestic  procedures,  when  a  proceeding  is  initiated,  including  a 
description of the nature of the proceeding, a statement of the legal 
authority  under  which  the  proceeding  is  initiated,  and  a  general 
description of any issues in question; 
 
(b)   such persons are afforded a reasonable opportunity to present facts 
and  arguments  in  support  of  their  positions  prior  to  any  final 
administrative action, when time, the nature of the proceeding, and 
the public interest permit; and 
 
(c)   its procedures are in accordance with domestic law. 
 
 
Article 14.4: Review and Appeal 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall,  where  warranted,  establish  or  maintain  judicial,  quasi- 
judicial, or administrative tribunals, or procedures for the purpose of the prompt 
review and correction of final administrative actions regarding matters covered by 
this Agreement, other than those taken for prudential reasons.  Such tribunals shall 
be impartial and independent of the office or authority entrusted with administrative 
enforcement and shall not have any substantial interest in the outcome of the 
matter. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that,  in  any  such  tribunals  or  procedures,  the 
Parties to the proceedings are provided with the right to: 
  
(a)   a  reasonable  opportunity  to  support  or  defend  their  respective 
positions; and 
 
(b)   a  decision  based  on  the  evidence  and  submissions  of  record  or, 
where  required  by  domestic  law,  the  record  compiled  by  the 
administrative authority. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further review as provided in 
its domestic law, that such decision shall be implemented by, and shall govern the 
practice of, the offices or authorities with respect to the administrative action at 
issue. 
 
 
Article 14.5: Contact Points 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  or  points  to  facilitate 
communications among the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement. 
 
14-2 
  
 
2.   On the request of another Party, the contact points shall identify the office or 
official  responsible  for  the  matter  and  assist,  as  necessary,  in  facilitating 
communications with the requesting Party. 
 
 
Article 14.6: Notification and Provision of Information 
 
1.   Where  a  Party  considers  that  any  proposed  or  actual  measure  might 
materially affect the operation of this Agreement or otherwise substantially affect 
another Party’s interests under this Agreement, that Party shall notify the interested 
Party, to the extent possible, of the proposed or actual measure. 
 
2.   On request of another Party, a Party shall provide information and respond 
to questions pertaining to any actual or proposed measure, whether or not that 
other Party has been previously notified of that measure. 
 
3.   Any notification, request, or information under this Article shall be conveyed 
to the other Parties through their contact points. 
 
4.   Any notification or information provided under this Article shall be without 
prejudice as to whether the measure is consistent with this Agreement.  
14-3 
  
 
CHAPTER 15  
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
 Article 15.1: Objectives 
 
1.  The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation and 
application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt through cooperation 
and consultations to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that 
might affect its operation.  
 
2.  The  objective  of  this  Chapter  is  to  provide  an  effective,  efficient  and 
transparent process for consultations and settlement of disputes among the Parties 
concerning their rights and obligations under this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 15.2: Scope 
 
1.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  the  dispute  settlement 
provisions of this Chapter shall apply: 
 
(a)  with respect to the avoidance or settlement of all disputes between 
the  Parties  regarding  the  interpretation  or  application  of  this 
Agreement;  
 
(b)  wherever a Party considers that an actual or proposed measure of 
another Party is or would be inconsistent with the obligations of this 
Agreement or that another Party has otherwise failed to carry out its 
obligations under this Agreement; or 
 
(c)  wherever a Party considers that an actual or proposed measure of 
another  Party  causes  nullification  or  impairment  in  the  sense  of   
Annex 15.A. 
 
2.   Subject to Article 15.3, this Chapter is without prejudice to the rights of the 
Parties to have recourse to dispute settlement procedures available under other 
agreements to which they are parties. 
 
 
Article 15.3:  Choice of Forum 
 
1.  Where a dispute regarding any matter arises under this Agreement and 
under  another  trade  agreement  to  which  the  disputing  Parties  are  party,  the 
complaining Party may select the forum in which to settle the dispute. 
 
15-1 
  
 
2.  The complaining Party shall notify the other Parties in writing of its intention 
to bring a dispute to a particular forum before doing so.  Where a Party wishes to 
have recourse to a different dispute settlement forum from that notified by another 
complaining Party, the complaining Parties shall consult with a view to reaching 
agreement on a single forum in which to settle the dispute.  
 
3.  Once  a  complaining  Party  has  initiated  dispute  settlement  proceedings 
under Article 15.6, under the WTO Agreement or any other trade agreement to 
which the disputing Parties are party,1 the forum selected shall be used to the 
exclusion of the others.   
 
4.  Where there is more than one dispute on the same matter arising under this 
Agreement against a Party, the disputes shall be joined. 
 
 
Article 15.4:  Consultations  
 
1.  Any Party may request in writing consultations with any other Party with 
respect  to  any  actual  or  proposed  measure  of  that  Party  that  it  considers 
inconsistent with this Agreement or any other matter that it considers might affect 
the operation of this Agreement, which shall be circulated to all Parties to this 
Agreement through the Contact Points designated in accordance with Article 14.5 
(Contact Points). 
 
2.  All such requests for consultations shall set out the reasons for the request, 
including the identification of the actual or proposed measure or other matter at 
issue and an indication of the legal basis for the complaint. 
 
3.   The Party to which a request for consultations is made shall reply to the 
request in writing within 7 days after the date of its receipt. The response to the 
request for consultations shall be circulated to all Parties. 
 
4.  Whenever a Party other than the consulting Parties considers that it has an 
interest in the consultations, such Party may notify the consulting Parties within 7 
days after the notification of the request for consultations, of its desire to be joined 
in the consultations. The Party complained against shall give positive consideration 
to any request from a Party to attend consultations requested by any other Party. 
 
5.   The Parties shall enter into consultations within a period of no more than:  
 
(a)  15 days after the date of receipt of the request for matters concerning 
perishable goods; or  
 
                                                           
1 For the purposes of this Article, dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO Agreement or any 
other trade agreement are deemed to have been initiated upon a request by a Party for the 
establishment of a panel or by referral of a matter to an arbitral tribunal. 
15-2 
  
 
(b)  30 days after the date of receipt of the request for all other matters. 
 
6.  The  consulting  Parties  shall  make  every  attempt  to  reach  a  mutually 
satisfactory resolution of any matter through consultations under this Article.  To 
this end, the consulting Parties shall: 
 
(a)  provide sufficient information to enable a full examination of how the 
actual or proposed measure or other matter might affect the operation 
and application of this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  treat  any  confidential  information  exchanged  in  the  course  of 
consultations on the same basis as the Party providing the information. 
 
7.  With a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory resolution of the matter, the 
requesting Party may make representations or proposals to the responding Party, 
which shall give due consideration to the representations or proposals made to it. 
 
8.  In consultations under this Article, a consulting Party may request another 
consulting Party to make available personnel of its government agencies or other 
regulatory bodies who have expertise in the matter subject to consultations. 
 
 
Article 15.5:  Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation  
 
1.  Good  offices,  conciliation  and  mediation  are  procedures  undertaken 
voluntarily if the disputing Parties so agree. 
 
2.  Proceedings  involving  good  offices,  conciliation  and  mediation,  and  in 
particular the positions taken by the disputing Parties during these proceedings, 
shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of any Party in any further 
proceedings under these procedures. 
 
3.  Good offices, conciliation or mediation may be requested at any time by any 
disputing Party.  They may begin at any time and be terminated at any time.  Once 
procedures for good offices, conciliation or mediation are concluded without an 
agreement between the disputing Parties, the complaining Party may request the 
establishment of an arbitral tribunal under Article 15.6. 
 
4.  If the disputing Parties agree, good offices, conciliation or mediation may 
continue  while  the  dispute  proceeds  for  resolution  before  an  arbitral  tribunal 
convened under Article 15.6. 
 
 
Article 15.6: Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal  
 
1.  The  complaining  Party  may  request,  by  means  of  a  written  notification 
15-3 
  
 
addressed to the Party complained against, the establishment of an arbitral tribunal 
if the consulting Parties fail to resolve the matter within: 
 
(a)  45 days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations under 
Article 15.4; 
 
(b)  30 days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations under 
Article 15.4 in a matter regarding perishable goods; or 
 
(c)  such other period as the consulting Parties agree. 
 
2.  Such notification shall also be communicated to all Parties. 
 
3.   The request to establish an arbitral tribunal shall identify: 
 
(a)  the specific measure at issue; 
 
(b)  the  legal  basis  of  the  complaint  including  the  provisions  of  this 
Agreement alleged to have been breached and any other relevant 
provisions; and 
 
(c)  the factual basis for the complaint. 
 
4.  Unless otherwise agreed by the disputing Parties, the arbitral tribunal shall 
be established and perform its functions in a manner consistent with the provisions 
of this Chapter. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding Paragraphs 1, 3, and 4, an arbitral tribunal may not be 
established to review a proposed measure. 
 
 
Article 15.7:   Composition of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  The arbitral tribunal shall comprise three members.  
 
2.  In the written notification pursuant to Article 15.6, the complaining Party or 
Parties requesting the establishment of an arbitral tribunal shall designate one 
member of that arbitral tribunal.  
 
3.  Within 15 days of the receipt of the notification referred to in Paragraph 2, 
the Party to which it was addressed shall designate one member of the arbitral 
tribunal.  
 
4.  The  disputing  Parties  shall  designate  by  common  agreement  the 
appointment of the third arbitrator within 15 days of the appointment of the second 
arbitrator.  The member thus appointed shall chair the arbitral tribunal.  
15-4 
  
 
 
5.  If all 3 members have not been designated or appointed within 30 days from 
the date of receipt of the notification referred to in Paragraph 2, at the request of 
any Party to the dispute the necessary designations shall be made by the Director-
General of the WTO within a further 30 days.  
 
6.  The Chair of the arbitral tribunal shall not be a national of any of the Parties, 
nor have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of any of the Parties, 
nor be employed by any of the Parties, nor have dealt with the matter in any 
capacity. 
 
7.   All arbitrators shall: 
 
(a)  have expertise or experience in law, international trade, other matters 
covered by this Agreement, or the resolution of disputes arising under 
international trade agreements; 
 
(b)  be  chosen  strictly  on  the  basis  of  objectivity,  reliability,  and  sound 
judgment;  
 
(c)  be independent of, and not be affiliated with or take instructions from, 
any Party; and 
 
(d)  comply with the code of conduct for panelists established under the 
Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of 
Disputes, which is part of the WTO Agreement. 
 
8.  Individuals may not serve as arbitrators for a dispute in which they have 
participated pursuant to Article 15.5. 
 
9.  If an arbitrator appointed under this Article resigns or becomes unable to 
act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed within 15 days in accordance with the 
selection procedure as prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and 
the successor shall have all the powers and duties of the original arbitrator. 
 
10.  The date of establishment of the arbitral tribunal shall be the date on which 
the Chair is appointed. 
 
 
15-5 
  
 
Article 15.8: Functions of Arbitral Tribunals  
 
1.  The function of an arbitral tribunal is to make an objective assessment of the 
dispute  before  it,  including  an  examination  of  the  facts  of  the  case  and  the 
applicability of and conformity with this Agreement, and make such other findings 
and rulings necessary for the resolution of the dispute referred to it as it thinks fit. 
 
2.  The  findings  and  rulings  of  the  arbitral  tribunal  shall  be  binding  on  the 
disputing Parties. 
 
3.  The arbitral tribunal shall, apart from the matters set out in Article 15.9, 
regulate its own procedures in relation to the rights of Parties to be heard and its 
deliberations in consultation with the disputing Parties. 
 
4.  An  arbitral  tribunal  shall  take  its  decisions  by  consensus;  provided  that 
where an arbitral tribunal is unable to reach consensus it may take its decisions by 
majority vote. 
 
 
Article 15.9: Rules of Procedure for Arbitral Tribunals  
 
1.  Unless  the  disputing  Parties  otherwise  agree,  the  arbitral  tribunal 
proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the Model Rules of Procedure 
for Arbitral Tribunals set out at Annex 15.B.   
 
2.  Unless the disputing Parties otherwise agree within 20 days from the date of 
delivery of the request for the establishment of the arbitral tribunal, the terms of 
reference shall be:  
 
"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the Agreement, the 
matter referred to in the request for the establishment of an arbitral tribunal 
pursuant to Article 15.6 and to make findings of law and fact together with 
the reasons therefore for the resolution of the dispute.” 
 
3.  If a complaining Party wishes to argue that a matter has nullified or impaired 
benefits, the terms of reference shall so indicate. 
 
4.  At the request of a disputing Party or on its own initiative, the arbitral tribunal 
may seek scientific information and technical advice from experts as it deems 
appropriate.    Any  information  so  obtained  shall  be  submitted  to  the  disputing 
Parties and any third Party for comment.  
 
5.  Unless the arbitral tribunal determines otherwise because of the particular 
circumstances of the case, a disputing Party shall bear the cost of its appointed 
arbitrator and its own expenses.  The cost of the Chair of the arbitral tribunal  and  
15-6 
  
 
other expenses associated with the conduct of its proceedings shall be borne by 
the disputing Parties in equal shares. 
 
 
Article 15.10: Suspension or Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.  The disputing Parties may agree that the arbitral tribunal suspend its work at 
any time for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement.  If 
the work of the arbitral tribunal has been suspended for more than 12 months, the 
authority for establishment of the tribunal shall lapse unless the disputing Parties 
agree otherwise. 
 
2.  The disputing Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings of an arbitral 
tribunal in the event that a mutually satisfactory solution to the dispute has been 
found. 
 
 
Article 15.11: Initial Report 
 
1.  The reports of the arbitral tribunal shall be drafted without the presence of 
the Parties and shall be based on the relevant provisions of this Agreement and 
the submissions and arguments of the Parties. 
 
2.  Unless the disputing Parties otherwise agree, the arbitral tribunal shall: 
 
(a)  within 90 days after the last arbitrator is selected; or  
 
(b)  in cases of urgency including those relating to perishable goods within 
60 days after the last arbitrator is selected,  
 
present to the disputing Parties an initial report. 
 
3.  The initial report shall contain: 
 
(a)  findings of fact; 
 
(b)  the determination of the arbitral tribunal as to whether a disputing Party 
has not conformed with its obligations under this Agreement or that a 
disputing Party’s measure is causing nullification or impairment in the 
sense of Annex 15.A or any other determination requested in the terms 
of reference; and 
 
(c)  the decision of the arbitral tribunal on the dispute. 
 
4.  In exceptional cases, if the arbitral tribunal considers it cannot release its 
initial report within 90 days, or within 60 days in cases of urgency, it shall inform 
15-7 
  
 
the  disputing  Parties  in  writing  of  the  reasons  for  the  delay  together  with  an 
estimate of the period within which it will issue its report.  Any delay shall not 
exceed a further period of 30 days unless the disputing Parties otherwise agree.  
 
5.  Arbitrators  may  furnish  separate  opinions  on  matters  not  unanimously 
agreed.  
 
6.  A disputing Party may submit written comments to the arbitral tribunal on its 
initial report within 15 days of presentation of the report or within such other period 
as the disputing Parties may agree. 
 
7.  After  considering  any  written  comments  on  the  initial  report,  the  arbitral 
tribunal may reconsider its report and make any further examination it considers 
appropriate. 
 
 
Article 15.12: Final Report  
 
1.  The arbitral tribunal shall present a final report to the disputing Parties, 
including any separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, within 30 
days of presentation of the initial report, unless the disputing Parties otherwise 
agree.  The disputing Parties shall release the final report to the public within 15 
days thereafter, subject to the protection of confidential information. 
 
2.  If in its final report the arbitral tribunal determines that a disputing Party has 
not conformed with its obligations under this Agreement, or that a Party’s measure 
is causing nullification or impairment within the sense of Annex 15.A, the decision, 
whenever possible, shall be to eliminate the non-conformity or the nullification or 
impairment. 
 
3.  No arbitral tribunal may, either in its initial report or its final report, disclose 
which arbitrators are associated with majority or minority opinions. 
 
 
Article 15.13: Implementation of Final Report 
 
1.  The final report of an arbitral tribunal shall be binding on the disputing Parties 
and shall not be subject to appeal.  
 
2.  Unless  the  disputing  Parties  decide  otherwise,  they  shall  implement  the 
decision contained in the final report of the arbitral tribunal within a reasonable 
period of time if it is not practicable to comply immediately. 
 
3.  If the arbitral tribunal determines that a measure of a Party that is taken by 
local government is not in conformity with its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Party shall notify the other Parties of the steps, such as legislative, regulatory or 
15-8 
  
 
administrative steps, which the Party will take to implement the decision of the 
arbitral tribunal.  
 
4.  The reasonable period of time shall be mutually determined by the disputing 
Parties, or where the disputing Parties fail to agree on the reasonable period of 
time within 45 days of the release of the arbitral tribunal’s report, either Party to the 
dispute may refer the matter to the arbitral tribunal, which shall determine the 
reasonable period of time following consultation with the disputing Parties. 
 
 
Article 15.14: Compliance within Reasonable Period of Time 
 
1.   Where there is disagreement as to the existence or consistency with this 
Agreement of measures taken within the reasonable period of time to comply with 
the decision of the arbitral tribunal, such dispute shall be decided through recourse 
to the dispute settlement procedures in this Chapter, including wherever possible 
by resort to the original arbitral tribunal.  
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal shall provide its report to the disputing Parties within 60 
days after the date of the referral of the matter to it.  When the arbitral tribunal 
considers that it cannot provide its report within this timeframe, if shall inform the 
disputing Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together with an estimate of 
the period within which it will submit its report.   Any delay shall not exceed a 
further period of 30 days unless the disputing Parties otherwise agree. 
 
 
Article 15.15: Compensation and Suspension of Benefits 
 
1.  If the Party concerned fails to bring the measure found to be inconsistent 
with the Agreement into compliance with the decision of the arbitral tribunal under 
Article 15.12 within the reasonable period of time established in accordance with 
Article 15.13, that Party shall, if so requested, enter into negotiations with the 
complaining Party with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory agreement on 
any necessary compensatory adjustment. 
 
2.  If the arbitral tribunal decides that a Party’s measure is causing nullification 
or impairment in the sense of Annex 15.A and the nullification or impairment is not 
addressed within the reasonable period of time established in accordance with 
Article 15.13, that Party shall, if so requested, enter into negotiations with the 
complaining Party with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory agreement on 
any necessary compensatory adjustment.  
15-9 
  
 
 
3.  A complaining Party may suspend the application of benefits of equivalent 
effect to the responding Party 30 days after the end of the reasonable period of 
time established in accordance with Article 15.13.   Benefits may not be suspended 
while the complaining Party is pursuing negotiations under Paragraphs 1 or 2. 
 
4.  Compensation and the suspension of benefits shall be temporary measures.  
Neither  compensation  nor  the  suspension  of  benefits  is  preferred  to  full 
implementation  of  a  decision  to  bring  a  measure  into  conformity  with  this 
Agreement.  Compensation and suspension of benefits shall only be applied until 
such time as the measure found to be inconsistent with this Agreement has been 
removed, or the Party that must implement the arbitral tribunal’s decision has done 
so, or a mutually satisfactory solution is reached. 
 
5.  In considering what benefits to suspend pursuant to Paragraph 3: 
 
(a)  the complaining Party should first seek to suspend benefits in the same 
sector(s) as that affected by the measure or other matter that the arbitral 
tribunal has found to be inconsistent with the obligations derived of this 
Agreement or to have caused nullification or impairment in the sense of 
Annex 15.A; and  
 
(b)  if the complaining Party considers that it is not practicable or effective to 
suspend benefits in the same sector(s), it may suspend benefits in other 
sectors. The communication in which it announces such a decision shall 
indicate the reasons on which it is based. 
 
6.  Upon written request of the Party concerned, the original arbitral tribunal 
shall determine whether the level of benefits suspended by the complaining Party 
is excessive pursuant to Paragraph 3. If the arbitral tribunal cannot be established 
with its original arbitrators, the proceeding set out in Article 15.7 shall be applied.  
 
7.  The arbitral tribunal shall present its determination within 60 days from the 
request  made  pursuant  to  Paragraph  6,  or  if  an  arbitral  tribunal  cannot  be 
established with its original arbitrators, from the date on which the last arbitrator is 
selected.  The ruling of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding.  It shall be 
delivered to the disputing Parties and be made publicly available.  
 
 
Article 15.16 : Compliance Review 
 
1.  Without prejudice to the procedures in Article 15.15, if the responding Party 
considers that it has eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment 
that the arbitral tribunal found, it may refer the matter to the arbitral tribunal by 
providing written notice to the other Party.  The arbitral tribunal shall issue its report 
on the matter within 90 days after the responding Party provides notice. 
15-10 
  
 
 
2.   If the arbitral tribunal decides that the responding Party has eliminated the 
non-conformity  or  the  nullification  or  impairment,  the  complaining  Party  shall 
promptly reinstate any benefits it has suspended under in Article 15.15.  
 
15-11 
  
 
Annex 15.A 
 
Nullification or Impairment 
 
If  any  Party  considers  that  any  benefits  it  could  reasonably  have  expected  to 
accrue to it under any provision of: 
 
(a)  Chapters 3 through 5 (Trade in Goods, Rules of Origin and Customs 
Procedures); 
 
(b)  Chapter 8 (Technical Barriers to Trade); 
 
(c)  Chapter 11 (Government Procurement); or 
 
(d)  Chapter 12 (Trade in Services), 
 
is being nullified or impaired as a result of the application of any measure that is 
not  inconsistent  with  this  Agreement,  the  Party  may  have  recourse  to  dispute 
settlement under this Chapter. 
 
15-12 
  
 
 
Annex 15.B 
 
Model Rules of Procedure 
for Arbitral Tribunals 
 
 
General provisions 
 
1.  For the purpose of Chapter 15 and this Annex: 
 
arbitral tribunal means an arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Article 15.6 
(Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal); 
 
complaining Party means Party that requests the establishment of an arbitral 
tribunal under Article 15.6 (Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal); 
 
disputing Party or Parties means the Party or Parties to the dispute;  
 
third Party means a Party to this Agreement which has notified its interest in the 
dispute to the Parties to the dispute in accordance with Paragraph 8. 
 
responding Party means a Party that has been complained against pursuant to 
Article 15.6 (Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal). 
 
 
Notifications 
 
2.  Any  request,  notice,  written  submissions  or  other  document  shall  be 
delivered by a Party or the arbitral tribunal by delivery against receipt, registered 
post,  courier,  facsimile  transmission,  telex,  telegram  or  any  other  means  of 
telecommunication that provides a record of the sending thereof. 
 
3.  A disputing Party shall provide a copy of each of its written submissions to 
the other disputing Party or Parties, to a third Party, and to each of the arbitrators.  
A copy of the document shall also be provided in electronic format. 
 
4.  All notifications shall be made and delivered to each disputing Party and any 
third Party. 
 
5.  Minor errors of a clerical nature in any request, notice, written submission or 
other document related to the arbitral tribunal proceeding may be corrected by 
delivery of a new document clearly indicating the changes. 
 
15-13 
  
 
6.  If  the  last  day  for  delivery  of  a  document  falls  on  a  legal  holiday  of  a 
disputing Party or third Party, the document may be delivered on the next business 
day. 
 
 
Commencing the arbitration 
 
7.  Unless  the  disputing  Parties  otherwise  agree,  they  shall  meet  with  the 
arbitral tribunal within 7 days following the composition of the arbitral tribunal in 
order to determine such matters that the disputing Parties or the arbitral tribunal 
deem appropriate, including the remuneration and expenses that shall be paid to 
the  Chair  of  the  arbitral  tribunal,  which  normally  shall  conform  to  the  WTO 
standards. 
 
 
Third Parties 
 
8.  A Party to this Agreement which has an interest in the matter before the 
arbitral tribunal may notify the disputing Parties of this interest no later than 10 
days after the request for the establishment of the arbitral tribunal.  In the case of a 
matter regarding perishable goods an interest has to be notified no later than 
7 days after the request for the establishment of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
9.  A third Party shall have an opportunity to make written submissions to the 
arbitral tribunal and be present at the hearings of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
 
Initial submissions 
 
10.  The complaining Party shall deliver its initial written submission no later than 
20 days after the composition of the arbitral tribunal.  The responding Party shall 
deliver  its  written  counter-submission  no  later  than  20  days  after  the  date  of 
delivery  of  the  initial  written  submission.    A  third  Party  may  deliver  a  written 
submission 7 days after the date of delivery of the counter-submission. 
 
 
Operation of arbitral tribunals 
 
11.  The chair of the arbitral tribunal shall preside at all of its meetings. 
 
12.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  these  rules,  the  arbitral  tribunal  may 
conduct its activities by any means, including telephone, facsimile transmissions or 
computer links. 
 
13.  Only arbitrators may take part in the deliberations of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
15-14 
  
 
14.  The  drafting  of  any  decision  and  ruling  shall  remain  the  exclusive 
responsibility of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
 
15.  Where a procedural question arises that is not covered by these rules, an 
arbitral tribunal may adopt an appropriate procedure that is not inconsistent with 
this Agreement.  
 
16.  When the arbitral tribunal considers that there is a need to modify any time 
period  applicable  in  the  proceeding,  or  to  make  any  other  procedural  or 
administrative adjustment in the proceeding, it shall inform the disputing Parties 
and any third Party in writing of the reasons for the modification or adjustment with 
the indication of the period or adjustment needed. 
 
 
Hearings 
 
17.  The Chair shall fix the date and time of the hearing in consultation with the 
disputing Parties and the other members of the arbitral tribunal.  The Chair shall 
notify in writing to the disputing Parties and any third Party the date, time and 
location  of  the  hearing.    Unless  either  of  the  disputing  Parties  disagrees,  the 
arbitral tribunal may decide not to convene a hearing. 
 
18.   Unless the disputing Parties otherwise agree, the hearing shall be held in 
the responding Party’s territory.  The responding Party shall be in charge of the 
logistical  administration  of  dispute  settlement  proceedings,  in  particular  the 
organisation of hearings, unless otherwise agreed.  
 
19.  The arbitral tribunal may convene additional hearings if the Parties so agree. 
 
20.  All arbitrators shall be present at all hearings. 
 
21.  No later than five days before the date of a hearing, each disputing Party 
and any third Party shall deliver a list of the names of representatives or advisers 
who will be attending the hearing. 
 
21.  The hearings of the arbitral tribunals shall be held in closed session, unless 
the disputing Parties decide otherwise.  If the disputing Parties decide that the 
hearing is open to the public, part of the hearing may however be held in closed 
session, if the arbitral tribunal, on application by the disputing Parties, so decides 
for serious reasons.  In particular, the arbitral tribunal shall meet in closed sessions 
when  the  submission  and  arguments  of  a  disputing  Party  contain  business 
confidential information.  If the hearing is open to the public, the date, time and 
location of the hearing shall also be made publicly available by the disputing Party 
in charge of the logistical administration of the proceeding.  
 
15-15 
  
 
22.   The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  conduct  the  hearing  in  the  following  manner: 
argument of the complaining Party or Parties; argument of the responding Party; 
rebuttal arguments of the disputing Parties; the views of third Parties; the reply of 
the complaining Party; the counter-reply of the responding Party.  The Chair may 
set time limits for oral arguments to ensure that each disputing Party are afforded 
equal time. 
 
23.  The arbitral tribunal may direct questions to any disputing Party or third 
Party at any time during a hearing. 
 
24.  Within 10 days after the date of the hearing, each disputing Party may 
deliver a supplementary written submission responding to any matter that arose 
during the hearing. 
 
 
Questions in writing 
 
25.  The  arbitral  tribunal  may  at  any  time  during  the  proceedings  address 
questions in writing to any disputing Parties and to any third Party.  The arbitral 
tribunal shall deliver the written questions to the disputing Party or Parties and to 
any third Party to whom the questions are addressed. 
 
26.  A  disputing  Party  or  third  Party  to  whom  the  arbitral  tribunal  addresses 
written questions shall deliver a copy of any written reply to the other disputing 
Party or any third Party and to the arbitral tribunal.  Each disputing Party or any 
third Party shall be given the opportunity to provide written comments on the reply 
within 5 days after the date of delivery. 
 
 
Confidentiality 
 
27.  The disputing Parties and third Parties shall maintain the confidentiality of 
the arbitral tribunal’s hearings, to the extent that the arbitral tribunal holds the 
hearing in closed session under rule 21.  Each disputing Party and third Party shall 
treat as confidential any information submitted by any other disputing or third Party 
to the arbitral tribunal which that Party has designated as confidential. Where a 
Party to a dispute submits a confidential version of its written submissions to the 
arbitral tribunal, it shall also, upon request of the other disputing Party, provide a 
non-confidential summary of the information contained in its submissions that could 
be disclosed to the public, no later than 15 days after the hearing, whichever is 
later.  Nothing in these rules shall preclude a disputing Party or third Party from 
disclosing statements of its own positions to the public. 
 
 
15-16 
  
 
Ex parte contacts 
 
28.  The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  not  meet  or  contact  a  disputing  Party  in  the 
absence of the other disputing Parties. 
 
29  No disputing Party may contact any arbitrator in relation to the dispute in the 
absence of the other disputing Parties or the other arbitrators. 
 
30.  No arbitrator may discuss an aspect of the subject matter of the proceeding 
with a disputing Party or Parties in the absence of the other arbitrators. 
 
 
Role of experts 
 
31.   Upon request of a disputing Party or on its own initiative, the arbitral tribunal 
may obtain information and technical advice from any person or body that it deems 
appropriate.  Any information so obtained shall be submitted to the Parties for 
comments. 
 
32.   When a request is made for a written report of an expert, any time period 
applicable  to  the  arbitral  tribunal  proceeding  shall  be  suspended  for  a  period 
beginning on the date of delivery of the request and ending on the date the report 
is delivered to the arbitral tribunal. 
 
 
Amicus curiae submissions 
 
33.  The arbitral tribunal shall have the authority to accept and consider amicus 
curiae submissions from any persons and entities in the territories of the disputing 
Parties  and  from  interested  persons  and  entities  outside  the  territory  of  the 
disputing Parties. 
 
34.  Any such submissions shall fulfil the following requirements: be made within 
10 days following the composition of the arbitral tribunal; are concise and in no 
case longer than 15 typed pages, included any annexes; and are directly relevant 
to the factual and legal issue under consideration by the arbitral tribunal.  
 
35.  The submission shall contain a description of the person, whether natural or 
legal, making the submission, including the nature of its activities and the source of 
its financing, and specify the nature of the interest that that person has in the 
arbitration proceeding.  
 
36.  The arbitral tribunal shall list in its ruling all the submissions that it has 
received and that conform to the provisions of the above rules.  
 
 
15-17 
  
 
Cases of urgency 
 
37.  In cases of urgency referred to in Article 15.4 (Consultations), the arbitral 
tribunal shall appropriately adjust the time periods mentioned in these rules. 
 
 
Translation and interpretation 
 
38.  The  working  language  of  the  dispute  settlement  proceedings  shall  be 
English, except where the responding Party has Spanish as its official language, in 
which case the working languages shall be English and Spanish. 
 
39.  Written submissions, documents, oral arguments or presentations at the 
hearings, initial and final reports of the arbitral tribunal, as well as all other written 
or oral communications between the disputing Parties and the arbitral tribunal, 
shall be conducted in the working language or languages. 
 
40.  The costs incurred to prepare a translation of an arbitral tribunal ruling shall 
be borne equally by the Parties. 
 
41.   Any Party may provide comments on a translated version of a document 
that is prepared in accordance with these rules. 
 
 
Computation of time 
 
42.   Where anything under this Agreement or these rules is to be done, or the 
arbitral tribunal requires anything to be done, within a number of days after, before 
or of a specified date or event, the specified date or the date on which the specified 
event occurs shall not be included in calculating that number of days. 
 
43.   Where, by reason of the operation of rule 6, a Party receives a document on 
a date other than the date on which the same document is received by the other 
Party, any period of time the calculation of which is dependent on such receipt 
shall be calculated from the date of receipt of the last such document. 
 
 
15-18 
  
 
CHAPTER 16  
 
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP 
 
 
Article 16.1: Definitions  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, primary industry encompasses activities 
in  the  agriculture  and  fisheries  sectors  (including  activities  in  production, 
harvesting, processing and manufacturing of food products and their derivatives) 
and the forestry sector. 
 
 
Article 16.2: Objectives 
 
1.       The Parties agree to establish a framework for cooperation between two or 
more  of  the  Parties  as  a  means  to  expand  and  enhance  the  benefits  of  this 
Agreement for building a strategic economic partnership between them. 
 
2.  The Parties will establish close cooperation aimed inter alia at: 
 
(a)  strengthening and building on existing cooperative relationships among 
the  Parties,    including  a    focus  on  innovation,  research  and 
development; 
 
(b)    creating  new  opportunities  for  trade  and  investment,  promoting 
competitiveness and innovation including the involvement of public and 
private sectors; 
 
(c)  supporting  the  important  role  of  the  private  sector  in  promoting  and 
building strategic alliances to encourage mutual economic growth and 
development; 
 
(d)  encouraging the presence of the Parties and their goods and services in 
the respective markets of Asia, Pacific and Latin America; and 
 
(e)  increasing the level of and deepening cooperation activities among the 
Parties in areas of mutual interest.  
 
 
Article 16.3: Scope   
 
1.  The Parties affirm the importance of all forms of cooperation, with particular 
attention  given  to  economic,  scientific,  technological,  educational,  cultural  and 
primary  industry  cooperation  in  contributing  towards  implementation  of  the 
16-1 
  
 
objectives and principles of this Agreement.  Cooperation among the Parties may 
be extended to other areas as agreed by the Parties.   
 
2.  Possible  areas  of  cooperation  will  be  developed  through  Implementing 
Arrangements.   
 
3.  Cooperation among the Parties should contribute to achieving the objectives 
of  the  Trans-Pacific  Strategic  Economic  Partnership  Agreement  through  the 
identification and development of innovative cooperation programmes capable of 
providing added value to their relationships.  
 
4.  Cooperation  among  the  Parties  under  this  Chapter  will  supplement  the 
cooperation and cooperative activities among the Parties set out in other Chapters 
of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 16.4: Economic Cooperation 
 
1.  The aims of economic cooperation will be: 
 
(a)  to build on existing agreements or arrangements already in place for 
trade and economic cooperation; and 
 
(b)  to advance and strengthen trade and economic relations among the 
Parties.  
 
2.  In pursuit of the objectives in Paragraph 1, the Parties will encourage and 
facilitate, as appropriate, the following activities, including, but not limited to: 
 
(a)   policy dialogue and regular exchanges of information and views on ways 
to promote and expand trade in goods and services among the Parties; 
 
(b)  keeping each other informed of important economic and trade issues, 
and any impediments to furthering their economic cooperation; 
 
(c)  providing  assistance  and  facilities  to  businesspersons  and  trade 
missions that visit each other’s country with the knowledge and support 
of the relevant agencies;  
 
(d)  supporting dialogue and exchanges of experience among the respective 
business communities of the Parties;  
 
(e)   establishing and developing mechanisms for providing information and 
identifying opportunities for business cooperation, trade in goods and 
services, investment, and government procurement; 
 
16-2 
  
 
(f)     stimulating  and  facilitating  actions  of  public  and/or  private  sectors  in 
areas of economic interest, including to explore opportunities in third 
markets; and 
 
(g)    working together to promote the use of English and other languages as 
tools for small and medium enterprises, and in the use of information 
technology tools to assist the learning process, as agreed by the APEC 
Economic Leaders at their 12th meeting. 
 
 
Article 16.5: Cooperation in Research, Science and Technology 
 
1.  The aims of cooperation in research, science and technology, carried out in 
the mutual interest of all Parties and in compliance with their policies, particularly 
as regards the rules for use of intellectual property resulting from research, will be: 
 
(a)   to build on existing agreements or arrangements already in place for 
cooperation in research, science and technology;   
 
(b)  to  encourage,  where  appropriate,  government  agencies,  research 
institutions,  universities,  private  companies  and  other  research 
organisations in each other’s country to  conclude direct arrangements 
in support of cooperative activities, programmes or projects within the 
framework of this Agreement; and 
 
(c)  to  focus  cooperative  activities  towards  sectors  where  mutual  and 
complementary interests exist. 
 
2.  In pursuit of the objectives in Paragraph 1, the Parties will encourage and 
facilitate, as appropriate, the following activities, including, but not limited to:  
 
(a)  identifying  strategies,  in  consultation  with  universities  and  research 
centres, that encourage joint postgraduate studies and research visits; 
 
(b)  exchange of scientists, researchers and technical experts; 
 
(c)  exchange of information and documentation; 
 
(d)  promotion  of  public/private  sector  partnerships  in  the  support  of  the 
development of innovative products and services; and 
 
(e)   cooperation in  regional and other governmental and nongovernmental 
forums in areas of mutual interest. 
 
 
16-3 
  
 
Article 16.6: Education 
 
1.  The aims of education cooperation will be: 
 
(a)  to build on existing agreements or arrangements already in place for 
cooperation in education; and 
 
(b)  to  promote  networking,  mutual  understanding  and  close  working 
relationships in the area of education among the Parties.   
 
2.  In pursuit of the objectives in Paragraph 1, the Parties will encourage and 
facilitate,  as  appropriate,  exchanges  between  and  among  their  respective 
education-related agencies, institutions, organisations, in fields such as: 
 
(a)  education quality assurance processes; 
 
(b)  on-line and distance education at all levels;  
 
(c)  primary and secondary education systems; 
 
(d)  higher education; 
 
(e)  technical education and vocational training; 
 
(f)  industry collaboration for technical and vocational training; and  
 
(g)  teacher training and development. 
 
3.  Cooperation in education can focus on: 
 
(a)  the exchange of information such as teaching and curriculum materials, 
teaching aids, and demonstration materials, as well as the organisation 
of relevant specialised exhibitions and seminars; 
 
(b)  joint planning and implementation of programs and projects, and joint 
coordination of targeted activities in agreed fields;  
 
(c)  development of collaborative training, joint research and development, 
across graduate and postgraduate studies; 
 
(d)  the exchange of teaching staff, administrators, researchers and students 
in relation to programmes that will be of mutual benefit;  
 
(e)  gaining understanding of each Parties’ education systems and policies 
including  information  relevant  to  the  interpretation  and  evaluation  of 
qualifications, potentially leading to discussions between institutions of 
16-4 
  
 
higher learning on academic credit transfer and the possibility of mutual 
recognition of qualifications;    
 
(f)    collaboration  on  the  development  of  innovative  quality  assurance  
resources  to  support  learning  and  assessment,  and  the  professional 
development  of  teachers  and  trainers  in  training  and  vocational 
education; and   
 
(g)    encouraging and facilitating the development of public and / or private 
ventures in education.  
 
 
Article 16.7: Cultural Cooperation 
 
  The aims of cultural cooperation will be to: 
 
(a)  build  on  existing  agreements  or  arrangements  already  in  place  for 
cultural cooperation; and 
 
(b)  promote the exchange of information and practice among the Parties.  
 
 
Article 16.8: Primary Industry 
 
1.  The  aims  of  cooperation  in  primary  industry,  carried  out  in  the  mutual 
interest of all Parties and in compliance with their policies, will be: 
 
(a)   to build on existing Agreements or Arrangements already in place for 
cooperation in agriculture and forestry;   
 
(b)  to encourage and promote better understanding between the primary 
sectors in each country; 
 
(c)  to  encourage,  where  appropriate,  the  development  of  scientific 
knowledge  and  technical  cooperation  among  government  agencies, 
research institutions, universities, private companies and other research 
organisations  in  each  others’  countries  and  to  conclude  direct 
arrangements  in  support  of  cooperative  activities,  programmes  or 
projects within the framework of this Agreement;  
 
(d)  to  direct  cooperative  activities  towards  sectors  where  mutual  and 
complementary interests exist;  and 
 
(e)    to  promote  international  trade  liberalisation  in  the  primary  industry 
sectors, develop trade and promote commercial partnerships, including 
common projects in third countries. 
16-5 
  
 
 
2.  In pursuit of the objectives in Paragraph 1, the Parties will encourage and 
facilitate, as appropriate, the following activities in the primary industry sectors 
including, but not limited to:  
 
(a)  encouraging the expansion of opportunities for contact;  
 
(b)  promoting the exchange of information, ideas and research;  
 
(c)  encouraging specific industry exchanges and joint ventures, including in 
relation to research, to develop the primary industry sectors; 
 
(d)  encouraging universities in their countries to strengthen their links in the 
area  of  primary  industry  sectors  including  through  the  exploration  of 
multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional degree courses; and 
 
(e)  encouraging the promotion of primary industry sectors related education 
services and other activities.  
 
3.  To facilitate cooperation in the primary industry sectors, the Parties will also 
work towards: 
 
(a)  promoting  compliance  with,  and  enforcement  of,  international  rules 
relating to trade in primary industry sectors products;  
 
(b)  promoting  transparency  and  public  participation  in  decision-making 
relating to the Parties’ primary industry sectors; and 
 
(c)  identifying  and  resolving  issues  that  hamper  the  effectiveness  of 
cooperation in the primary industry sectors.  
 
 
Article 16.9: Mechanisms for Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties will designate a contact point to facilitate communication on 
possible  cooperation  activities.    The  contact  point  will  work  with  government 
agencies, private sector representatives and educational and research institutions 
in the operation of this Chapter. 
 
2.  The Parties agree that the mechanisms for cooperation will take the form of: 
 
(a)  regular meetings of the Commission to discuss cooperative areas of 
interest; and 
 
(b)  meetings as required between the relevant institutions (including, but not 
limited  to,  the  relevant  government  agencies,  Crown  Research 
16-6 
  
 
Institutes,  and  universities)  of  the  Parties  to  help  foster  closer 
cooperation in thematic areas. 
 
3.  The  Parties  will  make  maximum  use  of  diplomatic  channels  to  promote 
dialogue and cooperation consistent with this Agreement.  
 
 
Article 16.10: Cooperation with Non-Parties 
 
The  Parties  recognise  the  value  of  international  cooperation  for  the 
promotion of sustainable development and agree to develop, where appropriate, 
projects of mutual interest, with non-Parties.   
 
 
Article 16.11: Resources   
 
With the aim of contributing to fulfilling the cooperation objectives of this 
Agreement, the Parties commit themselves to providing, within the limits of their 
own  capacities  and  through  their  own  channels,  the  appropriate  resources, 
including financial resources.    
 
 
Article 16.12: Specific Functions for the Commission in Cooperation Matters  
 
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 17.2 (Functions of the Commission) 
the Commission shall have, in particular, the following functions: 
 
(a)  oversight of the implementation of the cooperation framework agreed by 
the Parties;  
 
(b)  encouraging the Parties to undertake cooperation activities under the 
cooperation framework agreed by the Parties;  
 
(c)  making  recommendations  on  the  cooperation  activities  under  this 
Chapter, in accordance with the strategic priorities of the Parties; and 
 
(d)  review, through regular reporting from each Party, the operation of this 
Chapter and the application and fulfillment of its objectives.   
 
 
16-7 
  
 
CHAPTER 17  
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article  17.1:  Establishment  of  the  Trans-Pacific  Strategic  Economic 
Partnership Commission 
 
The  Parties  hereby  establish  a  Trans-Pacific  Strategic  Economic 
Partnership Commission (Commission) which may meet at the level of Ministers or 
senior  officials,  as  mutually  determined  by  the  Parties.    Each  Party  shall  be 
responsible for the composition of its delegation.  
 
 
Article 17. 2: Functions of the Commission 
 
1.  The Commission shall:  
 
(a)  consider any matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement;  
 
(b)  review within 2 years of entry into force of this Agreement and at least 
every  3  years  thereafter  the  economic  relationship  and  partnership 
among the Parties, consider any proposal to amend this Agreement or 
its  Annexes  and  otherwise  oversee  the  further  elaboration  of  this 
Agreement; 
 
(c)  supervise the work of all Committees and working groups established 
under this Agreement; 
 
(d)  explore  measures  for  the  further  expansion  of  trade  and  investment 
among  the  Parties  and  identify  appropriate  areas  of  commercial, 
industrial and technical cooperation between relevant enterprises and 
organisations of the Parties; and  
 
(e)  consider  any  other  matter  that  may  affect  the  operation  of  this 
Agreement.  
 
2.  The Commission may:  
 
(a)  establish  committees  and  working  groups,  refer  matters  to  any 
committee or working group for advice, and consider matters raised by 
any committee or working group; 
 
17-1 
  
 
(b)  further the implementation of the Agreement’s objectives by approving 
any modifications1 of, inter alia: 
 
(i)  the Schedules contained in Annex I (Elimination of Customs 
Duties), by accelerating the elimination of customs duties; 
 
(ii)  the rules of origin established in Annex II (Specific Rules of 
Origin); or 
 
(iii)  the  lists  of  entities  and  covered  goods  and  services  and 
thresholds contained in Annexes 11.A and 11.C of the Chapter 
11 (Government Procurement). 
 
(c)  further  the  implementation  of  the  Agreement’s  objectives  through 
Implementing Arrangements; 
 
(d)  seek to resolve differences or disputes that may arise regarding the 
interpretation or application of this Agreement;  
(e)  seek the advice of non-governmental persons or groups on any matter 
falling within its responsibilities where this would help the Commission 
make an informed decision; and 
(f)  take such other action in the exercise of its functions as the Parties may 
agree. 
 
 
Article 17.3: Rules of Procedure of the Commission 
  
1.  The Commission may take decisions on any matter within its functions as 
set out in Article 17.2 by mutual agreement of those Parties present at the meeting 
of the Commission.  Any decision affecting a Party shall only be taken by the 
Commission with the express agreement of that Party.   
 
2.  The  Commission  shall  convene  annually,  or  at  such  other  times  as  the 
Parties may mutually agree.  Annual sessions of the Commission shall be chaired 
successively by each Party.   Other sessions of the Commission shall be chaired 
by the Party convening the meeting.   
 
                                                           
1  The acceptance of any modification by a Party is subject to the completion of any necessary 
domestic legal procedures of that Party.  Chile shall implement the actions of the Commission 
through Acuerdos de Ejecución, in accordance with article 50, numeral 1, second paragraph, of the 
of the Constitución Política de la República de Chile.  
17-2 
  
 
3.  The Party chairing a session of the Commission shall provide any necessary 
administrative support for such session.  Decisions of the Commission shall be 
notified to the Parties by the Party chairing that session of the Commission.   
17-3 
  
 
CHAPTER 18  
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 18.1: Annexes and Footnotes 
 
The Annexes and footnotes to this Agreement shall constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 18.2: Relation to Other International Agreements 
 
Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  derogate  from  the  existing  rights  and 
obligations  of  a  Party  under  the  WTO  Agreement  or  any  other  multilateral  or 
bilateral agreement to which it is a party. 
 
 
Article 18.3: Succession of Treaties or International Agreements 
 
Any  reference  in  this  Agreement  to  any  other  treaty  or  international 
agreement shall be made in the same terms to its successor treaty or international 
agreement to which a Party is party. 
 
 
Article 18.4: Application 
 
Each Party is fully responsible for the observance of all provisions in this 
Agreement and shall take such reasonable measures as may be available to it to 
 
ensure their observance by local government and authorities.1 
 
 
Article 18.5: Distinctive Products 
 
1.  The Parties shall endeavour after one year following the entry into force of 
this Agreement, that they will consider the recognition of distinctive products.2   
 
2.  If any Party grants in the future to a third party recognition of distinctive 
products, it shall extend this recognition automatically to it on a non discrminatory 
basis.    
 
 
                                                           
1 For greater certainty, this does not pre-judge the rights of the Parties under Chapter 15 (Dispute 
Settlement) and specifically Article 15.6(3) (Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal). 
2  With respect to Chile, it will be seeking the recognition as distinctive products of Chile: Pisco 
Chileno (Chilean Pisco), Pajarete, and Vino Asoleado. 
18-1 
  
 
Article 18.6: Disclosure of Information 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require any Party to furnish 
or allow access to information the disclosure of which it considers would: 
 
(a)   be contrary to the public interest as determined by its legislation;  
 
(b)  be contrary to any of its legislation including but not limited to those 
protecting  personal  privacy  or  the  financial  affairs  and  accounts  of 
individual customers of financial institutions;  
 
(c)  impede law enforcement; or 
 
(d)  which  would  prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests  of  particular 
enterprises, public or private. 
 
 
Article 18.7: Confidentiality 
 
Where a Party provides information to another Party in accordance with this 
Agreement and designates the information as confidential, the other Party shall 
maintain the confidentiality of the information.  Such information shall be used only 
for the purposes specified, and shall not be otherwise disclosed without the specific 
permission of the Party providing the information, except to the extent that it may 
be required to be disclosed in the context of judicial proceedings.  
18-2 
  
 
CHAPTER 19  
 
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS 
 
 
Article 19.1: General Exceptions 
 
1.  For the purposes of Chapters 3 through 8 (Trade in Goods, Rules of Origin, 
Customs Procedures, Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, Technical Barriers to 
Trade and Trade Remedies), Article XX of GATT 1994 and its interpretive notes 
are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article XX(b) of 
GATT 1994 include environmental measures necessary to protect human, animal 
or plant life or health, and that Article XX(g) of GATT 1994 applies to measures 
relating to the conservation of living and non-living exhaustible natural resources. 
 
3.  For greater certainty, the Parties understand that the measures referred to 
in Article XX(f) of GATT 1994 include measures necessary to protect specific sites 
of historical or archaeological value, or to support creative arts of national value.1 
   
4.  For the purposes of Chapter 12 (Trade in Services), Article XIV of GATS 
(including its footnotes) is incorporated into and made part of this Agreement,  
mutatis mutandis.  The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article 
XIV(b)  of  GATS  include  environmental  measures  necessary  to  protect  human, 
animal or plant life or health. 
 
5.  For  the  purposes  of  Chapter  12  (Trade  in  Services),  subject  to  the 
requirement  that  such  measures  are  not  applied  in  a  manner  which  would 
constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between the Parties 
where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on trade in services, nothing 
in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by a 
Party of measures necessary to protect national works or specific sites of historical 
or archaeological value, or to support creative arts of national value.1 
 
                                                           
1 “Creative arts” include: the performing arts – including theatre, dance and music – visual arts and 
craft,  literature,  film  and  video,  language  arts,  creative  on-line  content,  indigenous  traditional 
practice and contemporary cultural expression, and digital interactive media and hybrid art work, 
including those that use new technologies to transcend discrete art form divisions.  The term 
encompasses those activities involved in the presentation, execution and interpretation of the arts; 
and the study and technical development of these art forms and activities. 
19-1 
  
 
Article 19.2: Security Exceptions 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  to  require  a  Party  to  furnish  or  allow  access  to  any  information  the 
disclosure of which it determines to be contrary to its essential security 
interests; or 
 
(b)  to prevent a Party from taking any actions which it considers necessary 
for the protection of its essential security interests 2 
 
(i)   relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of  war 
and to such traffic in other goods and materials or relating to the 
supply  of  services  as  carried  on,  directly  or  indirectly,  for  the 
purpose of supplying or provisioning a military establishment, 
 
(ii)   taken in time of war or other emergency in international relations, 
or 
 
(iii)   relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the materials 
from which they are derived; or 
 
(c)   to prevent a Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations 
under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 
 
2.  The Commission shall be informed to the fullest extent possible of measures 
taken under Subparagraphs 1(b) and (c) and of their termination.  
 
 
Article 19.3: Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
1.  Where a Party is in serious balance of payments and external financial 
difficulties or threat thereof, it may adopt or maintain restrictive measures with 
regard to trade in goods and in services including on payments and transfers. 
 
2.  Restrictions adopted or maintained under Paragraph 1 shall: 
 
(a)  be consistent with the conditions established in the WTO Agreement 
and  consistent  with  the  Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  International 
Monetary Fund; 
 
                                                           
2 For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from taking 
any action which it considers necessary for the protection of critical infrastructure from deliberate 
attempts intended to disable or degrade such infrastructure. 
19-2 
  
 
(b)  avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic and financial 
interests of the other Parties; 
 
(c)  not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances described in 
Paragraph 1; 
 
(d)  be temporary and be phased out progressively as the situation specified 
in Paragraph 1 improves; and 
 
(e)  be applied on a non discriminatory basis. 
 
3.  In  determining  the  incidence  of  such  restrictions,  the  Parties  may  give 
priority  to  economic  sectors  which  are  more  essential  to  their  economic 
development.  However, such restrictions shall not be adopted or maintained for 
the purpose of protecting a particular sector. 
 
4.  Any restrictions adopted or maintained by a Party under paragraph 1, or any 
changes therein, shall be promptly notified to the other Party. 
 
5.  The Party adopting or maintaining any restrictions under paragraph 1 shall 
promptly commence consultations with the other Parties in order to review the 
measures adopted or maintained by it. 
 
 
Article 19.4: Taxation Measures 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Article:   
 
tax convention means a convention for the avoidance of double taxation or other 
international taxation agreement or arrangement; and 
 
taxation  measures  do  not  include  a  “customs  duty”  as  defined  in  Article  2.1 
(Definitions of General Application). 
 
2.  Except as provided in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shall apply to 
taxation measures. 
 
3.  This Agreement shall only grant rights or impose obligations with respect to 
taxation measures where corresponding rights or obligations are also granted or 
imposed under Article III of GATT 1994 and, with respect to services, Articles I and 
XIV (d) of GATS where applicable.  
 
4.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  affect  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the 
Parties under any tax convention in force between the Parties. In the event of any 
inconsistency relating to a taxation measure between this Agreement and such tax 
convention, the latter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.  In the case of 
19-3 
  
 
a  tax  convention  between  the  Parties,  the  competent  authorities  under  that 
convention shall have sole responsibility for determining whether any inconsistency 
exists between this Agreement and that convention. 
 
Article 19.5: Treaty of Waitangi 
 
1.  Provided  that  such  measures  are  not  used  as  a  means  of  arbitrary  or 
unjustified discrimination against persons of the other Parties or as a disguised 
restriction on trade in goods and services, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude 
the adoption by New Zealand of measures it deems necessary to accord more 
favourable treatment to Maori in respect of matters covered by this Agreement 
including in fulfilment of its obligations under the Treaty of Waitangi. 
 
2.  The Parties agree that the interpretation of the Treaty of Waitangi, including 
as to the nature of the rights and obligations arising under it, shall not be subject to 
the  dispute  settlement  provisions  of  this  Agreement.    Chapter  15  (Dispute 
Settlement) shall otherwise apply to this Article.  An arbitral tribunal established 
under Article 15.6 (Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal) may be requested by 
Brunei Darussalam, Chile or Singapore to determine only whether any measure 
(referred to in Paragraph 1) is inconsistent with their rights under this Agreement. 
 
 
19-4 
  
 
CHAPTER 20  
 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 20.1: Investment Negotiations 
   
Unless otherwise agreed, no later than 2 years after entry into force of this 
Agreement the Parties shall commence negotiations with a view to including a 
chapter on investment in this Agreement on a mutually advantageous basis. 
 
 
Article 20.2: Financial Services Negotiations   
 
Unless otherwise agreed, no later than 2 years after the entry into force of 
this Agreement the Parties shall commence negotiations with a view to including a 
self-contained  chapter  on  financial  services  in  this  Agreement  on  a  mutually 
advantageous basis. 
 
 
Article 20.3: Signature 
 
1.  This Agreement shall be open for signature by Brunei Darussalam, Chile, 
New Zealand and Singapore and shall remain open for signature for a period of 
6 months from 15 June 2005. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by 
signatories. 
 
 
 
Article 20.4: Entry into Force 
 
1.  This  Agreement  shall  enter  into  force  on  1  January  2006  for  those 
signatories  which  have  deposited  an  Instrument  of  Ratification,  Acceptance  or 
Approval provided that at least two signatories have deposited such instrument by 
that date. 
 
2.  In  the  event  that  only  one  signatory  has  deposited  an  Instrument  of 
Ratification, Acceptance or Approval before 1 January 2006, this Agreement shall 
enter into force 30 days after the deposit of the second such instrument. 
 
3.  For signatories that deposit an Instrument of Ratification, Acceptance or 
Approval  after  1  January  2006,  the  Agreement  shall  enter  into  force  30  days 
following the date of deposit of such instrument. 
 
 
20-1 
  
 
Article 20.5: Brunei Darussalam 
 
1.  Subject to Paragraphs 2 to 6, this Agreement shall be provisionally applied  
in respect of Brunei Darussalam from 1 January 2006, or 30 days after the deposit 
of an instrument accepting provisional application of this Agreement, whichever is 
the later. 
  
2.  The provisional application referred to in Paragraph 1 shall not apply to 
Chapter 11 (Government Procurement) and Chapter 12 (Trade in Services). 
  
3.  The obligations of Chapter 9 (Competition Policy) shall only be applicable to 
Brunei Darussalam if it develops a competition law and establishes a competition 
authority.    Notwithstanding  the  above,  Brunei  Darussalam  shall  adhere  to  the 
APEC Principles to Enhance Competition and Regulatory Reform.   
 
4.  The Commission shall consider whether to accept the Annexes for Brunei 
Darussalam under Chapter 11 (Government Procurement) and Chapter 12 (Trade 
in Services), no later than two years after the entry into force of this Agreement in 
accordance with Article 20.4(1) or (2), unless the Commission otherwise agrees to 
a later date. 
 
5.  Upon a decision of the Commission accepting the Annexes referred to in 
Paragraph  4,  Brunei  Darussalam  shall  deposit  an  Instrument  of  Ratification, 
Acceptance or Approval within two months of the decision by the Commission. The 
Agreement shall enter into force for Brunei Darussalam 30 days after the deposit of 
such instrument 
 
6.  Unless the Commission decides otherwise, if the conditions in Paragraph 4 
or 5 are not met, the Agreement shall no longer be provisionally applied to Brunei 
Darussalam. 
 
 
Article 20.6: Accession 
 
1.  This Agreement is open to accession on terms to be agreed among the 
Parties, by any APEC Economy or other State.  The terms of such accession shall 
take into account the circumstances of that APEC Economy or other State, in 
particular with respect to timetables for liberalisation.  
 
2.  The agreement on the terms of accession shall enter into force 30 days 
following the date of deposit with the depositary of an Instrument of Accession 
which indicates acceptance or approval of such terms. 
 
 
20-2 
  
 
Article 20.7: Amendments 
 
1.  The Parties may agree on any modification of or addition to this Agreement. 
 
2.  When so agreed, and approved in accordance with the applicable legal 
procedures of each Party, a modification or addition shall constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement. 
 
3.  If any provision of the WTO Agreement that the Parties have incorporated 
into this Agreement is amended, the Parties shall consult on whether to amend this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 20.8: Withdrawal 
 
  Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement.  Such withdrawal shall take 
effect upon the expiration of six months from the date on which written notice of 
withdrawal is received by the Depositary. If a Party withdraws, the Agreement shall 
remain in force for the remaining Parties. 
 
 
Article 20.9: Depositary State and Functions 
 
1.  The original of this Agreement shall be deposited with the Government of 
New Zealand which is hereby designated as the Depositary of this Agreement.   
 
2.  The Depositary shall transmit certified copies of this Agreement and any 
amendments to this Agreement to all signatory States, acceding APEC Economies 
and other acceding States. 
 
3.  The Depositary shall notify all signatory States, acceding APEC Economies 
and other acceding States of: 
 
(a)  each signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to this 
Agreement in accordance with Articles 20.3, 20.4, and 20.6;  
 
(b)  the instrument accepting provisional application in accordance with 
Article 20.5; 
 
(c)  the respective dates on which the Agreement enters into force in 
accordance with Article 20.4, 20.5 and 20.6; and 
 
(d)  any  notification  of  withdrawal  received  in  accordance  with  Article 
20.8. 
 
 
20-3 
  
 
4.  Following entry into force of this Agreement, the Depositary shall transmit a 
certified  true  copy  of  this  Agreement  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations  for  registration  and  publication  in  accordance  with  Article  102  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.  The Depositary shall likewise transmit certified true 
copies of any amendments which enter into force. 
 
 
Article 20.10: Authentic Texts 
 
The English and Spanish texts of this Agreement are equally authentic.  In 
the event of divergence, the English text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned,  being  duly  authorised  by  their 
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement. 
 
 
 
  DONE at, ………………………… on ……………………….. 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam        For the Republic of Chile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For New Zealand          For the Republic of Singapore 
20-4 
 