 
 
CHAPTER 14 
 
COMPETITION 
 
Article 1 
Basic Principles 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the importance of co-operation 
in  the  promotion  of  competition,  economic  efficiency, 
consumer  welfare  and  the  curtailment  of  anti-competitive 
practices. 
 
2.  The  Parties  recognise  the  significant  differences  in 
capacity  between  ASEAN  Member  States,  Australia  and 
New Zealand in the area of competition policy. 
 
3.  The Parties respect the sovereign rights of each Party 
to develop, set, administer and enforce its own competition 
laws and policies. 
 
4.  Nothing  in  this  Chapter  requires  a  Party  to  develop 
specific  competition  related  measures  to  address  anti-
competitive  practices,  or  prevents  a  Party  from  adopting 
policies  in  other  fields,  for  example  to  promote  economic 
development. 
 
Article 2 
Co-operation 
 
1.  The  Parties  may  engage  in  co-operation  activities 
consistent  with  Article  1  (Basic  Principles)  in  the  field  of 
competition, including: 
 
(a)  exchange of experience regarding the promotion 
and enforcement of competition law and policy; 
 
(b)  exchange of publicly available information about 
competition law and policy; 
  193 
 
(c)  exchange of officials for training purposes; 
 
(d)  exchange  of  consultants  and  experts  on 
competition law and policy; 
 
(e)  participation of officials as lecturers, consultants, 
or participants at training courses on competition 
law and policy; 
 
(f)  participation of officials in advocacy programmes; 
 
(g)  other related activities following the introduction 
of a competition law in a Party; and 
 
(h)  any  other  form  of  technical  co-operation  as 
agreed upon by the Parties. 
 
2.  Mindful of this, where implementation of this Chapter is 
inhibited by capacity constraints, Australia and New Zealand 
may provide co-operation as they deem appropriate to assist 
ASEAN  Member  States  with  such  implementation.  Co-
operation is subject to competition policy-related needs being 
identified and the availability of resources, having regards to 
respective Parties’ laws and regulations. 
 
Article 3 
Contact Points 
 
To  ensure  that  technical  co-operation  under  this  Chapter 
occurs  on  an  ongoing  basis,  the  Parties  shall  designate 
contact  points  for  technical  co-operation  and  information 
exchange under this Chapter. 
  194 
 
Article 4 
Non-Application of Chapter 17 (Consultations and 
Dispute Settlement) 
 
Chapter 17 (Consultations and Dispute Settlement) shall not 
apply to any matter arising under this Chapter. 
  195