SECOND PROTOCOL AMENDING THE 
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AGREEMENT  
BETWEEN 
THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
AND  
THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE 
 
 
The Republic of India and the Republic of Singapore (hereinafter referred to in 
this Protocol as “the Parties”), 
 
HAVING UNDERTAKEN a general review of the Comprehensive Economic 
Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of India and the Republic of 
Singapore signed in New Delhi on 29 June 2005 (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Agreement”), pursuant to Article 16.3 of the Agreement; 
 
RECALLING the Protocol Amending the Comprehensive Economic Partnership 
Agreement between the Republic of India and the Republic of Singapore signed 
in New Delhi on 20 December 2007, pursuant to Article 16.7 of the Agreement;  
 
AGREEING to further accelerate the reduction and/or elimination of customs 
duties pursuant to Article 2.3 of the Agreement, as well as to make certain 
amendments to Chapter 3 of the Agreement, and the Annexes thereto; 
 
DECIDING to conclude a second Protocol to amend the Agreement, pursuant to 
Article 16.7 of the Agreement, to reflect the aforesaid agreements, 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Article 2.3 of the Agreement shall be amended by adding the phrase “and 
Annex 2A Ter” immediately after the expression “Annex 2A Bis” 
 
 
Article 2 
 
Annex 2A Ter, as attached to this Protocol, shall be inserted into the 
Agreement immediately after Annex 2A Bis. 
 
 
Article 3 
 
Article 2.7 (Anti-Dumping) of the Agreement shall be amended by adding, 
after Article 2.7.4, the following: 
 
“ARTICLE 2.7.5: EXEMPTION FROM INVESTIGATION AFTER TERMINATION 
 
1.  Where an anti-dumping investigation in respect of goods from the other 
Party is terminated with negative final determination, no investigation shall be 
initiated on the same goods by the importing Party within one year from the date 
of termination of the previous investigation. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the investigating authority of the importing 
Party may initiate an investigation in an exceptional circumstance. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.7.6: LESSER DUTY RULE 
 
 
If a Party takes a decision to impose an anti-dumping duty in respect of 
goods from the other Party pursuant to Article 9.1 of the Anti-Dumping 
Agreement, it shall apply a duty less than the margin of dumping where such 
lesser duty would be adequate to remove the injury to the domestic industry. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.7.7: PROHIBITION OF ZEROING 
 
 
When dumping margins are established, assessed, or reviewed by a Party in 
any anti-dumping proceeding provided in the Anti-Dumping Agreement, all 
individual margins, whether positive or negative, shall be counted toward the 
average regardless of the comparison bases provided for under Article 2.4.2 of 
the Anti-Dumping Agreement.” 
 
 
Article 4 
 
 
Article 3.4 (Not Wholly Obtained or Produced) of the Agreement shall be 
replaced with the following: 
 
“ARTICLE 3.4: NOT WHOLLY OBTAINED OR PRODUCED 
 
1. 
Within the meaning of paragraph (b) of Article 3.2 and subject to the 
provisions of Articles 3.6, 3.9 and that the final process of manufacturing is 
performed within the territory of the exporting Party, products would be 
considered as originating if: 
 
(a)       (i)  
the total value of the materials, parts or produce originating 
from countries other than the Parties or of undetermined 
origin used in the manufacture of the product does not exceed 
65% of the FOB value of the product so produced or obtained; 
and, 
 
(ii)  
the product so produced or obtained is classified in a heading, 
at the six digit level, of the Harmonised System different from 
those  in which all the non-originating materials used in its 
manufacture are classified; or 
 
(b)  
the product satisfies the Product Specific Rules as specified in 
Annex 3A.” 
 
 
Article 5 
 
 
Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin), Section B (Origin Determination), of the 
Agreement shall be amended by adding, after Article 3.4 (Not Wholly Obtained 
or Produced), the following: 
 
“ARTICLE: 3.4A: DE MINIMIS 
 
1. 
A good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to 
Article 3.4 and Annex 3A in the final process of production shall be considered 
as originating if: 
 
(a) 
for all goods except those falling within Chapters 50 through 63 of 
the Harmonised System:  
 
i. 
the value of all non-originating materials used in its 
production, which do not undergo the required change in tariff 
classification, does not exceed ten percent of the FOB value 
of the good; and 
 
ii. 
the good meets all other applicable criteria set forth in this 
Chapter for qualifying as an originating good; and 
 
(b) 
for goods falling within Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonised 
System:  
 
i. 
the total weight of non-originating basic textile materials used 
in its production, which do not undergo the required change 
in tariff classification, does not exceed seven percent of the 
total weight of all the basic textile material used; and 
 
ii. 
the good meets all other applicable criteria set forth in this 
Chapter for qualifying as an originating good. 
 
2. 
The value of such non-originating materials shall be included in the value 
of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content 
requirement for the good.” 
 
 
Article 6 
 
Article 3.15 (Certificate of Origin) of the Agreement shall be replaced with 
the following: 
 
“ARTICLE 3.15: CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN  
 
Products eligible for preferential concessions shall be supported by a 
Certificate of Origin issued by a government authority designated by the 
government of the exporting Party (referred to herein as “the Issuing Authority”) 
and notified to the other Party in accordance with the Operational Certification 
Procedures, as set out in Annex 3B.” 
 
 
Article 7 
 
Article 3.16 (Co-operation on Verification of Certificate of Origins) of 
the Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 
  
“ARTICLE 3.16: CO-OPERATION ON VERIFICATION OF CERTIFICATES OF ORIGIN  
 
1.  
The Parties shall co-operate with each other to verify the authenticity and 
the correctness of the information given in the certificates of origin.  
 
2.  
For the purpose of implementing the provisions of paragraph 1, the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party shall return the certificate of origin, or 
a copy of the document, to the Issuing Authority of the exporting Party, giving 
the reason for the enquiry. Any document and/or information obtained suggesting 
that the information given on the certificate of origin is incorrect shall be 
forwarded in support of the request for verification.  
 
3.  
The verification shall be carried out by the Issuing Authority of the 
exporting Party.” 
 
 
Article 8 
 
 
Annex 3A, as attached to this Protocol, shall replace Annex 3A in the 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 9 
 
 
Annex 3B, as attached to this Protocol, shall replace Annex 3B in the 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 10 
 
1. 
This Protocol shall enter into force on 14th September 2018. 
 
2. 
Unless the Parties decide otherwise, this Protocol shall remain in force for 
so long as the Agreement remains in force. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised by their 
respective governments, have signed this Protocol.  
 
DONE at New Delhi, India on 24th August 2018 in duplicate. 
  
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF INDIA:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
................................................  
(RAJNEESH) 
Joint Secretary 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry  
 
.................................................  
(FRANCIS CHONG) 
Senior Director 
Ministry of Trade and Industry 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
