ANNEX 3B 
 
OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES 
 
For the purposes of implementing the Rules of Origin in Chapter 3, the following operational 
procedures on the issuance and verification of the Certificate of Origin and other related 
administrative matters, shall be followed: 
 
(i) AUTHORITIES 
 
RULE 1  
 
The Certificate of Origin (Attachment 1) shall be issued by the government authority 
designated by the exporting Party and notified to the other Party.  
 
 
RULE 2 
 
(a)   Each Party shall inform the other Party of the names and addresses of the government 
officials issuing this Certificate of Origin and shall provide specimen signatures and 
official seals used by the government officials.  
 
(b)   Any change in names, addresses, or official seals shall be promptly notified to the other 
Party. 
 
 
RULE 3 
 
For the purpose of verifying the conditions for preferential treatment, the government 
authority designated to issue the Certificate of Origin (hereinafter referred to as Issuing 
Authority) shall have the right to call for any supporting documentary evidence or to carry out 
any check considered appropriate.  
 
 
(ii)   APPLICATIONS  
 
RULE 4 
 
The manufacturer and/or exporter of the products qualified for preferential treatment 
shall apply in writing to the relevant Issuing Authority requesting for the pre-exportation 
verification of the origin of the products. The result of the verification, subject to review 
periodically or whenever appropriate, shall be accepted as the supporting evidence in verifying 
the origin of the said products to be exported thereafter. The pre-exportation verification may 
not apply to products, the origin of which can be easily verified, by their nature. 
 
 RULE 5  
 
At the time of carrying out the formalities for exporting the products under preferential 
treatment, the exporter or his authorized representative shall submit a written application for 
the Certificate of Origin together with appropriate supporting documents proving that the 
products to be exported qualify for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin.  
 
 
(iii)   PRE-EXPORTATION  EXAMINATION  
 
RULE 6  
 
The Issuing Authority shall, to the best of its competence and ability, carry out proper 
examination upon each application for the Certificate of Origin to ensure that:  
 
(a)   The application and the Certificate of Origin are duly completed and signed by the 
authorised signatory;  
 
(b)   The origin of the product is in conformity with the Rules of Origin of this Agreement;  
 
(c)   The other statements of the Certificate of Origin correspond to supporting documentary 
evidence submitted; and  
 
(d)   Description, quantity and weight of goods, marks and number of packages, number and 
kinds of packages, as specified, conform to the consignment to be exported. 
 
(iv)  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN  
 
 
RULE 7 
 
(a)   The validity of the Certificate of Origin shall be 12 months from the date of its issuance. 
 
(b)   The Certificate of Origin must be on ISO A4 size paper in conformity to the specimen 
shown in Attachment 1. It shall be made in English. 
 
(c)   The Certificate of Origin shall comprise one original and three (3) carbon copies of the 
following colours: 
 
Original - light grey 
Duplicate – white 
Triplicate - white 
Quadruplicate - white 
 
(d)   Each Certificate of Origin shall bear a reference number given separately by each place 
or office of issuance.  
(e)   The original copy, together with the triplicate, shall be forwarded by the exporter to the 
importer for submission of the original copy to the Customs Authority at the port or place 
of importation. The duplicate shall be retained by the Issuing Authority in the exporting 
Party. The triplicate shall be retained by the importer and the quadruplicate shall be 
retained by the exporter. 
 
(f)   In all cases, the number and date of the commercial invoice shall be indicated in the box 
reserved for this purpose in the Certificate of Origin. 
 
(g)   The  Certificate  of  Origin  shall  bear  the  signature  and  official  seal  of  the  Issuing 
Authority. The signature and official seal may be applied electronically. 
 
 
RULE 8 
 
To implement the provisions of Articles 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 of Chapter 3, the Certificate 
of Origin issued by the exporting Party shall indicate the applicable Rules of Origin and the 
local value-added content, where applicable, in Box 8 of the Certificate of Origin.  
 
 
RULE 9  
 
Neither erasures nor superimpositions shall be allowed on the Certificate of Origin. Any 
alteration shall be made by striking out the erroneous materials and making any addition 
required. Such alterations shall be approved by an official authorised to sign the Certificate of 
Origin and certified by the Issuing Authority. Unused spaces shall be crossed out to prevent 
any subsequent addition.  
 
 
RULE 10 
 
(a)   The Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the relevant  Issuing Authority of the 
exporting Party at the time of exportation, or within three (3) working days from the date 
of shipment whenever the products to be exported can be considered originating in that 
Party within the meaning of the Rules of Origin in Chapter 3. 
 
(b)   In exceptional cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued at the time of 
exportation or within three (3) working days from the date of shipment due to involuntary 
errors or omissions or other valid causes, the Certificate of Origin may be issued 
retroactively but no longer than one year from the date of shipment, bearing the word 
“ISSUED RETROACTIVELY”.  
 
 
RULE 11  
 In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the exporter may 
apply in writing to the Issuing Authority which issued it for the certified true copy of the 
original and the triplicate to be made on the basis of the export documents in their possession 
bearing the endorsement of the word “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY” (in lieu of the Original 
Certificate) in Box 12 of the Certificate of Origin. This copy shall bear the date of the original 
Certificate of Origin. The certified true copy of a Certificate of Origin shall be issued within 
the validity period of the original Certificate of Origin and on condition that the exporter 
provides to the Issuing Authority the quadruplicate mentioned in Rule 7. 
 
 
(v) PRESENTATION 
 
RULE 12  
 
The Original Certificate of Origin shall be submitted to the Customs Authority at the 
time of lodging the import entry for the products concerned. 
 
 
RULE 13  
 
The following time limit for the presentation of the Certificate of Origin shall be 
observed: 
 
(a)   Certificate of Origin shall be submitted to the Customs Authority of the importing Party 
within its validity period, together with the documents required at the time of customs 
clearance of the goods for the importation in accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the importing Party; 
 
(b)  If a claim for preferential treatment is made without producing the Certificate of Origin, 
the Customs Authority of the importing Party may deny preferential treatment and 
request a guarantee in any of its modalities or may take any action necessary in order to 
preserve fiscal interests, as a pre-condition for the completion of the importation subject 
to and in accordance with the laws and procedures of the importing Party. The guarantee 
shall be refunded to the importer if a Certificate of Origin is subsequently produced by 
the Importer in accordance to the laws and procedures of the importing Party. 
 
(c)   Where the Certificate of Origin is submitted to the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party after the expiration of the validity of the Certificate of Origin, such Certificate is 
still to be accepted when failure to observe the time-limit results from force majeure or 
other valid causes beyond the control of the exporter; and 
 
(d)   In all cases, the relevant government authority in the importing Party may accept such 
Certificate of Origin provided that the products have been imported before the expiration 
of the validity of the Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
RULE 14   
The discovery of minor discrepancies between the statements made in the Certificate 
of Origin and those made in the documents submitted to the Customs Authority of the 
importing Party for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall 
not ipso-facto invalidate the Certificate of Origin, if it does in fact correspond to the said 
products.  
 
 
(vi) RETROACTIVE CHECKS 
 
RULE 15 
 
(a)  The Customs Authority of the importing Party, may initiate a retroactive check relating 
to the authenticity of a certificate, as well as the veracity of the information contained 
therein, in accordance with the procedures established in this Annex, in cases of doubt or 
on random basis. 
 
(b)  In cases where the Customs Authority of the importing Party deems it necessary to seek 
a retroactive check from the Issuing Authority of the exporting Party, it shall specify 
whether the verification is on random basis or the veracity of the information is in doubt. 
In case the determination of origin is in doubt, the Customs Authority shall provide 
detailed grounds for the doubt concerning the veracity of Certificate of Origin. 
 
(c)  The Customs Authority of the importing Party may suspend the provisions on preferential 
treatment while awaiting the result of verification. However, it may release the products 
to the importer subject to any administrative measures deemed necessary, provided that 
they are not held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no suspicion 
of fraud.  
 
 
RULE 16 
 
Any request made pursuant to rule 15 shall be in accordance with the following procedure, 
namely: 
 
(a)  the Customs Authority of the importing Party shall make a request for retroactive check 
by providing a copy of the Certificate(s) of Origin. 
 
(b)  the Customs Authority shall specify whether it requires a verification of the genuineness 
of the Certificate of Origin to rule out any forgery, or seeks to verify the determination 
of Origin. 
 
(c)  In cases where the Customs Authority of the importing Party seeks to verify the 
determination of origin, it shall send a questionnaire to the competent authorities of the 
exporting Party, which shall be passed on to the exporter/producer/manufacturer, for such inquiry or documents, as necessary; 
 
(d)  The  Issuing  Authority  of  the  exporting  Party  shall  provide  the  information  and 
documentation requested, within: 
 
(i)  fifteen (15) days of the date of receipt of the request, if the request pertains to the 
authenticity of issue of the Certificate of Origin, including the seal and signatures 
of the Issuing Authority; 
 
(ii)  ninety (90) days from the date of receipt of such request, if the request is on the 
grounds of suspicion of the accuracy of the determination of origin of the product. 
Such period can be extended through mutual consultation between the Customs 
Authority of the importing Party and Issuing Authority of the exporting Party for 
a period no more than sixty (60) days. 
 
(e)  On receiving the results of the retroactive check pursuant to clause (d), if the Customs 
Authority of the importing Party deems it necessary to request for further information, 
the Customs Authority of the importing Party shall communicate the fact to the Issuing 
Authority of the exporting Party within thirty (30) days. The term for the presentation 
of additional information shall be not more than ninety (90) days, from the date of the 
receipt of the request for the additional information. 
 
 
RULE 17 
 
(a)   The application for Certificates of Origin and all documents related to such application 
shall be retained by the Issuing Authority for not less than two years from the date of 
issuance. 
 
(b)   Information relating to the validity of the Certificate of Origin shall be furnished upon 
request of the importing Party. 
 
(c)   Any information communicated among the government authorities shall be treated as 
confidential and shall be used for the validation of Certificates of Origin purposes only. 
 
 
(vii) SPECIAL CASES 
 
RULE 18 
 
When destination of all or parts of the products exported to specified port is changed, 
before or after their arrival in the importing Party, the following Rules shall be observed:  
 
(a)   If the products have already been submitted to the Customs Authority in the specified 
importing port, the Certificate of Origin shall, by a written application of the importer, 
be endorsed to this effect for all or parts of products by the said authority and the original 
returned to the importer.   
(b)   If a change of destination occurs during transportation to the importing Party as specified 
in the Certificate of Origin, the exporter shall apply in writing, accompanied with the 
issued Certificate of Origin, for the issuance of new Certificate/s of Origin for all or parts 
of products.  
 
 
RULE 19  
 
For the purpose of implementing paragraph (b) of Article 3.14 of Chapter 3, where 
transportation is effected through the territory of one or more non-parties, the following shall 
be produced to the government authorities of the importing Party: 
 
(a)   a through Bill of Lading issued in the exporting Party;  
 
(b)   a Certificate of Origin issued by the Issuing Authority of the exporting Party; 
 
(c)   a copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the product; and 
 
(d)   supporting documents in evidence that the requirements of paragraph (b) of Article 3.14 
of Chapter 3 are being complied with. 
 
 
RULE 20 
 
(a)   Products sent from one Party for exhibition in the other Party and sold during or after the 
exhibition, for importation into the other Party shall benefit from the preferential tariff 
treatment provided in this Agreement, on the condition that the products meet the 
requirements of the Rules of Origin in Chapter 3 and provided it is shown to the 
satisfaction of the relevant government authorities of the importing Party that: 
  
(i)   An exporter has dispatched those products from the territory of the exporting Party 
to the importing Party where the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; 
  
(ii)   The exporter has sold the goods or transferred them to a consignee in the importing 
Party; and 
 
(iii)   The products have been sold during the exhibition or immediately thereafter to the 
importing Party in the condition in which they were sent for the exhibition. 
 
(b)   For the purpose of implementing the above provisions, the Certificate of Origin must be 
produced to the relevant government authorities of the importing Party. The name and 
address  of  the  exhibition  must  be  indicated,  a  certificate  issued  by  the  relevant 
government  authority  of  the  Party  where  the  exhibition  took  place  together  with 
supporting documents prescribed in paragraph (d) of Rule 19 may be required. 
 (c)   Paragraph (a) shall apply to any exhibitions, fairs or similar shows or displays where the 
products remain under customs control during these events.  
 
 
(viii) ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS 
 
RULE 21 
 
(a)   When it is suspected that fraudulent acts in connection with the Certificate of Origin have 
been committed, the Issuing Authorities concerned shall co-operate in the action to be 
taken in the territory of each Party against the persons involved.  
 
(b)   Each Party shall be responsible for providing legal sanctions for fraudulent acts related 
to the Certificate of Origin.  
 
 
RULE 22 
 
In the case of a dispute concerning origin determination, classification of products or 
other matters, the government authorities concerned in the importing and exporting Parties 
shall consult each other with a view to resolving the dispute. 
 ATTACHMENT 1 
Original (Duplicate/Triplicate/Quadruplicate) 
 OVERLEAF NOTES 
 
1.  India and Singapore will accept this form for the purpose of preferential treatment under 
the INDIA-SINGAPORE Comprehensive Economic Co-operation Agreement. 
 
2.  CONDITIONS: The main conditions for admission to the preferential treatment under 
the INDIA-SINGAPORE Comprehensive Economic Co-operation Agreement are that 
goods sent to the Parties: 
 
(i)  must fall within a description of products eligible for concessions in the country 
of destination; 
 
(ii)  must comply with the consignment conditions that the goods must be consigned 
directly from exporting Party to the importing Party but transport that involves 
passing through one or more intermediate countries, is also accepted provided 
that any intermediate transit, transhipment or temporary storage arises only for 
geographic reasons or transportation requirements; and 
 
(iii)  must comply with the origin criteria given the Chapter on Rules of Origin. 
 
3.  ORIGIN CRITERIA: For goods that meet the origin criteria, the exporter must indicate 
in Box 8 of this form the origin criteria on the basis of which he claims that his goods 
qualify for preferential treatment, in the manner shown in the following table: 
 
 
4.  EACH ARTICLE MUST QUALIFY: It should be noted that all the products in a 
consignment must qualify separately in their own right. This is of particular relevance 
when similar articles of different sizes or spare parts are sent. 
 
5.  DESCRIPTION OF PRODUCTS: The description of products must be sufficiently 
detailed to enable the products to be identified by the Customs Officers examining them. 
Name of manufacturer, any trade mark shall also be specified. 
 
6.  The Harmonised System number shall be that of the importing Party.  
7.  The term “Exporter” in Box 11 may include the manufacturer or the producer. 
 
8.  FOR OFFICIAL USE: The Customs Authority of the importing Party must indicate (√) 
in the relevant boxes in column 4 whether or not preferential treatment is accorded. 
 
 