 
 
CHAPTER 13 
 
EDUCATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.1: CO-OPERATION  
 
The Parties, recognising the importance of education on sustainable economic 
growth, human resource, and social development, shall develop and promote mutually 
beneficial co-operation between the Parties, in the field of education. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.2: AREAS AND FORMS OF CO-OPERATION  
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  encourage  close  co-operation  between  their  educational 
institutions. 
 
2.  Both  countries  shall  facilitate  collaborations  between  the  Indian  Institutes  of 
Technology  (IIT)  and/or  Indian  Institute  of  Science  (IISc),  and  the  universities  in 
Singapore,  such  as  proposed  collaboration  between  IIT  Mumbai  and  the  National 
University of Singapore, and IIT Chennai and the Nanyang Technological University of 
Singapore, to offer post-graduate research and education, with industrial linkages to, 
multi-national and local companies based in India and Singapore. 
 
3.  The  degrees  specified  by  the  University  Grants  Commission  of  India  and 
awarded by an approved university or an institute deemed to be a university under the 
University Grants Commission (UGC) or an Institution of National Importance of India 
and similarly, degrees awarded by the universities in Singapore shall be recognised for 
the purposes of qualifying the holder to be considered for admission to the universities of 
both countries.  This does not exempt the holder of a degree from India or Singapore 
from complying with other admission conditions or requirements as may be imposed by 
the educational institutes in India or Singapore respectively. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.3: JOINT COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION 
 
1.  For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint Committee 
on Education (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Education Joint Committee”) 
shall be established. The functions of the Education Joint Committee shall be: 
 
(a)  overseeing and reviewing the co-operation and implementation of this 
Chapter;  
 
(b)  providing advice to the Parties with regard to the implementation of this 
Chapter, which may include identification and recommendation of areas 
of co-operation and encouragement of their implementation; and 
 
(c)  any  other  areas  of  cooperation  in  education  which  may  be  mutually 
agreed upon. 
 
  88  
 
2.  The Education Joint Committee shall comprise:  
 
(a)  senior officials from the Ministry of Human Resource Development of 
India, and the Economic Development Board of Singapore, as co-chairs; 
and 
 
(b)  such other members  as may be  appointed by  the Ministry of Human 
Resource Development of India and the Economic Development Board of 
Singapore. 
 
3.  Each Party may invite representatives of its relevant entities including those from 
the private sector, with the necessary expertise relevant to the issues to be discussed, to 
participate in the Education Joint Committee. 
 
4.  The  Education  Joint  Committee  shall  hold  its  inaugural  meeting  within  12 
months after this Agreement comes into force. Subsequent meetings of the Education 
Joint Committee shall be held alternately in India and Singapore and at such frequency 
as the Parties may agree on.  
  89 