  86    CHAPTER 12  SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY    ARTICLE 12.1: CO-OPERATION IN THE FIELD OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY  1. The Parties, recognising that science and technology, particularly in advanced areas, will contribute to the continued expansion of their respective economies in the medium and long term, shall develop and promote co-operative activities between the Parties (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “Co-operative Activities”), for peaceful purposes in the field of science and technology on the basis of equality and mutual benefit.   2. The Parties shall also encourage, where appropriate, other cooperative activities between parties, one or both of whom are entities in their respective territories other than the Parties (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “Other Co-operative Activities”), which could inter alia, include other governmental agencies, academies of science, research institutes, enterprises, institutions of higher education and scientific societies.  3. The provisions of this Chapter shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of the Agreement on Cooperation in Science & Technology between the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Government of the Republic of India and the Ministry of Trade and Industry of the Government of the Republic of Singapore signed on 4th January 1995 (“the 1995 Agreement”), provided however that in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of the 1995 Agreement, the provisions of this Chapter shall prevail.     ARTICLE 12.2: AREAS AND FORMS OF CO-OPERATIVE ACTIVITIES  1. The areas of the co-operation pursuant to Article 12.1 may include research, design and development in:   (a) marine biotechnology;  (b) agricultural biotechnology;   (c) space research;   (d) advanced materials;   (e)  information technology; and  (f) other areas agreed through mutual consultation.       87  2. The forms of the co-operation under paragraph 1 may include:   (a) exchange of information and data;  (b)  joint seminars, workshops and meetings;  (c) visits and exchange of scientists, technical personnel or other  experts, including through participation in science and technology conferences and seminars;  (d) implementation of joint projects and programmes; and  (e) commercialisation of technologies in both countries or any third country including participation in joint ventures.   ARTICLE 12. 3: PROTECTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND OTHER RIGHTS OF A PROPRIETARY NATURE  1. Scientific and technological information of a non-proprietary nature arising from Co-operative Activities may be made available to the public by the government of either Party.  2. In accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the Parties and with relevant international agreements to which the Parties are, or may become parties, the Parties shall ensure the adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights or other rights of a proprietary nature resulting from the Cooperative Activities undertaken pursuant to this Chapter.   3. The Parties will agree on how the rights to the results of Co-operative Activities are to be distributed on the basis of mutually agreed terms, taking into account the contribution of each Party, both to the previous and resultant intellectual property. The Parties shall consult for this purpose as necessary.   ARTICLE 12.4: COSTS OF CO-OPERATIVE ACTIVITIES  1. Costs of Co-operative Activities shall be borne in such manner as may be mutually agreed.  2.  The implementation of this Chapter shall be subject to the availability of appropriate funds and the applicable laws and regulations of each Party.   ARTICLE 12.5: IMPLEMENTING ARRANGEMENTS  Implementing arrangements setting forth the details and procedures of Co-operative Activities under this Chapter may be made between the government agencies of the Parties who are responsible for various areas of collaboration.  