 
 
82 
 
CHAPTER 10 
 
E-COMMERCE 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.1:  GENERAL 
 
The Parties recognise the economic growth and opportunity provided by 
electronic commerce and the importance of avoiding barriers to its use and development 
and the applicability of WTO rules10-1 to electronic commerce. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.2: DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
carrier medium means any physical object, as listed under the WTO Information 
Technology Agreement (ITA-1) Attachment A, capable of storing a digital product by 
any method and from which a digital product can be perceived, reproduced or 
communicated, directly or indirectly; 
 
digital products means computer programs, text, video, images, sound recordings and 
other products that are digitally encoded, regardless of whether they are fixed on a carrier 
medium or transmitted electronically10-2; 
 
electronic means means employing computer processing; 
 
electronic transmission or transmitted electronically means the transfer of digital 
products using any electromagnetic or photonic means; and 
 
person means either a natural person or a juridical person as defined in Chapter 7. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.3:  ELECTRONIC SUPPLY OF SERVICES 
 
The Parties affirm that the supply of a service using electronic means falls within 
the scope of the obligations contained in the relevant provisions of Chapters 2, 6 and 7, 
subject to any reservations or exceptions applicable to such obligations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
10-1 This applies to WTO rules for which both parties are signatories. 
 
10-2 For greater clarity, digital products do not include digitized representations of financial instruments. 
 
 
 
83 
 
ARTICLE 10.4:  DIGITAL PRODUCTS 
 
1. 
A Party shall not apply customs duties or other duties, fees or charges on or in 
connection with the importation or exportation of digital products by electronic 
transmission10-3. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall determine the customs value of imported carrier media bearing 
digital products according to the cost or value of the carrier medium alone, without 
regard to the cost or value of the digital products stored on the carrier medium. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Each Party shall accord to the digital products of the other Party10-4 
treatment no less favourable than it accords to its own like digital 
products10-5 in respect of all measures10-6 affecting the contracting for, 
commissioning, creation, publication, production, storage, distribution, 
marketing, sale, purchase, delivery or use of such digital products. 
 
(b) 
A Party shall accord treatment no less favourable to digital products 
whose author, performer, producer, developer or distributor is a person of 
the other Party than it accords to like digital products whose author, 
performer, producer, developer or distributor is a person of the first Party.  
 
4 
A Party shall not accord treatment less favourable to some digital products on the 
basis of factors not found in paragraph 3, which have the effect of affording protection to 
its own digital products and/or which act as a disguised restriction to trade in digital 
products of the other Party.  
 
 
ARTICLE 10.5:  EXCEPTIONS 
 
1 
This Chapter is subject to the General and Security exceptions contained in 
Chapters 2, 6 and 7 and any other relevant exceptions or reservations set forth in other 
Chapters of this Agreement. 
 
2 
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to Government Procurement. 
 
3 
This Chapter does not apply to measures affecting broadcasting, as defined by 
each Party under its domestic law, which may include webcasting, cablecasting and 
video-on-demand. 
                                                 
10-3 The obligation in paragraph 1 does not preclude a Party from imposing internal taxes or other internal 
charges provided that these are imposed in a manner consistent with Article III of GATT 1994 and its 
interpretative notes as incorporated into this Agreement by Article 2.2. 
 
10-4 Digital products of the other Party refers to digital products created, published, produced, stored, 
contracted for or commissioned in the territory of the other Party. 
 
10-5 Its own like digital products refers to digital products created, published, produced, stored, contracted 
for or commissioned in its own territory. 
 
10-6 Measure means any measure whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, 
administrative action, requirement or any other form. 
 
 
84 
 
ARTICLE 10.6: TRANSPARENCY 
 
Each Party shall publish or otherwise make available to the public its laws, regulations 
and measures of general application which pertain to electronic commerce. 
 
 
