 
 
42 
 
CHAPTER 6 
 
INVESTMENT  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.1: DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
1. 
investment means every kind of asset and includes:- 
 
(a) 
movable and immovable property and other property rights such as 
mortgage, liens or pledges; 
 
(b) 
shares, stocks, debentures and similar interests in companies; 
 
(c) 
rights to money or to any performance under contract having a financial 
value; 
 
(d) 
intellectual property rights 
 
(e) 
goodwill, technical processes and know-how as conferred by law or under 
contract; 
 
(f) 
business concessions conferred by law or under contract, including 
concessions to search for, extract or exploit oil and other minerals and 
other natural resources. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of paragraph 1, returns that are invested shall be treated as 
investments and any alteration in the form in which assets are invested or reinvested 
shall not affect their character as investments. 
 
3. 
returns means monetary returns yielded by or derived from an investment 
including any profits, interest, capital gains, dividends, royalties, fees, or payments in 
connection with intellectual property rights.  
 
4. 
investor of a Party means: 
 
(a) 
an enterprise of a Party; or 
 
(b) 
a national of a Party 
 
that has made or is in the process of making or is seeking to make an investment; 
 
5. 
national means any natural person possessing the citizenship of a Party in 
accordance with its laws. 
 
 
 
43 
 
6. 
enterprise means any entity that is incorporated, constituted, set up or otherwise 
duly organized under the law of a Party6-1, whether or not for profit, whether privately or 
otherwise owned, with limited or unlimited liability, including any corporation, 
company, association, partnership, trust, joint venture, co-operatives or sole 
proprietorship. An enterprise shall not include any legal entity, which is established and 
located in the territory of a Party with negligible or nil business operations or with no 
real and continuous business activities carried out in the territory of that Party. 
 
7. 
measure means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, 
rule, procedure, decision, administrative action or any other form, and includes measures 
taken by: 
 
(a) 
central, regional, or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(b) 
non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, 
regional, or local governments or authorities;  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.2:  SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
 
1. 
This Chapter shall apply to investors of a Party, and to their investments in the 
territory of the other Party whether made before or after the entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
2. 
An enterprise duly organized under the law of a Party shall not be treated as an 
investor of the other Party, but any investments in that enterprise by investors of that 
other Party shall be covered under this Chapter. 
3. 
The provisions of this Chapter as specified in Article 7.24 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to the measures affecting the supply of services by a service provider of a Party 
through commercial presence in the territory of the other Party 
4. 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another Chapter, the 
other Chapter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
5. 
This Chapter shall not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party or to any 
conditions attached to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, 
whether or not such subsidies or grants are offered exclusively to domestic investors and 
investments. 
ARTICLE 6.3:  NATIONAL TREATMENT 
 
1. 
Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party, and investments of 
investors of the other Party, in relation to the establishment, acquisition or expansion of 
                                                 
6-1  The provisions of this Chapter, except for the provisions in paragraph 1 of Article 6.3 
would be extended to branches of enterprises incorporated under the laws of a non-party, 
that are registered or set up in the territory of either Party, that are specifically permitted 
in other Chapters of the Agreement.  
 
 
44 
 
investments in the sectors listed at Annex 6A and Annex 6B, treatment no less than that 
it accords in like circumstances to its own investors and investments. Any subsequent 
establishment, acquisition or expansion of investments by an enterprise that is 
incorporated, constituted, set up or otherwise duly organized under the law of a Party, 
and which is owned by an investor of the other Party, shall be regarded as an investment 
of the other Party, for the purpose of determining the applicable treatment to be accorded 
under this paragraph6-2.   
 
2. 
Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party, and investments of 
investors of the other Party, in relation to the management, conduct, operation, 
liquidation, sale and transfer (or other disposition) of investments, treatment no less 
favourable than it accords in like circumstances to its own investors and investments.  
 
3. 
The treatment to be accorded by a Party under paragraphs 1 and 2 means, with 
respect to a regional or local level, treatment no less favourable than the most favourable 
treatment accorded by that regional and local level, in like circumstances, to investors 
and investments of the Party of which it forms a part.  
 
4. 
The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 above shall not be construed so as to oblige 
one Party to extend to the investors of the other Party the benefit of any treatment, 
preference or privilege resulting from any arrangement or international agreement 
relating wholly or mainly to taxation or any domestic legislation relating wholly or 
mainly to taxation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.4: COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES 
 
Investors of one Party whose investments in the territory of the other Party suffer 
losses owing to war or other armed conflict, a state of emergency or civil disturbances in 
the territory of the latter Party, shall be accorded by that Party treatment, as regards 
restitution, indemnification, compensation or other settlement, if any, no less favourable 
than that which that Party accords to its own investors or to investors of any non-Party.  
Any payments under this Article shall be freely transferable. 
 
ARTICLE 6.5: EXPROPRIATION 
 
1. 
Neither Party shall take any measure of expropriation6-3 against the investments 
of investors of the other Party unless the measures are taken on a non-discriminatory 
basis, for a purpose authorized by law, in accordance with due process of law and against 
payment of compensation in accordance with this Article.  
 
                                                 
6-2 The Parties understand that such enterprises shall be entitled to be accorded any better treatment which 
is available under the regime of that Party, at the time of such subsequent establishment, acquisition and 
expansion of investments.  Any such better treatment accorded shall not be construed as an automatic 
addition to the commitments scheduled in the Parties' respective Schedules of Specific Commitments in 
Annex 6A and Annex 6B.   
   
6-3 The term “expropriation” includes “nationalisation”. 
 
 
45 
 
2. 
The payment of compensation shall be prompt, adequate and effective. 
Compensation shall be equivalent to the fair market value of the expropriated investment 
immediately before the expropriation or impending expropriation became public 
knowledge.  Compensation shall carry an appropriate interest, taking into account the 
length of time from the time of expropriation until the time of payment. Such 
compensation shall be effectively realizable, freely transferable and made promptly. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, any measure of expropriation relating to 
land, which shall be as defined in the existing domestic legislation of the expropriating 
Party on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, shall be for a purpose and upon 
payment of compensation in accordance with the aforesaid legislation and any 
subsequent amendments thereto relating to the amount of compensation where such 
amendments follow the general trends in the market value of the land.  
 
4 
The investor whose investment is expropriated shall have a right of access to the 
courts of justice or the administrative tribunals or agencies of the Party making the 
expropriation to seek review of the expropriation measure or valuation of the 
compensation that has been assessed in accordance with the principles and provisions set 
out in this Article.  
 
5 
When a Party expropriates the assets of an enterprise which is incorporated or 
constituted under the laws in force in any part of its own territory, and in which investors 
of the other Party own shares, it shall ensure that the provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 are 
applied to the extent necessary to guarantee compensation as specified therein to such 
investors of the other Party who are owners of those shares.  
 
6 
This Article does not apply to the issuance of compulsory licenses granted in 
relation to intellectual property rights, or to the revocation, limitation or creation of 
intellectual property rights to the extent that such issuance, revocation, limitation or 
creation is consistent with the WTO Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual 
Property Rights.  
 
7. 
This Article is to be interpreted in accordance with the understanding of the 
Parties on expropriation as set out in their exchange of letters, which shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.6: REPATRIATION 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure to investors of the other Party the free transfer of their 
capital and the returns from any investments. The transfers shall be permitted in a freely 
useable currency at the market rate prevailing in the date of transfer, without undue 
delay.  Such transfers shall include in particular, though not exclusively: 
 
(a) 
profits, capital gains, dividends, royalties, licence fees, interest and other 
current income; 
 
(b) 
the proceeds of the total or partial liquidation of an investment; 
 
 
 
46 
 
(c) 
repayments made pursuant to a loan agreement in connection with an 
investment; 
 
(d) 
payments in respect of technical assistance, technical service and 
management fees; 
 
(e) 
payments in connection with contracting projects; 
 
(f) 
earnings of nationals of the other Party who work in connection with an 
investment in the territory of the former Party; and 
 
(g) 
payments of compensation under Articles 6.4 and 6.5. 
 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a Party may prevent a transfer through the 
equitable, non-discriminatory and good faith application of its laws relating to: 
 
(a) 
bankruptcy, insolvency or the protection of the rights of creditors; 
 
(b) 
issuing, trading or dealing in securities, futures, options, or derivatives; 
 
(c) 
criminal or penal offences, and the recovery of proceeds of crime; 
 
(d) 
ensuring the satisfaction of judgments, orders or awards in adjudicatory 
proceedings such as judicial and quasi-judicial proceedings; or 
 
(e) 
social security, public retirement or statutory savings schemes, including 
provident funds, retirement gratuity programmes and employees 
insurance programmes.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.7: RESTRICTIONS TO SAFEGUARD THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 
 
1. 
In the event of serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or 
threat thereof, a Party may adopt or maintain restrictions on payments or transfers related 
to investments.  It is recognized that particular pressures on the balance of payments of a 
Party in the process of economic development may necessitate the use of restrictions to 
ensure, inter alia, the maintenance of a level of financial reserves adequate for the 
implementation of its programme of economic development.  
 
2. 
The restrictions referred to in paragraph 1 shall: 
 
(a)  
be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of the International 
Monetary Fund; 
 
(b) 
avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic and financial 
interests of the other Party; 
 
(c) 
not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances described in 
paragraph 1; 
 
 
47 
 
 
(d) 
be temporary and be phased out progressively as the situation specified in 
paragraph 1 improves; and 
 
(e) 
be applied on a national treatment basis and such that the other Party is 
treated no less favourably than any non-Party. 
 
3. 
Any restrictions adopted or maintained by a Party under paragraph 1 or any 
changes therein, shall be promptly notified to the other Party. 
 
4. 
The Party adopting any restrictions under paragraph 1 shall commence 
consultations with the other Party in order to review the restrictions adopted by it. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.8: SUBROGATION 
 
1. 
In the event that either Party (or any agency, institution, statutory body or 
corporation designated by it) as a result of an indemnity it has given in respect of an 
investment or any part thereof makes payment to its own investors in respect of any of 
their claims under this Agreement, the other Party acknowledges that the former Party 
(or any agency, institution, statutory body or corporation designated by it) is entitled by 
virtue of subrogation to exercise the rights and assert the claims of its own investors.  
The subrogated rights or claims shall not be greater than the original rights or claims of 
the said investor. 
2. 
Any payment made by one Party (or any agency, institution, statutory body or 
corporation designated by it) to its own investors shall not affect the rights of such 
investors to make their claims against the other Party in accordance with Article 6.21. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.9: DENIAL OF BENEFITS 
 
1. 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor that is an enterprise 
of the other Party where the denying Party establishes that: 
 
(a) 
the enterprise has no substantial business operations in the territory of the 
other Party; or 
 
(b) 
investors of the denying Party own or control the enterprise. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.10: MEASURES IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent: 
 
(a) 
a Party or its regulatory bodies from adopting, maintaining or enforcing 
any measure, on a non-discriminatory basis; or  
 
(b) 
the judicial bodies of a Party from taking any measures;  
 
 
 
48 
 
consistent with this Chapter that is in the public interest, including measures to meet 
health, safety or environmental concerns. 
 
  
ARTICLE 6.11: GENERAL EXCEPTIONS 
 
1 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which 
would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination against the other 
Party or its investors where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
investments of investors of a Party in the territory of the other Party, nothing in this 
Chapter shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by a Party of 
measures: 
 
(a) 
necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order; 
 
(b) 
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
 
(c) 
necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter including those relating 
to: 
 
 
(i) 
the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices to deal with 
the effects of a default on a contract; 
 
 
(ii) 
the protection of the privacy of individuals in relation to the 
processing and dissemination of personal data and the protection 
of confidentiality of individual records and accounts; 
 
(iii) 
safety; 
 
(d) 
imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or 
archaeological value; 
 
(e) 
relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if such 
measures are made effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic 
production or consumption. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.12: SECURITY EXCEPTIONS 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed: 
 
(a)  
to require a Party to furnish any information, the disclosure of which it 
considers contrary to its essential  security interests; or  
 
(b) 
to prevent a Party from taking any action which it considers necessary for 
the protection of its essential security interests  
 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the materials 
from which they are derived; 
 
 
49 
 
 
 
(ii) 
in time of war or other emergency in international relations; 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 
relating to the production or supply of arms and ammunition; or 
   
(iv) 
to protect critical public infrastructures, including communication, 
power and water infrastructures, from deliberate attempts intended 
to disable or degrade such infrastructures;  or 
 
(c)  
to prevent a Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations 
under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party to accord the 
benefits of this Chapter to an investor that is an enterprise of the other Party where a 
Party adopts or maintains measures in any legislation or regulations which it considers 
necessary for the protection of its essential security interests with respect to a non-Party 
or an investor of a non-Party that would be violated or circumvented if the benefits of 
this Chapter were accorded to such an enterprise or to its investments.  
 
3. 
Paragraph 2 shall be interpreted in accordance with the understanding of the 
Parties on security exceptions as set out in their exchange of letters, which shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
This Article shall be interpreted in accordance with the understanding of the 
Parties on non-justiciability of security exceptions as set out in their exchange of letters, 
which shall form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.13: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall require any Party to provide confidential 
information, the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement or otherwise be 
contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice legitimate commercial interests 
of public or private enterprises. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.14: SPECIAL FORMALITIES AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS 
 
1. 
Nothing in Article 6.3 shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting or 
maintaining a measure that prescribes special formalities in connection with the 
establishment of investments by investors of another Party, such as a requirement that 
investors be residents of the Party or that investments be legally constituted under the 
laws and regulations of the Party, provided that such formalities do not impair the 
substance of the benefits of any of the provisions in this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding Article 6.3, a Party may require, from an investor of another 
Party or its investment, routine business information, to be used solely for informational 
or statistical purposes, concerning that investment in its territory.  The Party shall protect 
such business information as is confidential from disclosure that would prejudice the 
investor's or the investment's competitive position.  Nothing in this paragraph shall 
 
 
50 
 
preclude a Party from otherwise obtaining or disclosing information in connection with 
the equitable and good faith application of its laws. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.15: TRANSPARENCY 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations and administrative rulings of 
general application respecting any matter covered by this Agreement are promptly 
published or otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable interested persons 
or Parties to become acquainted with them. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall, upon request by the other Party, promptly respond to specific 
questions from and provide information to the other Party with respect to matters 
referred to in paragraph 1.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.16: SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS 
 
1. 
With respect to paragraph 1 Article 6.3: 
 
(a) 
In the case of India –  The Schedule of Specific Commitments that India 
undertakes under paragraph 1 of Article 3 are set out in Annex 6A, which 
specifies the terms, limitations, conditions and qualifications on national 
treatment in relation to paragraph 1 of Article 6.3. 
 
(b) 
In the case of Singapore – paragraph 1 of Article 6.3 shall not apply to 
any exception that is specified by Singapore or any measure that 
Singapore maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors or activities as set 
out in its Schedule of Reservations at Annex 6B. 
 
2. 
Article 6.19 and Article 6.23 shall not apply to: 
 
(a) 
any exception that is specified by the Parties; or 
 
(b) 
any measure that the Parties maintain with respect to sectors, sub-sectors 
or activities as set out  
 
  
 
in their respective Schedules at Annexes 6A and 6B. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.17:  REVIEW OF COMMITMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS 
 
1. 
If, after this Agreement enters into force, a Party enters into any agreement on 
investment with a non-Party, it shall give consideration to a request by the other Party for 
the incorporation herein of treatment no less favourable than that provided under the 
aforesaid agreement.  Any such incorporation should maintain the overall balance of 
commitments undertaken by each Party under this Agreement. 
 
2. 
As part of the reviews of this Agreement pursuant to Article 16.3: 
 
 
 
51 
 
(a) 
India undertakes to review its Schedule of Specific Commitment as set 
out in Annex 6A with a view to increasing its list of committed sectors 
and reducing the terms, limitations, conditions and qualifications on 
national treatment with regard to the establishment, acquisition or 
expansion of investments; and  
 
(b) 
Singapore undertakes to review the status of the exceptions set out in its 
Schedule in Annex 6B with a view to reducing the exceptions or 
removing them.  
 
3. 
In any other case, a Party may, upon reasonable notice, request the other Party for 
a review of its commitments/exceptions: 
 
(a) 
In the case of India as set out in Annex 6A - its list of committed sectors 
and reducing the terms, limitations, conditions and qualifications on 
national treatment with regard to the establishment, acquisition or 
expansion of investments; or 
 
(b) 
In the case of Singapore as set out in Annex 6B – its exceptions with a 
view to reducing or removing them. 
 
 Any review pursuant to such a request should maintain the overall balance of 
commitments undertaken by each Party under this Agreement.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.18: ACCESS TO COURTS OF JUSTICE 
 
 
Each Party shall within its territory accord to investors of the other Party 
treatment no less favourable than the treatment, which it accords in like circumstances to 
its own investors, with respect to access to its courts of justice and administrative 
tribunals and agencies in all degrees of jurisdiction both in pursuit and in defence of such 
investors’ rights.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.19: SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 
1. 
Neither Party may require that an investor of the other Party appoint to senior 
management positions individuals of any particular nationality. 
  
2.  
A Party may require that a majority of the board of directors, or any committee 
thereof, of an enterprise of the Party that is an investment of an investor of the other 
Party, be of a particular nationality, or resident in the territory of the Party, provided that 
the requirement does not materially impair the ability of the investor to exercise control 
over its investment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 
 
ARTICLE 6.20: REQUEST FOR EXEMPTION ON IMPORT DUTIES 
 
1. 
India shall consider on a case-by-case basis requests from Singapore investors for 
exemptions from custom duties for import of capital goods, excluding consumables, for 
the purposes of infrastructure projects in India.   
 
2. 
For the purpose of paragraph 1 above, infrastructure projects include but are not 
limited to the following: 
 
(a) 
roads and highways; 
 
(b) 
ports and other seaport related infrastructure, such as logistics; 
 
(c) 
airports and other aviation related infrastructure;  
 
(d) 
power (generation, transmission, distribution);  
 
(e) 
water resource management; 
 
(f) 
waste management; 
 
(g) 
other urban infrastructure, such as pollution control and management; 
 
(h) 
housing, including townships; and 
 
(i) 
telecommunications. 
 
3. 
Such requests shall be made in such form and include such details as may be 
prescribed.  These forms and details would be notified to the contact point provided 
under Article 16.2.   
 
4. 
Decision on such requests shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 6.18, 
Article 6.21, or Chapter 15.    
 
 
ARTICLE 6.21: INVESTMENT DISPUTES 
 
1. 
 This Article shall apply to disputes between a Party and an investor of the other 
Party concerning an alleged breach of an obligation of the former under this Chapter 
which causes loss or damage to the investor or its investment, except any dispute arising 
under Article 6.3.16-4.  
  
2. 
The parties to the dispute shall, as far as possible, resolve the dispute through 
consultations and negotiations.   
  
                                                 
6-4 This Article is subject to the understanding of the Parties on Compulsory Investor-To State Dispute 
Settlement in relation to Pre-Establishment as set out in their exchange of letters, which shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
53 
 
3. 
Where the dispute cannot be resolved as provided for under paragraph 2 within 6 
months from the date of a request for consultations and negotiations, then unless the 
disputing investor and the disputing Party agree otherwise or the investor concerned has 
already submitted the dispute to the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing 
Party (excluding proceedings for interim measures of protection referred to in paragraph 
5), the investor may submit the dispute to:  
  
(a) 
the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party;  
  
(b) 
the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) for 
conciliation or arbitration pursuant to Articles 28 or 36 of the Convention on  the 
Settlement  of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States, 
done at Washington on 18 March 1965 (“ICSID Convention”) if the ICSID 
Convention is in force between the Parties; or if the ICSID Convention is not in 
force between the Parties,  to the ICSID for conciliation or arbitration pursuant to 
the Additional Facility Rules of ICSID; or 
  
(c) 
arbitration under the rules of the United Nations Commission on International 
Trade Law (UNCITRAL).  
   
4. 
Each Party hereby consents to the submission of a dispute to conciliation or 
arbitration under paragraph 3(b) and paragraph 3(c) above in accordance with the 
provisions of this Article, conditional upon:  
  
(a)   
the submission of the dispute to such conciliation or arbitration taking place 
within three  years of the time at which the disputing  investor became aware, or 
should reasonably have become aware, of a breach of an obligation under this 
Chapter causing  loss or damage to  the  investor  or its  investment; and  
  
(b) 
the disputing  investor providing  written notice, which shall  be submitted at 
least 30 days before the claim is submitted, to the disputing Party of his or her 
intent to submit the dispute to such conciliation or arbitration and which:  
  
(i) 
nominates either paragraph 3(b) or paragraph 3(c) as the forum for dispute 
settlement (and, in the case of paragraph 3(b), nominates whether 
conciliation or arbitration is being sought);  
  
(ii)   waives  its right to initiate or continue any proceedings (excluding  
proceedings for interim measures of  protection referred  to in  paragraph 
5) before any of the  other dispute settlement  fora  referred  to  in  
paragraph 3  in  relation  to  the matter under dispute; and  
       
(iii) 
briefly summarises the alleged  breach of the disputing Party under this 
Chapter (including the articles alleged to have been breached) and the loss 
or damage allegedly  caused to  the investor or its investment.  
   
5.   
Neither Party shall prevent the disputing investor from seeking interim measures 
of protection, not involving the payment of damages or resolution of the substance of the 
matter in dispute before the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party, 
 
 
54 
 
prior to the institution of proceedings before any of the dispute settlement fora referred to 
in paragraph 3, for the preservation of its rights and interests.  
  
6. 
Neither Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an international claim, in 
respect of a dispute which one of its investors and the other Party shall have consented to 
submit or have submitted to conciliation or arbitration under this Article, unless such 
other Party has failed to abide by and comply with the award rendered in such dispute.  
Diplomatic protection, for the purposes of this paragraph, shall not include informal 
diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a settlement of the dispute.  
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.22: OTHER OBLIGATIONS 
 
If the legislation of either Party or international obligations existing at present or 
established hereafter between the Parties in addition to this Agreement, result in a 
position entitling investors of the other Party and investments by investors of the other 
Party to treatment more favourable than is provided for by this Agreement, such position 
shall not be affected by this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.23: PROHIBITION OF PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENT 
 
The Parties reaffirm their commitments to WTO Agreement on Trade-Related 
Investment Measures (“TRIMs”) and hereby incorporate the provisions of TRIMs, as 
may be amended from time to time, as part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.24: ENTRY INTO FORCE, DURATION AND TERMINATION 
 
 
In the event that this Agreement is terminated, the provisions of this Chapter, the 
provisions in Chapter 15, and other provisions in the Agreement necessary for or 
consequential to the application of this Chapter, except paragraph 1 of Article 6.3 and 
Article 6.16, shall continue in effect with respect to investments made or acquired before 
the date of termination of this Agreement for a further period of fifteen years after the 
date of termination and without prejudice to the application thereafter of the rules of 
general international law. 
 
 
