 
531 
 
ANNEX 7 C 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
 
1. 
Scope and Definition 
 
(a) 
This Annex applies to measures affecting the supply of financial services.  
Reference to the supply of a financial service in this Annex shall mean the 
supply of a service as defined in paragraph (r) of Article 7.1.    
 
(b) 
For the purposes of paragraph (m) of Article 7.1, "services supplied in the 
exercise of governmental authority" means the following: 
 
(i) 
activities conducted by a central bank or monetary 
authority or by any other public entity in pursuit of 
monetary or exchange rate policies; or 
 
(ii) 
activities forming part of a statutory system of social 
security or public retirement plans; or 
 
(iii) 
activities conducted by a public entity for the account or 
with the guarantee or using the financial resources of the 
Government. 
 
(c) 
For the purposes of paragraph (m) of Article 7.1, if a Party allows any of 
the activities referred to in subparagraphs (b)(ii) or (b)(iii) of this 
paragraph to be conducted by its financial service suppliers in competition 
with a public entity or a financial service supplier, "services" shall include 
such activities. 
 
(d) 
Paragraph (a) of Article 7.1 shall not apply to services covered by this 
Annex. 
 
(e) 
References to "service supplier of the other Party" and "service supplier" 
in Chapter 7, shall mean "financial service supplier of the other Party" and 
"financial services supplier" respectively, as defined in paragraph 10 of 
this Annex. 
 
 
2. 
Domestic Regulation 
 
(a) 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a Party shall not 
be prevented from adopting or maintaining measures for prudential 
reasons, including for the protection of investors, depositors, policy 
 
532 
holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service 
supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial system.  
Where such measures do not conform with the provisions of Chapter 7, 
they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party's commitments or 
obligations under Chapter 7.   
 
(b) 
Nothing in Chapter 7 shall be construed to require a Party to disclose 
information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or 
any confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public 
entities. 
 
 
3. 
Recognition  
 
(a) 
A Party may recognise prudential measures of any international standard 
setting body or non-Party in determining how the Party's measures relating 
to financial services shall be applied.  Such recognition, which may be 
achieved through harmonization or otherwise, may be based upon an 
agreement or arrangement with the international standard setting body or 
non-Party concerned or may be accorded autonomously. 
 
(b) 
A Party that is a party to such an agreement or arrangement referred to in 
subparagraph 3(a), whether future or existing, shall afford adequate 
opportunity for the other Party to negotiate its accession to such 
agreements or arrangements, or to negotiate comparable ones with it, 
under circumstances in which there would be equivalent regulation, 
oversight, implementation of such regulation, and, if appropriate, 
procedures concerning the sharing of information between the parties to 
the agreement or arrangement.   
 
(c) 
Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate 
opportunity for the other Party to demonstrate that such circumstances as 
referred to in subparagraph (b) exist. 
 
 
4. 
New Financial Services  
 
(a) 
For the purposes of paragraph 4 of Article 7.2, a “new financial service” is 
a financial service that is not supplied by any financial service supplier in 
the territory of the first Party but which is supplied within the territory of 
the other Party and includes existing and new financial products or the 
manner in which a financial product or service is delivered.  Commitments 
on such new financial services will be based on the principles outlined in 
Articles 7.3 to 7.6. 
 
 
533 
(b) 
Each Party shall permit a financial service supplier of the other Party who 
is authorised to do business and regulated or supervised by a public entity 
under the law of the Party in whose territory it operates to supply any new 
financial service that the first Party would permit its own financial 
institutions, in like circumstances, to supply.  Notwithstanding paragraph 4 
of Article 7.2 and subparagraph 2(e) of Article 7.3, a Party may determine 
the institutional and juridical form through which the new financial service 
may be supplied and may require authorisation for the supply of the 
service.  Where a Party requires such authorisation of the new financial 
service, a decision shall be made within a reasonable time and the 
authorization may only be refused for prudential reasons.   
 
 
5. 
Transparency  
 
(a) 
In lieu of Article 7.18, each Party shall, to the extent practicable 
 
(i) Make available in advance any regulations of general application 
relating to the supply of financial services that it proposes to adopt; 
and 
 
(ii) Provide interested persons and the other Party a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on such proposed regulations.  
 
(b) 
Each Party’s regulatory authorities shall make available to interested 
persons their requirements, including any documentation required, for 
completing applications relating to the supply of financial services. 
 
(c) 
On the request of an applicant, the regulatory authority shall inform the 
applicant of the status of the application.  If such authority requires 
additional information from the applicant, it shall notify the applicant 
without due delay. 
 
(d) 
A regulatory authority shall make an administrative decision on a 
completed application of an applicant relating to the supply of a financial 
service within 120 days, and shall promptly notify the applicant of the 
decision.  An application shall not be considered complete until all 
relevant hearings are held and all necessary information is received.  
Where it is not practicable for a decision to be made within 120 days, the 
regulatory authority shall notify the applicant without undue delay and 
shall endeavour to make the decision within a reasonable time thereafter. 
 
(e) 
Each Party shall maintain or establish appropriate mechanisms that will 
respond to inquiries from interested persons regarding measures of general 
application, covered by this Annex. 
 
 
534 
(f) 
Each Party shall ensure that the rules of general application adopted or 
maintained by self-regulatory organisations of the Party are promptly 
published or otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable 
interested persons to become acquainted with them. 
 
(g) 
To the extent practicable, each Party should allow reasonable time 
between the publication of final regulations and their effective date. 
 
(h) 
At the time it adopts final regulations, a Party shall endeavour, to the 
extent practicable, address in writing substantive comments received from 
interested persons with respect to the proposed regulations. 
 
 
6. 
Transfer of Information  
 
No Party shall take measures that prevent transfers of information or the 
processing of financial information, including transfers of data by electronic 
means, or that, subject to importation rules consistent with international 
agreements, prevent transfers of equipment, where such transfers of information, 
processing of financial information or transfers of equipment are necessary for the 
conduct of the ordinary business of a financial service supplier.  Nothing in this 
paragraph restricts the right of a Party to protect personal data, personal privacy 
and the confidentiality of individual records and accounts so long as such right is 
not used to circumvent the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
 
7. 
Modification of Schedules  
 
(a) 
A Party (referred to in this Article as the "modifying Party") may modify 
or withdraw any commitment in its Schedule, at any time after three years 
have elapsed from the date on which that commitment entered into force, 
in accordance with the provisions of this Article. 
 
(b) 
A modifying Party shall notify its intent to modify or withdraw a 
commitment pursuant to this Article to the other Party no later than three 
months before the intended date of implementation of the modification or 
withdrawal. 
 
(c) 
At the request of the other Party, the benefits of which under this 
Agreement may be affected (referred to in this Article as an "affected 
Party") by a proposed modification or withdrawal notified under 
subparagraph (b), the modifying Party shall enter into negotiations with a 
view to reaching agreement on any necessary compensatory adjustment.  
In such negotiations and agreement, both Parties shall endeavour to 
maintain a general level of mutually advantageous commitments not less 
 
535 
favourable to trade than that provided for in Schedules of specific 
commitments prior to such negotiations. 
 
(d) 
The Parties shall endeavour to conclude negotiations on such compensatory 
adjustment to mutual satisfaction within six months, failing which recourse 
may be had to the provisions of Chapter 15 of this Agreement.  
 
(e) 
If the affected Party does not refer the matter to dispute settlement within 
one month from the expiration of the period referred to in sub-paragraph 
(d), the modifying Party shall be free to implement the proposed 
modification or withdrawal. 
 
(f) 
The modifying Party may not modify or withdraw its commitment until it 
has made compensatory adjustments in conformity with the findings of the 
dispute settlement panel. 
 
(g) 
If the modifying Party implements its proposed modification or 
withdrawal and does not comply with the findings of the dispute 
settlement panel, the affected Party may modify or withdraw substantially 
equivalent benefits in conformity with those findings.   
 
 
8. 
Dispute Settlement 
 
 
Arbitral tribunals agreed between or appointed by the Parties under Chapter 15 for 
disputes on prudential issues and other financial matters shall have the necessary 
expertise relevant to the specific financial service under dispute. 
 
 
 
9. 
Definitions 
 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a) 
A financial service is any service of a financial nature offered by a 
financial service supplier of a Party.  Financial services include all 
insurance and insurance-related services, and all banking and other 
financial services (excluding insurance).  Financial services include the 
following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(i) 
Direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(A) 
life 
(B) 
non-life 
 
 
536 
(ii) 
Reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(iii) 
Insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; 
 
(iv) 
Services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, 
risk assessment and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
(v) 
Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the 
public; 
 
(vi) 
Lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, 
factoring and financing of commercial transaction; 
 
(vii) 
Financial leasing; 
 
(viii) 
All payment and money transmission services, including credit, 
charge and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts; 
 
(ix) 
Guarantees and commitments; 
 
(x) 
Trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on 
an exchange, in an over-the-counter market or otherwise, the 
following: 
 
(A) money market instruments (including cheques, bills, 
certificates of deposits); 
(B) foreign exchange; 
(C) derivative products including, but not limited to, futures 
and options; 
(D) exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including 
products such as swaps, forward rate agreements; 
(E) transferable securities; 
(F) other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including 
bullion. 
 
(xi) 
Participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including 
underwriting and placement as agent (whether publicly or 
privately) and provision of services related to such issues; 
 
(xii) 
Money broking; 
 
(xiii) 
Asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all 
forms of collective investment management, pension fund 
management, custodial, depository and trust services; 
 
537 
 
(xiv) 
Settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including 
securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
(xv) 
Provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data 
processing and related software by suppliers of other financial 
services; 
 
(xvi) 
Advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on 
all the activities listed in subparagraphs (v) through (xv), 
including credit reference and analysis, investment and portfolio 
research and advice, advice on acquisitions and on corporate 
restructuring and strategy. 
 
(b) 
A financial service supplier means any natural or juridical person of a 
Party wishing to supply or supplying financial services but the term 
“financial service supplier” does not include a public entity. 
 
(c) 
"Public entity" means: 
 
(i) 
a government, a central bank or a monetary authority, of a Party, or 
an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally 
engaged in carrying out governmental functions or activities for 
governmental purposes, not including an entity principally engaged 
in supplying financial services on commercial terms;  or 
 
(ii)  
a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a 
central bank or monetary authority, when exercising those 
functions.  
 
(d) 
“Self-regulatory organization” means any non-governmental body, 
including any securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, 
other organization or association, that exercises regulatory or supervisory 
authority over financial service suppliers or financial institutions, by 
statute or delegation from central, regional or local governments or 
authorities. 
 
 
