 
 
 
CHAPTER 5 
 
STANDARDS AND TECHNICAL REGULATIONS, SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY 
MEASURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.1:  SCOPE 
 
1.  Consistent with the objectives set out in Chapter 1 and the provisions of this 
Chapter, and reflecting the level of confidence that each Party has in the other Party’s 
regulatory outcomes and conformity assessment systems, each Party shall implement the 
principles  of  mutual  recognition  that  provide  the  most  appropriate  or  cost-efficient 
approach to the removal or reduction of technical, sanitary and phytosanitary barriers 
(hereinafter referred to as “regulatory barriers”) to the trade in goods between the Parties 
for products and/or assessments of manufacturers/manufacturing processes of products 
specified in the Sectoral Annexes to this Chapter. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter, mutual recognition means that each Party, on 
the basis that it is accorded reciprocal treatment by the other Party: 
 
(a)  accepts the test reports of conformity assessment activities of the other 
Party  to  demonstrate  conformity  of  products  and/or 
manufacturers/manufacturing processes with its mandatory requirements 
when the conformity assessment activities are undertaken by conformity 
assessment bodies designated by the other Party in accordance with this 
Chapter i.e. mutual recognition of test reports; 
 
(b)  accepts the certification of results of conformity assessment activities of 
the  other  Party  to  demonstrate  conformity  of  products  and/or 
manufacturers/manufacturing processes with its mandatory requirements 
when the conformity assessment activities are undertaken by conformity 
assessment bodies designated by the other Party in accordance with this 
Chapter i.e. mutual recognition of certification of conformity assessment; 
 
(c)  accepts the mandatory requirements of a Party as producing outcomes 
equivalent  to  those  produced  by  the  other  Party’s  corresponding  but 
different  mandatory  requirements,  with  both  meeting  the  legitimate 
objective or achieving the appropriate level of sanitary or phytosanitary 
protection of the mandatory requirements applied in the territory of the 
latter  Party;  i.e.  mutual  recognition  of  equivalence  of  mandatory 
requirements.  
 
 
ARTICLE 5.2: DEFINITIONS 
 
1.  All general terms concerning standards and conformity assessment used in this 
Chapter shall have the meaning given in the definitions contained in the International 
Organisation for Standardisation/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 
  28  
 
Guide 2: 2004 "Standardization and related activities – General vocabulary” published 
by the ISO and IEC, unless the context otherwise requires and as appropriate. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter, and its Sectoral Annexes, unless a more specific 
meaning is given in the specified Sectoral Annexes: 
 
accept means the use of the results of conformity assessment activities as a basis for 
regulatory actions such as approvals, licences, registrations and post-market assessments 
of conformity assessment; 
 
acceptance has an equivalent meaning to accept; 
 
certification body means a body, including product or quality systems certification 
bodies, that may be designated by a Party in accordance with this Chapter to conduct 
certification  on  compliance  with  its  or  the  other  Party’s  standardisation  and/or 
specifications to meet relevant mandatory requirements; 
 
confirmation means the confirmation of the compliance of the manufacturing or test 
facility with the criteria for confirmation by a Competent Authority of a Party pursuant 
to the mandatory requirements of the other Party; 
 
competent authority means an authority of a Party with the power to conduct inspection 
or audits on facilities in its territory to confirm their compliance with the mandatory 
requirements of the other Party; 
 
conformity assessment means any activity concerned with determining  directly or 
indirectly whether products, manufacturers or processes fulfil relevant  standards and/or 
specifications to meet relevant mandatory requirements set out in the respective Party’s 
mandatory requirements.  The typical examples of conformity assessment activities are 
sampling,  testing,  inspection,  evaluation,  verification,  certification,  registration, 
accreditation and approval, as well as their combinations;  
 
conformity  assessment  body    means  a  body  that  conducts  conformity  assessment 
activities; 
 
designation means the authorisation by a Party’s designating authority of its conformity 
assessment body to undertake specified conformity assessment activities pursuant to the 
mandatory requirements of the other Party;  
 
designate has an equivalent meaning to designation; 
 
Designating Authority means a body established in the territory of a Party with the 
authority  to  designate,  monitor,  suspend  or  withdraw  designation  of  conformity 
assessment bodies to conduct conformity assessment activities within its jurisdiction in 
accordance with the other Party’s mandatory requirements; 
 
inspection means conformity evaluation by observation and judgement accompanied  as 
appropriate  by  measurement,  testing  or  gauging,  unless  otherwise  specified  in  the 
Sectoral Annex; 
 
  29  
 
inspection body means a body that performs inspection; 
 
mandatory  requirements  means  a  Party’s  applicable  laws,  regulations  and 
administrative provisions; 
 
registered conformity assessment body means a body registered pursuant to Article 
5.5; 
 
registration means the authorisation by a Party’s Designating Authority of a conformity 
assessment  body  of  the  other  Party  to  undertake  specified  conformity  assessment 
activities pursuant to its mandatory requirements; 
 
regulatory  authority  means  an  entity  that  exercises  a  legal  right  to  determine  the 
mandatory requirements, control the import, use or supply of products within a Party’s 
territory and may take enforcement action to ensure that products marketed within its 
territory  comply  with  that  Party’s  mandatory  requirements  including  assessments  of 
manufacturers/ manufacturing processes of products; 
 
sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measure  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  WTO 
Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures; 
 
Sectoral  Annex  is  an  annex  to  this  Chapter  which  specifies  the  implementation 
arrangements in respect of a specific product sector; 
 
stipulated  requirements  means  the  criteria  set  out  in  a  Sectoral  Annex  for  the 
designation of a Conformity Assessment Body;  
 
technical  regulations  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  WTO  Agreement  on 
Technical Barriers to Trade; 
 
test facility means a facility, including independent laboratories, manufacturers’ own test 
facilities  or  government  testing  bodies,  that  may  be  designated  by  one  Party’s 
Designating Authority in accordance with this Chapter to undertake tests to the other 
Party’s mandatory requirements; and 
 
verification means an action to verify in the territories of the Parties, by such means as 
audits or inspections, compliance with the stipulated requirements for designation or 
criteria for confirmation by a conformity assessment body or a manufacturing or test 
facility respectively.   
 
 
ARTICLE 5.3: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to the mandatory requirements adopted or maintained by 
the Parties to fulfil their legitimate objectives and/or achieve their appropriate level of 
sanitary or phytosanitary protection. 
 
2.  Each Party shall accept, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, the test 
reports and/or results of conformity assessment activities stipulated by the mandatory 
requirements of that Party specified in the relevant Sectoral Annex, including certificates 
  30  
 
and marks of conformity, that are conducted by the registered conformity assessment 
bodies of the other Party. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Article, a Sectoral Annex shall include: 
 
(a)  inter alia, provisions on scope and coverage; 
 
(b)  applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions i.e. mandatory 
requirements of each Party concerning the scope and coverage; 
 
(c)  applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of each Party 
stipulating the requirements covered by this Chapter, all the conformity 
assessment activities covered by this Chapter to satisfy such requirements 
and the stipulated requirements for designation of conformity assessment 
bodies or the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of 
each Party stipulating the criteria for confirmation of the manufacturing or 
test facilities covered by this Chapter; and  
 
(d)  the list of Designating Authorities or Competent Authorities. 
 
4.  The Parties shall, where appropriate, endeavour to work towards harmonisation 
of their respective mandatory requirements taking into account relevant international 
standards, recommendations and guidelines, in accordance with their international rights 
and obligations. 
 
 
ARTICLE  5.4: APPLICATION 
 
  This  Chapter  applies  to  all  products  and/or  assessments  of  manufacturers  or 
manufacturing processes of products traded between the Parties, regardless of the origin 
of those products, unless otherwise specified in a Sectoral Annex, or unless otherwise 
specified by any mandatory requirements of a Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE  5.5: MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT 
 
Scope 
 
1.  This Article shall apply to the conformity assessment bodies and conformity 
assessment activities for products as may be specified in the Sectoral Annexes. 
 
Obligations  
 
2.  In accordance with Article 2.4 of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to 
Trade, where technical regulations are required and relevant international standards exist 
or their completion is imminent, Parties shall use them, or the relevant parts of them, as a 
basis  for  their  mandatory  requirements  except  when  such  international  standards  or 
relevant parts of them would be an ineffective  or inappropriate means for the legitimate 
objectives pursued, for instance because of fundamental climatic or geographical factors 
or fundamental technological problems.   
  31  
 
 
3.  A Party shall accept the test reports and/or the results of conformity assessment 
activities to demonstrate conformity of products with its mandatory requirements when 
the conformity assessment activities are undertaken by conformity assessment bodies 
designated by the  Designating Authority of the other Party and registered by the first 
mentioned Party’s Designating Authority in accordance with this Chapter. 
 
Designating Authorities 
 
4.  Each Party shall notify the other of any scheduled changes  concerning their 
Designating Authorities, and ensure that their Designating Authorities:  
 
(a)  have the necessary power to designate, monitor (including verification), 
withdraw the designation of, suspend the designation of and withdraw the 
suspension of the designation of the conformity assessment bodies that 
conduct conformity assessment activities within its territory based upon 
the requirements set out in the other Party’s mandatory requirements as 
specified in the relevant Sectoral Annex; and 
 
(b)  consult, as necessary, with the relevant counterparts of the other Party to 
ensure the maintenance of confidence in conformity assessment activities 
including processes and procedures.  The consultations may include joint 
participation in audits related to conformity assessment activities or other 
assessments  of  registered  conformity  assessment  bodies,  where  such 
participation is appropriate, technically possible and within reasonable 
cost. 
 
Registration of Conformity Assessment Bodies 
 
5.  The  following  procedures  shall  apply  to  the  registration  of  a  conformity 
assessment body: 
 
(a)  each Party shall make a proposal that a conformity assessment body of 
that Party designated by its Designating Authority be registered under this 
Chapter, by presenting its proposal in writing, supported by the necessary 
documents, to the Designating Authority of the other Party; 
 
(b)  the Designating Authority of the other Party shall consider whether the 
proposed conformity assessment body complies with the stipulated and 
mandatory  requirements  specified  in  the  relevant  Sectoral  Annex  and  
communicate, to the Designating Authority of the other Party in writing, 
its  decision regarding the registration of that conformity assessment body 
along with date of registration within 90 days from the date of receipt of 
the proposal referred to in paragraph (a) above; and  
 
(c)  in the event of any disagreement over the registration, either Party may 
refer  the  matter  to    the  Mutual  Recognition  Joint  Committee  for 
resolution.  
 
  32  
 
6.  The proposing Party shall provide the following information in its proposal for 
registration of a conformity assessment body and keep such information up to date: 
 
(a)  the name and address of the conformity assessment body; 
 
(b)  the products or processes the conformity assessment body is designated to 
assess; 
 
(c)  the conformity assessment activities the conformity assessment body is 
designated to conduct; and 
 
(d)  the designation procedure and necessary information used to determine 
the compliance of the conformity assessment body with the stipulated 
requirements. 
 
7.  Each Party shall ensure that its Designating Authority withdraws the designation 
of a conformity assessment body registered by the Designating Authority of the other 
Party when its Designating Authority considers that the conformity assessment body no 
longer complies with the stipulated and mandatory requirements set out in the relevant 
Sectoral Annex. The withdrawal of the designation shall be notified in writing to the 
Designating Authority of the other Party. Each Party shall terminate the registration of a 
conformity  assessment  body  when  the  Designating  Authority  of  the  other  Party 
withdraws the designation of its conformity assessment body. The date of termination of 
registration of the conformity assessment body shall be the date of receipt of notification 
for withdrawal from the other Party. 
 
8.  A  Party  shall  propose  the  termination  of  the  registration  of  a  conformity 
assessment body when that Party considers that the conformity assessment body no 
longer complies with the stipulated and mandatory requirements of that Party specified 
in  the  relevant  Sectoral  Annex.  Proposal  for  terminating  the  registration  of  that 
conformity assessment body shall be made to the Designating Authority of the other 
Party in writing. 
 
9.  In the case of registration of a new conformity assessment body, the other Party 
shall accept the results of conformity assessment activities conducted by that conformity 
assessment body from the date of the registration. In the event that the registration of a 
conformity assessment body is terminated, the other Party shall accept the results of the 
conformity assessment activities conducted by that conformity assessment body prior to 
the termination, without prejudice to paragraphs 16 and 17. 
 
10.  Each Party shall notify the other Party of any scheduled changes concerning its 
designated conformity assessment bodies. 
 
11.  The Parties shall publish, on a sector-by-sector basis, their respective lists of 
registered conformity assessment bodies.   
 
Verification and Monitoring of Conformity Assessment Bodies 
 
12.  Each Party shall ensure that its Designating Authorities shall: 
 
  33  
 
(a)  through  appropriate  means  such  as  audits,  inspections  or  monitoring, 
ensure  that  its  designated  conformity  assessment  bodies  fulfil  the 
stipulated and mandatory  requirements set out  in the Sectoral Annex. 
When  applying  the  stipulated  requirements  for  designation  of  the 
conformity  assessment  bodies,  the  Designating  Authorities  of  a  Party 
should take into account the bodies’ understanding of and experience 
relevant to the mandatory requirements of the other Party; 
 
(b)  monitor  and  verify  that  the  designated  conformity  assessment  bodies, 
maintain  the  necessary  technical  competence  to  demonstrate  the 
conformity of a product with the standards, and/or specifications to meet 
the  mandatory  requirements  of  the  other  Party.  This  shall  include 
participation  in  appropriate  proficiency-testing  programmes  and  other 
comparative  reviews  such  as  non  government-to-government  mutual 
recognition agreements, so that confidence in their technical competence 
to undertake the required conformity assessment is maintained; 
 
(c)  exchange information concerning the procedures used to ensure that the 
designated conformity assessment bodies are technically competent and 
comply with the relevant stipulated requirements; and 
 
(d)  compare methods used to verify that the registered conformity assessment 
bodies comply with the relevant stipulated requirements. 
 
13.  When in doubt, a Party may request the other Party, in writing, to clarify whether 
a registered conformity assessment body complies with the stipulated requirements for  
designation as set out in the mandatory requirements in the Sectoral Annex, and may 
request for a verification to be conducted of the conformity assessment body’s activities 
in accordance with the first mentioned Party’s mandatory requirements. 
 
14.  Either Party may, upon request, participate as an observer, at its own expense, in 
the  verification  of  conformity  assessment  bodies  conducted  by  the  Designating 
Authorities of the other Party, with the prior consent of such conformity assessment 
bodies, in order to maintain a continuing understanding of the other Party’s procedures 
for verification. 
 
15.  Each Party should encourage its conformity assessment bodies to co-operate with 
the conformity assessment bodies of the other Party. 
 
Suspension  and  Withdrawal  of  Suspension  of  Designation  of  Conformity 
Assessment Bodies 
 
16.  In case of suspension of the designation of a registered conformity assessment 
body,  the  Party  whose  Designating  Authority  has  suspended  the  designation  shall 
immediately notify the other Party to that effect. The registration of that conformity 
assessment body shall be suspended from the date of receipt of the notification by the 
Designating Authority of the other Party. The other Party shall accept the results of the 
conformity assessment activities conducted by that conformity assessment body prior to 
the suspension of the designation. 
 
  34  
 
17.  In the case of lifting of suspension of the designation of a registered conformity 
assessment  body,  the  Designating  Authority  which  has  lifted  the  suspension  of  the 
designation shall immediately notify the Designating Authority of the other Party to that 
effect.  The lifting of suspension of the registration of that conformity assessment body 
shall  be  effective  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  notification  by  the  Designating 
Authority of the other Party. The other Party shall accept the results of the conformity 
assessment body from the date of lifting of the suspension of the registration. 
 
Challenge 
 
18.  Each Party shall have the right to challenge a registered conformity assessment 
body’s technical competence and compliance with the relevant stipulated requirements. 
This right shall be exercised only in exceptional circumstances and where supported by 
relevant expert analysis or evidence. A Party shall exercise this right by notifying the 
other Party and the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee in writing. Such notification 
shall be accompanied by the supporting expert analysis or evidence. 
 
19.  Except in urgent  circumstances, the Parties shall, prior to a  challenge under 
paragraph 18, enter into consultations with a view to seeking a mutually satisfactory 
solution. In case the consultations do not produce a satisfactory solution and the Parties 
exercise the right to challenge, the registration of the conformity assessment body shall 
be suspended immediately. The date of suspension shall be the date of receipt of the 
written notification pursuant to paragraph 18. 
 
20.  In urgent circumstances, the Party shall suspend the registration of the conformity 
assessment body as soon as the right of challenge has been exercised.  
 
21.  Pursuant to paragraph 19, the consultations shall take place expeditiously with a 
view to resolving all issues and seeking a mutually satisfactory solution within 20 days 
following the date on which a challenge is received by the other Party or within the 
period so specified in the Sectoral Annex.  
 
22.  If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached, the Mutual Recognition Joint 
Committee shall be convened at the earliest to resolve the matter. Unless the Mutual 
Recognition  Joint  Committee  decides  otherwise,  the  registration  of  the  challenged 
conformity assessment body shall be suspended by the relevant Designating Authority 
for  the  relevant  scope  of  designation  from  the  date  its  technical  competence  or 
compliance is challenged, until either: 
 
(a)  the challenging Party is satisfied as to the competence and compliance of 
the conformity assessment body; or  
 
(b)  the designation of that conformity assessment body has been withdrawn; 
or 
 
(c)  the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee decides to lift the suspension of 
the registration of the conformity assessment body. 
 
23.  The Sectoral Annex may provide for additional procedures such as verification 
and  time  limits.  This  may  involve  the  Mutual  Recognition  Joint  Committee  being 
  35  
 
activated.  Where the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee decides to conduct a joint 
verification, it will be conducted in a timely manner by the Parties with the participation 
of the Designating Authority that designated the contested conformity assessment body 
and with the prior consent of the conformity assessment body. The result of such joint 
verification shall be discussed in the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee with a view to 
resolving the issue within the time limit specified in the Sectoral Annex. 
 
24.  The  results  of  conformity  assessment  activities  undertaken  by  a  challenged 
conformity assessment body on or before the date of its suspension or withdrawal shall 
remain valid for acceptance for the purposes of paragraph 3. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.6: GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICES (GMP) 
 
1.  The  provisions  of  this  Article  apply  to  assessments  of  manufacturers  or 
manufacturing  processes  of  products,  and  their  mandatory  requirements  as  may  be 
specified in the relevant Sectoral Annexes.   
 
Obligations 
 
2.  In accordance with Article 2.4 of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to 
Trade, where technical regulations are required and relevant international standards exist 
or their completion is imminent, the Parties shall use them, or the relevant parts of them, 
as a basis for their mandatory requirements except when such international standards or 
relevant parts of them would be an ineffective  or inappropriate means for the legitimate 
objectives pursued, for instance because of fundamental climatic or geographical factors 
or fundamental technological problems. 
 
3.  A Party shall accept the test reports and/or the results of conformity assessment 
activities to demonstrate conformity of manufacturers or manufacturing processes of 
products with its mandatory requirements when the conformity assessment activities are 
undertaken by Inspection Body designated by the other Party’s Designating Authority 
and registered by the first mentioned Party’s Designating Authority in accordance with 
this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.7: EQUIVALENCE OF MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS 
 
1.  The Parties shall give favourable consideration to accepting the equivalence of 
each other’s mandatory requirements consistent with the purpose of this Chapter and the 
WTO Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. 
 
2.  A  Party  shall  accept  the  equivalence  of  the  mandatory  requirements,  and/or 
results of conformity assessment and approval procedures, of the other Party as set out in 
the respective Sectoral Annex. 
 
3.  For the purposes of paragraph 2, a Sectoral Annex shall provide the following 
details, as applicable: 
 
  36  
 
(a)  the procedures for determining and implementing the equivalence of each 
Party’s mandatory requirements; and/or 
 
(b)  the procedures for accepting the results of the conformity assessment and 
approval procedures; and  
 
(c)  the regulatory authorities designated by each Party. 
 
ARTICLE 5.8: JOINT COMMITTEE ON MUTUAL RECOGNITION 
 
1.  A  Joint  Committee  on  Mutual  Recognition  (“Mutual  Recognition  Joint 
Committee”) shall be established as a body responsible for the effective implementation 
of this Chapter. 
 
2.  The Mutual Recognition Joint Committee shall be led by co-chairs from both 
Parties. It shall comprise an equal number of senior representatives from both Parties 
with  an  understanding  of  this  Chapter,  its  objectives  and  application  and  with  the 
relevant expertise.  
 
3.  A representative: 
 
(a)  may be accompanied by advisers at meetings of the Mutual Recognition 
Joint Committee; and 
 
(b)  shall not hold a position which may give rise to a conflict of interest. 
 
4.  The Mutual Recognition Joint Committee shall: 
 
(a)  be responsible for administering and facilitating the effective functioning 
of this Chapter and the Sectoral Annexes including: 
 
(i)  facilitating the extension of this Chapter, including the addition of 
new  Sectoral  Annexes  or  an  increase  in  the  scope  of  existing 
Sectoral Annexes; 
 
(ii)  resolving any questions or disputes relating to the application of 
this Chapter and its Sectoral Annexes;  
 
(iii)  resolving  disagreement  over  registration  with  reference  to 
paragraph 5(c) of Article 5.5,  lifting of suspension of registration 
of  a  conformity  assessment  body  with  reference  to  paragraphs 
22(c) and 23 of Article 5.5; 
 
(iv)  establishing  appropriate  modalities  of  information  exchange 
referred to in this Chapter; 
 
(v)  appointing  experts  from  each  Party  for  joint  verification  when 
needed; and 
 
(vi)  discharging such other functions as provided for in this Chapter; 
  37  
 
(b)  be  the  contact  point  for  the  Parties  unless  otherwise  specified  in  the 
relevant Sectoral Annexes; 
 
(c)  determine its own rules of procedure; 
 
(d)  make its decisions and adopt its recommendations by consensus; and 
 
(e)  meet as and when required for the discharge of its functions, including 
upon the request of either Party. 
 
5.  In case any problem arising from the interpretation or application of this Chapter 
is not resolved through mutual consultations, the Parties shall seek an amicable solution 
through the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee. 
 
6.  The  Mutual  Recognition  Joint  Committee  may  establish  ad  hoc  groups  to 
undertake specific tasks, where necessary. 
 
7.  Any decision made by the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee shall be notified 
promptly in writing to each Party. 
 
8.  The  Parties  shall  bring  into  effect  the  relevant  decisions  of  the  Mutual 
Recognition Joint Committee. Where any problem arising from the interpretation or 
application of this Chapter is not resolved through mutual consultations, the Parties shall 
seek  an  amicable  solution  through  the  Mutual  Recognition  Joint  Committee  before 
making a request for an arbitral tribunal under Article 15.5. 
 
ARTICLE 5.9 : EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND COOPERATION 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  provide  notification  of  any  changes  to  their  mandatory 
requirements in accordance with their WTO obligations.  In exceptional cases where 
considerations of health, safety or environmental protection warrant more urgent action, 
each Party shall notify the other Party of changes within the time period set out in the 
relevant Sectoral Annex or if no time period is specified, at least 60 days before the 
changes enter into force. 
 
2.  The Parties shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, establish contact points to 
expeditiously: 
 
(a)  broaden the exchange of information; and 
 
(b)  give favourable consideration to any written request for consultation. 
 
3.  The Parties should endeavour to develop a work programme and mechanisms for 
co-operation activities in the areas of technical issues of mutual interest. 
 
 
  38  
 
ARTICLE 5.10: CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
1.  A Party shall not be required to disclose confidential proprietary information to 
the other Party except where such disclosure would be necessary for the other Party to 
demonstrate the technical competence of its designated conformity assessment body and 
conformity with the relevant stipulated requirements. 
 
2.  A Party shall, in accordance with its applicable laws, protect the confidentiality 
of any proprietary information disclosed to it in connection with conformity assessment 
activities and/or designation activities. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require either Party to furnish or 
allow access to information the disclosure of which it considers would: 
 
(a)  be contrary to its essential security interests; 
 
(b)  be contrary to the public interest as determined by its domestic laws, 
regulations and administrative provisions; 
 
(c)  be contrary to any of its domestic laws, regulations and administrative 
provisions including but not limited to those protecting personal privacy 
or the financial affairs and accounts of individual customers of financial 
institutions; 
 
(d)  impede law enforcement; or  
 
(e)  prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular public or private 
enterprises. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.11: PRESERVATION OF REGULATORY AUTHORITY 
 
1.  Each Party retains all authority under its laws to interpret and implement its 
mandatory requirements. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not: 
 
(a)  prevent  a  Party  from  adopting  or  maintaining,  in  accordance  with  its 
international  rights  and  obligations,  mandatory  requirements,  as 
appropriate to its particular national circumstances;  
 
(b)  prevent a Party from adopting mandatory requirements to determine the 
level  of  protection  it  considers  necessary  to  ensure  the  quality  of  its 
imports, or for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health, or 
the environment, or for the prevention of deceptive practices or to fulfil 
other legitimate objectives, at the levels it considers appropriate. 
 
(c)  limit the authority of a Party to take all appropriate measures whenever it 
ascertains  that  products  may  not  conform  with  its  mandatory 
requirements. Such measures may include withdrawing the products from 
  39  
 
the market, prohibiting their placement on the market, restricting their 
free movement, initiating a product recall, initiating legal proceedings or 
otherwise preventing the recurrence of such problems including through a 
prohibition on imports. If a Party takes such measures, it shall notify the 
other Party within 15 days of taking the measures, giving its reasons; 
 
(d)  oblige  a  Party  to  accept  the  standards  or  technical  regulations  or 
mandatory requirements of the other Party; 
 
(e)  entail an obligation upon a Party to accept the results of the conformity 
assessment  activities  and/or  assessment  of  manufacturers  or 
manufacturing processes of products and their mandatory requirements of 
any third country save where there is an expressed agreement between  
the Parties to do so; or 
 
(f)  be construed so as to affect the rights and obligations of either Party as a 
member of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade or WTO 
Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.12: FINAL PROVISIONS ON SECTORAL ANNEXES 
 
1.  Sectoral Annexes are attached to this Agreement as Annex 5A, Annex 5B and 
Annex 5C which shall provide the detailed implementing arrangements in respect of the 
product sectors specified therein.  
 
2.  In  addition,  the  Parties  may  subsequently  conclude  as  appropriate,  Sectoral 
Annexes on other product sectors which shall provide the implementing arrangements 
for such other sectors.  
 
3.  The Parties shall: 
 
(a)  specify and communicate to each other the applicable articles or annexes 
contained in the mandatory requirements set out in the Sectoral Annexes; 
 
(b)  exchange information concerning the implementation of the mandatory 
requirements specified in the Sectoral Annexes; 
 
(c)  notify each other of any scheduled changes in their respective mandatory 
requirements as and when they are made; and 
 
(d)  notify each other of any scheduled changes concerning their respective 
Designating  Authorities  as  well  as  registered  conformity  assessment 
bodies. 
 
4.   Unless otherwise provided for, a Sectoral Annex concluded pursuant to paragraph 
2 shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which 
the  Parties  have  exchanged  notes  confirming  the  completion  of  their  respective 
procedures for the entry into force of that Sectoral Annex. 
 
  40  
 
5.  A Party may terminate a Sectoral Annex in its entirety by giving the other Party 
six months advance notice in writing unless otherwise stated in the relevant Sectoral 
Annex. However, a Party shall continue to accept the results of conformity assessment or 
equivalence for the duration of the six-month notice period. 
 
6.  Where urgent problems of safety, health, consumer or environment protection or 
national  security  arise  or  threaten  to  arise  for  a  Party,  that  Party  may  suspend  the 
operation of any Sectoral Annex, in whole or in part, immediately. In such a case, the 
Party shall immediately advise the other Party of the nature of the urgent problem, the 
products covered and the objective and rationale of the suspension.  
 
 
 
  41 