 
 
ANNEX 7A 
 
INDIA’S SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
 
401  
402  
403 404 405 406 407 408 409 410 411 412 413  
                                                 
 1  Excluding broadcasting services and measures affecting such services. Broadcasting is defined as a form of the uni-directional telecommunications intended for large 
number of users having appropriate receiving facilities and carried out by means of radio or cable network. This may include sound transmission, television transmission or 
other types of transmission. 
 
414 415 416                                                  
2 PSTN refers to Public Telephone Service Network which is operated by licensed operators 
417 418 419 420 421 422  
423 424  
 
 
425 426 427 428 429 430 431 432 433  
434  
 
435 436  
437  
438 439  
Attachment A 
 
Definitions Related to Maritime Transport Services 
 
1.  “International Transport (Freight and Passenger)”, for the purpose of this schedule, is to mean transportation of international 
Maritime Freight and Passengers by sea going vessels from the port of loading in one country to the port of discharge in another 
country. 
2.  Cabotage: This Schedule does not include any commitments on “Cabotage” or “Maritime Transport Services” which are 
described as transportation of passengers or goods between any port located in India and any other port also located in India and 
traffic originating and terminating in the same port located in the country and further includes transportation of passengers or goods 
between a port located in India and installation and structures situated on the continental shelf of India. 
3.  Offshore Transport: for the purposes of the schedule only, “Offshore Transport” refers to shipping services involving the 
transportation of passengers or goods between a port located in India and any location installation or structure associated with or 
incidental to the exploration or exploitation of natural resources of the continental shelf of India, the seabed of the Indian coastal seas 
and the subsoil of the seabed, or situated on the continental shelf of India. 
4.  “Other forms of Commercial Presence for the supply of International Transport Services” means ability for International 
Maritime Transport Service suppliers to undertake local activities which are necessary for the supply to their customers of a partially 
or fully integrated transport service, within which maritime transport constitutes a substantial element. 
  These activities include, but are not limited to: 
 
a.  marketing and sales of maritime transport  and related services through direct contact with customers, from quotation to 
invoicing, these services being those operated or offered by the service supplier itself or by service suppliers with which the 
service seller has established standing business arrangements; 
b.  acquisition on their own about or on behalf of their customers (and the resale to their customers) for any transport and 
related services, including anchorage, berth and berth services, and onward transport services by any mode, particularly 
road and rail, inland waterways, necessary for the supply of the integrated services; 
c.  the preparation of transport documents, customs documents, or other documents related to the origin  and character of 
goods transported; 
d.  the provision of business information, including computerized information systems and electronic data interchange; 
e.  setting up of business arrangements with any locally established shipping agency and the appointment of personnel recruited 
locally (or, in the case of foreign personnel, subject to horizontal commitments on movement of personnel); 
440 f.  organizing any aspect of the call of the vessel or taking control over cargoes; 
g.  the provision of Ships Managers’ Services. 
 
NOTE: {In order to enforce certain standards and conditions which need to be fulfilled by shipping service suppliers, particularly 
those providing ship personnel and crew and also those engaged in providing ships management services, and to ensure that the 
owner, operator, agent or manager has: 
 
-  the capability of implementing international standards as well as IMO stipulations and recommendations; 
-  the necessary financial structure so that he is responsible and accountable; 
-  the capability of implementing, the safety; and marine pollution controls; 
-  fulfilled requirements of quality management and his operations are transparent; 
 
  a system of registration/ licensing of shipping service supplier is under consideration in India} 
 
5.  “Ship Managers” means persons entering India as the agents or representatives of a ship’s owner or operator for the purposes 
of assessing requirements, negotiating and authorizing expenditures necessary to the maintenance and operations of a vessel as well as 
the Handling of Cargo. 
6.  “Maritime Cargo Handling Services” means activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but not 
including the direct activities of dock workers, when this workforce is organized independently of the stevedoring or terminal 
operator companies.  The activities covered, include the organization and supervision of: 
- the loading/ discharging of cargo to/ from a ship; 
- the lashing/unlashing of cargo; 
- the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge. 
 
  The organization and supervision includes the arrangements for (1) engaging skilled workers (dockworkers), (2) using all 
necessary equipment for on board or shore use and appropriate storage space, whether by ownership, rental or otherwise, (3) the 
checking of parcels and markings, the weighing and measuring of cargo, and (4) the administrative duties and responsibilities related 
to the services. 
 
7.   “Maritime Freight Forwarding Services” means the activity of organizing and monitoring shipments on behalf of shippers 
through providing such services as the arrangement of actual transport and related services, consolidation, aggregation, packing of 
cargo, preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
441  
8.  “Maritime Agency Services” means  activities in representing, within a given geographic area, the business interests of-one or 
more shipping lines or shipping companies for the following purposes: 
 
- marketing and sales of maritime transport and related activities from quotation to invoicing (cargo booking and canvassing) 
- issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies; 
-  acquisition  and  resale  of  other  necessary  related  services  (settlement  of  disbursements  and  claims)  preparation  of 
documentation, and provision of business information; 
- acting on behalf of the companies in organizing the call of the ship or taking control of cargoes; 
- to make arrangement in order to get all necessary port services required by the foreign vessel during its stay in Indian Ports; 
- to appoint a stevedoring company for cargo loading and unloading on behalf of its principal; 
- to collect freight on behalf of the principal. 
 
9.  “Custom Clearance Services” (alternatively Customs House Agents/Brokers) means activities consisting of carrying out on 
behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import export or through transport fo cargoes irrespective of whether this is 
the main or secondary activity of the services provider. 
 
10.  “Government Cargo”  means cargo originating from other countries (import cargoes including crude oil), petroleum by 
products, coal, natural gas, raw materials for fertilizers, food-grains etc.) purchased by Indian Government Agencies/ Departments or 
based on loan/ credit agreements with other countries, as well as exports by Indian Government Agencies/ Departments including 
Government aid. 
 
11.  “Container Station and Depot Services” means activities consisting of storing containers, whether in port areas or inland, with 
a view to their stuffing/ stripping, repairs and making them available for shipments. 
 
12.  “Maintenance  and  Repairs  of  Vessels”  means  services  such  as  repairs  and  management  of  vessels,  mending,  fixing  or 
overhauling of a vessel, management of crew and marine insurance, provided on behalf of a maritime passenger or cargo transport 
business, or vessel leasing business. 
 
13.  “International rental of vessels with crew or on bare-boat charter basis” means rental and/ or leasing services of all types of 
sea-going vessels with crew or on bare-boat basis (whereafter the ship will be manned by Indian nationals only during the period of 
rental/ lease) for the purposes of international trade (like tankers, dry bulk cargo vessels, cargo and freight vessels etc). 
442 