ANNEX 5A 
 
SECTORAL ANNEX FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT 
 
 
Pursuant to Chapter 5, the Parties agree on this Sectoral Annex for Telecommunications 
Equipment. 
 
 
1.  Scope and Definitions 
 
1.1  This Sectoral Annex applies to telecommunications equipment including wire and 
wireless  equipment,  and  terrestrial  and  satellite  equipment,  whether  or  not 
connected  to a  Public  Telecommunications  Transport Network  subject  to the 
Regulations of each Party.  
 
1.2  This Sectoral Annex covers two phases, namely: 
 
(a)  Phase I, which refers to the mutual recognition of test reports; and 
 
(b)  Phase II, which refers to the mutual recognition of equipment certification 
   
1.3  The  Mandatory  Requirements  governing  the  scope  of  telecommunications 
equipment  and  conformity  assessment  activities  of  this  Sectoral  Annex,  as 
amended in accordance with paragraph 3 from time to time, are stipulated in 
Table 1 and Table 2 respectively. 
 
1.4  For the purposes of this Sectoral Annex: 
 
(a)  Public  Telecommunications  Transport  Network  means  public 
telecommunications  infrastructure  which  permits  telecommunications 
between and among defined network termination points. 
 
  (b)  Mandatory Requirements means a Party’s applicable laws, regulations 
and administrative provisions, including licence conditions  
 
  (c)  Conformity Assessment Bodies designated under this Sectoral Annex 
shall be: 
 
(i)   Test Facilities; and/or 
 
(ii)  Certification Bodies 
 
1.5  The conformity assessment activities for which Conformity Assessment Bodies 
may be designated under this Sectoral Annex are: 
  340  
 
(a)  testing by designated Test Facilities; and/or 
 
(b)  certification by designated Certification Bodies (hereinafter referred to as 
"equipment certification".) 
 
that  telecommunications  equipment  complies  with  relevant  Mandatory   
Requirements. 
 
2.  Obligations 
 
2.1  Each  Party  shall  accept  test  reports  and/or  equipment  certification  that 
demonstrate compliance with its Mandatory Requirements, provided that these 
test reports and/or equipment certification are issued by registered Conformity 
Assessment Bodies of the other Party. 
 
3.  Exchange of Information 
 
3.1  The  Parties’  Regulatory  Authorities or  responsible agencies  shall,  in writing, 
notify each other, the Mutual Recognition Joint Committee and, as appropriate, 
the  relevant  Designating  Authorities,  of  any  amendment  to  any  Mandatory 
Requirements listed in Tables 1 to 4 of this Sectoral Annex and thereby amend the 
relevant portion of the Table. Except where considerations of health, safety and 
the environment warrant more urgent action, such notification shall take place at 
least 60 calendar days before the entry into force of the amendments. 
 
3.2  For this purpose “amendment” shall include the following cases where: 
 
(a)   a Party entirely or partially changes its Mandatory Requirements, whether 
or not those names are changed; 
 
(b)   a Party repeals its Mandatory Requirements and adopts new Mandatory 
Requirements as a substitute for the former, whether or not the previous 
names are changed; and 
 
(c)  a  Party  incorporates  the  whole  or  a  relevant  part  of  its  Mandatory 
Requirements  into  other  laws,  regulations,  administrative  provisions, 
measures and/or  practices. 
   
  341  
4.  Designated Authorities  
4.1  The Designating Authority must have the legal mandate to perform designation as 
set out in Table 3. 
4.2  For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, India’s Designating Authority shall be the 
Department  of  Telecommunications,  Ministry  of  Communications  and 
Information Technology, Government of India (DOT). 
4.3  For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, Singapore's Designating Authority shall 
be the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA). 
 
5.  Designation of Conformity Assessment Bodies and Stipulated Requirements 
 
5.1  The designation and registration of Conformity Assessment Bodies shall be in 
accordance with Mandatory Requirements and meet with the stipulated criteria for 
designation as set out in Table 4. 
 
5.2  Designating Authorities : 
 
(a)  shall specify the scope of the conformity assessment activities for which a 
Conformity Assessment Body has been designated.  When a Conformity 
Assessment  Body  is  designated  to  undertake  conformity  assessment 
activities with regard to particular Mandatory Requirements, the relevant 
obligations of acceptance shall be limited to the results of assessments in 
relation to those particular Mandatory Requirements; 
 
(b)  shall only designate Conformity Assessment Bodies where the Conformity 
Assessment  Body,  or  the  organisation  of  which  the  Conformity 
Assessment Body is a part, is a legal person in the relevant jurisdiction; 
 
(c)  shall give advance notice of at least 7 calendar days of any changes, 
including suspension, to their list of designated Conformity Assessment 
Bodies; and 
 
(d)  shall not have any direct or undue influence on the decisions made by 
designated  Conformity  Assessment  Bodies  in  certification  of  products 
under the MRA.  
 
5.3    Designated Conformity Assessment Bodies shall not be influenced by a body that 
manufactures  or  trades  in  telecommunications  equipment.    Furthermore, 
designated Conformity Assessment Bodies shall be impartial.  Any other services 
offered by a Conformity Assessment Body shall be provided in a manner that 
does not compromise the objectivity of its conformity assessment activities and 
decisions. 
 
  342 5.4  Designating Authorities shall only designate Conformity Assessment Bodies that 
are able to demonstrate that they understand, have experience relevant to and are 
technically competent to undertake the conformity assessment activities for which 
they are designated. 
 
5.5  Demonstration of technical competence shall be based on: 
 
(a)  technological knowledge of the relevant products, processes or services; 
 
(b)  understanding of the technical standards and the general risk protection 
requirements for which designation is sought; 
 
(c)  the experience relevant to the applicable Mandatory Requirements; 
 
(d)  the  physical  capability  to  perform  the  relevant  conformity  assessment 
activities; 
 
(e)  an  adequate  management  of  the  conformity  assessment  activities 
concerned; and 
 
(f)  any other circumstance necessary to give assurance that the conformity 
assessment activities shall be adequately performed on a consistent basis. 
 
5.6  The  basis  for  designating  Test  Facilities  shall  be  accreditation  to  ISO/IEC 
17025:1999 or its successor, which shall constitute sufficient proof of technical 
competence  to  undertake  conformity  assessment  activities  that  demonstrate 
conformity with the Mandatory Requirements for which they are to be designated, 
provided that: 
 
(a)  the accreditation process is conducted in compliance with ISO/IEC Guide 
58:1993 or its successor; and 
 
(b)  the accreditation body participates in mutual recognition arrangements, 
such as the Asia Pacific Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (APLAC) 
Mutual  Recognition  Arrangement,  where  they  are  subject  to  peer 
evaluation  of  the  competence  of  accreditation  bodies  and  the  Test 
Facilities accredited by them. 
 
5.7  The basis for designating Certification Bodies shall be accreditation to ISO/IEC 
Guide 65:1996 or its successor, which shall constitute sufficient proof of technical 
competence  to  undertake  conformity  assessment  activities  that  demonstrate 
conformity with the Mandatory Requirements, for which they are to be designated 
provided that: 
  343  
(a)  the accreditation process is conducted in compliance with ISO/IEC Guide 
61:1996 or its successor; and 
 
(b)  the  accreditation  body  is  a  member  of  the  Pacific  Accreditation 
Cooperation and is a signatory to a mutual recognition arrangement where 
they are subject to peer evaluation of the competence of accreditation 
bodies and the Certification Bodies accredited by them. 
 
5.8  When designating a Conformity Assessment Body, the Designating Authority 
shall  provide  to  the  other  Party  the  following  details  in  respect  of  each 
Conformity Assessment Body it designates: 
 
(a)  the name; 
 
(b)  the postal address; 
 
(c)  the facsimile (fax) number; 
 
(d)  email address (if available); 
 
(e)  name and telephone number of the contact person; 
 
(f)  scope  of  designation  detailing  range  of  products,  reference  standards, 
methods of certification, capability and other relevant details; 
 
(g)  designating procedure used, if there is any changed from Table 4 of the 
Sectoral Annex; and 
 
(h)  date of effect of designation. 
 
5.9  Designated  Conformity  Assessment  Bodies  shall  maintain  a  list  of 
telecommunications equipment they have assessed and, on a request of a Party, 
shall provide the list to that Party. 
 
6.  Verification, Suspension and Withdrawal of Conformity Assessment Bodies 
 
6.1  For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, the time period specified in Article 5.5 
shall be 70 calendar days.  
 
7.  Review 
 
7.1  In accordance with the review procedures under Article 16.3, the Parties shall 
commence discussions with the view to: 
 
  344 (a)  expanding  the  scope  of  telecommunications  equipment  covered  under 
Table 1 of this Sectoral Annex; and 
 
(b)  implementing Phase II of this Sectoral Annex. 
 
8.  Entry into Force 
 
8.1  The implementation of Phase I of this Sectoral Annex shall take place within one 
year of the entry into force of this Agreement.  
8.2  The  Parties  shall  discuss the  implementation  of Phase  II  in  accordance  with 
paragraph 7 of this Sectoral Annex. 
 
 
 
 
  345  
 
TABLE 1 
 
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS STIPULATING 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT COVERED BY THIS 
SECTORAL ANNEX 
 
 
 
 
  346 TABLE 2 
 
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS STIPULATING CONFORMITY 
ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES COVERED BY THIS SECTORAL 
ANNEX 
 
 
  347 TABLE 3 
 
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS PROVIDING LEGAL MANDATE FOR 
DESIGNATING AUTHORITIES 
 
 
  348 TABLE 4 
 
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS STIPULATING THE CRITERIA FOR 
DESIGNATION 
 
 
 
 
 
  349 