 
 
CHAPTER 15 
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.1: SCOPE AND COVERAGE 
 
1.  Unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Parties  elsewhere  in  this  Agreement,  the 
provisions of this Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance or settlement of 
disputes  between  the  Parties  concerning  their  rights  and  obligations  under  this 
Agreement.  
 
2.  The  rules  and  procedures  set  out  in  this  Chapter  may  be  waived,  varied  or 
modified by mutual agreement. 
 
3.  The provisions of this Chapter may be invoked in respect of measures affecting 
the observance of this Agreement taken by regional or local governments or authorities 
within the territory of a Party. When an arbitral tribunal has ruled that a provision of this 
Agreement has not been observed, the responsible Party shall take such measures as may 
be required to ensure its observance within its territory.   
 
4.  Arbitral tribunals shall interpret the provisions of this Agreement in accordance 
with customary rules of interpretation of public international law. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.2: DEFINITION  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the term “award” shall, unless the context 
otherwise requires, mean findings, recommendations and/or rulings, as the case may be, 
and shall exclude payment of monetary compensation by the Party concerned. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.3: CONSULTATIONS   
 
1.  Each Party shall accord adequate opportunity for consultations regarding any 
representations  made  by  the  other  Party  with  respect  to  any  matter  affecting  the 
implementation, interpretation or application of this Agreement.  Any differences shall, 
as far as possible, be settled by consultation between the Parties. 
 
2.    Any Party which considers that any benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly 
under  this  Agreement  is  being  nullified  or  impaired,  or  that  the  attainment  of  any 
objective of this Agreement is being impeded, as a result of the failure of the other Party 
to  carry  out  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  may,  with  a  view  to  achieving 
satisfactory settlement of the matter, make representations to the other Party, which shall 
give consideration to the representations made to it. 
 
3.  Any request for consultations shall be submitted in writing and shall give the 
reasons for the request, including identification of the measures at issue and an indication 
of the legal basis of the complaint.  
 
  91  
 
4.  If a request for consultation is made pursuant to this Article, the Party to which 
the request is made shall reply to the request within 10 days after the date of its receipt 
and shall enter into consultations within a period of no more than 30 days after the date 
of receipt of the request, with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. 
 
5.  The Parties shall make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of 
any matter through consultations.  To this end, the Parties shall: 
 
(a)  provide sufficient information as may be reasonably available at the stage 
of consultations to enable a full examination of how the measure might 
affect the operation of the Agreement; and 
 
(b)  treat as confidential any information exchanged in the consultations which 
the other Party has designated as confidential. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.4: GOOD OFFICES, CONCILIATION OR MEDIATION 
 
1.  The Parties may at any time agree to good offices, conciliation or mediation.  
They may begin at any time and be terminated by either Party at any time. 
 
2.  If the Parties agree, procedures for good offices, conciliation or mediation may 
continue while the dispute proceeds for resolution before an arbitral tribunal appointed 
under Article 15.5. 
 
3.  All proceedings under this Article shall be confidential and without prejudice to 
the rights of either Party in any further proceedings under the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.5: APPOINTMENT OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNALS 
 
If the consultations fail to settle a dispute within 60 days after the date of receipt 
of the request for consultations, the Party which made the request for consultations may 
make a written request to the other Party to appoint an arbitral tribunal under this Article.  
The request shall include a statement of the claim and the grounds on which it is based. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.6: COMPOSITION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNALS 
 
1.  The arbitral tribunal referred to in Article 15.5 shall consist of three members. 
Each Party shall appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the receipt of the request under 
Article  15.5.  If  a  Party  fails  to  appoint  an  arbitrator  within  such  period,  then  the 
Arbitrator appointed by the other Party shall act as the sole arbitrator of the Tribunal.  
 
2.  Once the Parties have  appointed their respective arbitrators, the Parties shall 
endeavour to agree on a third arbitrator who shall serve as chair. If the Parties are unable 
to agree on the chair of the arbitral tribunal within 30 days after the date on which the 
second arbitrator has been appointed, the chair shall be appointed in the presence of both 
Parties by a draw of lot from a list comprising four nominees of each Party. If a Party 
fails to submit its list of four nominees within 10 days of the other Party submitting its 
  92  
 
list, the chair shall be appointed by a draw of lot from the list already submitted by the 
other Party.    
 
3.  Any person appointed as a member or chair of the arbitral tribunal shall have 
expertise  or  experience  in  law,  international  trade,  other  matters  covered  by  this 
Agreement or the resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements, and 
shall  be  chosen  strictly  on  the  basis  of  objectivity,  reliability,  sound  judgment  and 
independence.  Except  in  the  case  of  a  sole  arbitrator  appointed  in  accordance  with 
paragraph 1, the chair shall not be a national of either Party and shall not have his or her 
usual place of residence in the territory of, nor  be employed by, either Party, nor have 
dealt with the case in any capacity. 
 
4.  If an arbitrator appointed under this Article resigns or becomes unable to act, a 
successor shall be appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the appointment of the 
original arbitrator and the successor shall have all the powers and duties of the original 
arbitrator. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.7: FUNCTIONS OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNALS 
 
1.  The function of an arbitral tribunal is to make an objective assessment of the 
dispute before it, including an examination of the facts of the case and the applicability 
of and conformity with this Agreement.  Where the arbitral tribunal concludes that a 
measure is inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, it shall recommend that the 
Party in default bring the measure into conformity with that provision.  
 
2.   The award of the arbitral tribunal shall be set out in a report released to the 
Parties, including the reasons for the award.  An arbitral tribunal may make its award 
upon the default of a Party. 
 
3.   An arbitral tribunal shall take its decisions by consensus; provided that where an 
arbitral tribunal is unable to reach consensus it may take its decisions by majority vote. 
 
4.    Apart from the matters set out in Article 15.8, the arbitral tribunal shall regulate 
its own procedures in relation to the rights of the Parties to be heard and its deliberations, 
unless the Parties agree otherwise in writing. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.8: PROCEEDINGS OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNALS 
 
1.  An arbitral tribunal shall meet in closed session. The Parties shall be present at 
the meetings only when invited by the arbitral tribunal to appear before it.  
 
2.  The venue for the proceedings of the arbitral tribunal shall be decided by mutual 
agreement  between  the  Parties.  If  there  is  no  agreement,  the  venue  shall  alternate 
between the capitals of the two countries with the venue of the first sitting to be decided 
by a draw of lot in the presence of the Parties.   
 
3.  The deliberations of an arbitral tribunal and the documents submitted to it shall 
be kept confidential.  Nothing in this Article shall preclude a Party from disclosing 
  93  
 
statements of its own positions or its submissions to the public; provided that a Party 
shall treat as confidential information submitted by the other Party to the arbitral tribunal 
which that Party has designated as confidential.  Where a Party submits a confidential 
version of its written submissions to the arbitral tribunal, it shall also, upon request of the 
other Party, provide a non-confidential summary of the information contained in its 
submissions that could be disclosed to the public. 
 
4.  Before the first substantive meeting of the arbitral tribunal with the Parties, the 
Parties shall transmit to the arbitral tribunal written submissions in which they present 
the facts of their case and their arguments. 
 
5.  At its first substantive meeting with the Parties, the arbitral tribunal shall ask the 
Party which has brought the complaint to present its submission.  Subsequently, and still 
at the same meeting, the Party against which the complaint has been brought shall be 
asked to present its submission. 
 
6.  Formal rebuttals shall be made at a second substantive meeting of the arbitral 
tribunal.  The Party complained against shall have the right to present its submission 
first, and shall be followed by the complaining Party.  The Parties shall submit, prior to 
the meeting, written rebuttals to the arbitral tribunal. 
 
7.  The arbitral tribunal may at any time put questions to the Parties and ask them for 
explanations either in the course of a meeting with the Parties or in writing. 
 
8.  The Parties shall make available to the arbitral tribunal a written version of their 
oral statements. 
 
9.  In the interests of full transparency, the presentations, rebuttals and statements 
referred to in paragraphs 4 to 6 shall be made in the presence of the Parties.  Moreover, 
each Party’s written submissions, including any comments on the report, written versions 
of oral statements and responses to questions put by the arbitral tribunal, shall be made 
available to the other Party.  There shall be no ex parte communications with the arbitral 
tribunal concerning matters under consideration by it. 
 
10.  At the request of a Party to the arbitral proceeding or on its own initiative, the 
arbitral tribunal may seek information and technical advice from any person or body that 
it deems appropriate, provided that the Parties to the arbitral proceedings so agree and 
subject to such terms and conditions as such Parties may agree. 
 
11.   The report of the arbitral tribunal shall be drafted without the presence of the 
Parties in the light of the information provided and the statements made.  The arbitral 
tribunal shall accord adequate opportunity to the Parties to review the entirety of its draft 
report prior to its finalisation and shall include a discussion of any comments by the 
Parties in its final report. 
 
12.   The arbitral tribunal shall release to the Parties its final report on the dispute 
referred to it within 60 days of its formation.  When the arbitral tribunal considers that it 
cannot release its final report within 60 days, it shall inform the Parties in writing of the 
reasons for the delay together with an estimate of the period within which it will issue its 
  94  
 
report.  The final report of the arbitral tribunal shall become a public document within 10 
days after its release to the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.9: SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS 
 
1.  Where the Parties agree, the arbitral tribunal may suspend its work at any time for 
a period not exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement.   If the work of the 
arbitral  tribunal  has  been  suspended  for  more  than  12  months,  the  authority  for 
establishment of the tribunal shall lapse unless the Parties agree otherwise. 
 
 
2.   The  Parties  may  agree  to  terminate  the  proceedings  of  an  arbitral  tribunal 
established under this Agreement, in the event that a mutually satisfactory solution to the 
dispute has been found.  
 
3.   Before  the  arbitral  tribunal  makes  its  decision,  it  may  at  any  stage  of  the 
proceedings propose to the Parties that the dispute be settled amicably. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.10: TIME FRAMES 
 
All time frames stipulated in this Chapter may be reduced, waived or extended by 
mutual agreement of the Parties, or by application by either Party to the arbitral tribunal 
which is seized of the matter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.11: IMPLEMENTATION 
 
1.  The Party concerned shall comply with the arbitral tribunal’s award within a 
reasonable period of time.  The reasonable period of time shall be mutually determined 
by the Parties or, where the Parties fail to agree on the reasonable period of time within 
45 days of the release of the arbitral tribunal’s report, either Party may refer the matter to 
the tribunal, which shall determine the reasonable period of time following consultation 
with the Parties. 
 
2.   Where  there  is  disagreement  as  to  the  existence  or  consistency  with  this 
Agreement of measures taken within the reasonable period of time to comply with the 
award of the arbitral tribunal, such dispute shall be decided through recourse to the 
dispute settlement procedures in this Chapter, including wherever possible by resort to 
the original arbitral tribunal.  The arbitral tribunal shall provide its report to the Parties 
within 60 days after the date of the referral of the matter to it.  When the arbitral tribunal 
considers that it cannot provide its report within this timeframe, it shall inform the 
Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together with an estimate of the period 
within which it will submit its report. 
 
 
 
 
 
  95  
 
ARTICLE 15.12: COMPENSATION AND SUSPENSION OF BENEFITS 
 
1.  If the Party concerned fails to bring the measure found to be inconsistent with the 
Agreement into compliance with the award of the arbitral tribunal under paragraph 2 of 
Article 15.11 within 20 days of the report of that arbitral tribunal being provided to the 
Parties, that Party shall, if so requested, enter into negotiations with the complaining 
Party with a view to reaching a mutually acceptable compensation or solution.  
 
2.  If no mutually acceptable compensation or solution has been reached within 20 
days  after  the  request  of  the  complaining  Party  to  enter  into  negotiations  on 
compensatory  adjustment,  the  complaining  Party  may  request  the  original  arbitral 
tribunal to determine the appropriate level of any suspension of benefits conferred on the 
other Party under this Agreement.  Where the original arbitral tribunal cannot hear the 
matter for any reason, a new tribunal shall be appointed under Article 15.5. 
 
3.   Any suspension of benefits shall be restricted to benefits accruing to the other 
Party under this Agreement. 
 
4.   In considering what benefits to suspend under paragraph 2: 
 
(a)  the complaining Party should first seek to suspend benefits in the same 
sector or sectors as that affected by the measure or other matter that the 
arbitral tribunal has found to be inconsistent with this Agreement or to 
have caused nullification or impairment; and 
 
(b)  the complaining Party may suspend benefits in other sectors if it considers 
that it is not practicable or effective to suspend benefits in the same 
sector. 
 
5.  The suspension of benefits shall be temporary and shall only be applied until such 
time as the measure found to be inconsistent with this Agreement has been removed, or 
the Party that must implement the arbitral tribunal’s award has done so, or a mutually 
acceptable compensation or solution is reached. 
 
6.  With  respect  to  paragraph  5,  any  dispute  between  the  Parties  on  whether  a 
particular measure found by the arbitral tribunal to be inconsistent with this Agreement 
has been removed or brought into conformity with the arbitral tribunal’s award shall be 
referred to the same tribunal for a final decision. The complaining Party shall refer the 
matter to the arbitral tribunal together with its submissions and the other Party shall 
respond within 15 days thereafter so that the arbitral tribunal can give its final decision 
within 15 days of the latter Party’s response. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.13: EXPENSES 
 
Each Party shall bear the costs of its appointed arbitrator and its own expenses 
and legal costs.  The costs of the Chair of the arbitral tribunal and other expenses 
associated with the conduct of its proceedings shall be borne in equal parts by both 
Parties. 
 
  96 