 
 
5 
 
CHAPTER 2 
 
TRADE IN GOODS 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.1: DEFINITIONS  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, 
 
Anti-Dumping Agreement means Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the 
GATT 1994; 
 
ATA Carnet Convention means the Customs Convention on the A.T.A. Carnet For The 
Temporary Admission Of Goods; 
 
ATA carnet has the same meaning as defined in the ATA Carnet Convention; 
 
customs duties means duties2-1 imposed in connection with the importation of a good 
provided that such customs duties shall not include: 
 
(a) 
charges equivalent to internal taxes, including excise duties and  goods 
and services taxes imposed consistently with  a Party’s WTO obligations;  
 
(b)  
any anti-dumping or countervailing duty or safeguard measures applied 
consistently with provisions of the relevant WTO Agreements; 
 
(c) 
fees or other charges that are limited in amount to the approximate cost of 
services rendered, and do not represent a direct or indirect protection for 
domestic goods or a taxation of imports for fiscal purposes; 
 
domestic industry means the producers as a whole of the like or directly competitive 
product operating in the territory of a Party, or those whose collective output of the like 
or directly competitive products constitutes a major proportion of the total domestic 
production of those products; 
 
 MFN means “most favoured nation” treatment in accordance with Article I of GATT 
1994; 
 
originating goods has the same meaning as defined in Chapter 3;  
 
preferential treatment means any concession or privilege granted under this Agreement 
by a Party; 
 
products means all products including manufactures and commodities in their raw, semi 
processed and processed forms; 
 
                                                 
2-1 Customs duties for India refer to basic customs duties as included in the National Customs Schedules of 
India. 
 
 
6 
 
serious injury means a significant overall impairment in the position of a domestic 
industry; 
 
threat of serious injury means serious injury that, on the basis of facts and not merely 
on allegation, conjecture or remote possibility, is clearly imminent. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.2: NATIONAL TREATMENT  
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in 
accordance with Article III of the GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.3: REDUCTION AND/OR ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
1. 
Each Party shall reduce and/or eliminate its customs duties on originating goods 
of the other Party in accordance with Annex 2A and Annex 2B and their respective 
headnotes. 
 
2. 
Upon request by a Party, the Parties shall consult each other to consider the 
possibility of accelerating the reduction and/or elimination of customs duties as set out in 
the Annexes referred to in paragraph 1. An agreement by the Parties to accelerate the 
reduction and/or elimination of customs duties on any goods, shall replace the terms 
established for those goods in this Article and the Annexes referred to in paragraph 1 in 
accordance with Article 16.7. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.4: RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
Products covered by the provisions of this Agreement shall be eligible for 
preferential treatment provided they satisfy the Rules of Origin as set out in Chapter 3. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.5: NON TARIFF MEASURES 
 
1.  
Neither Party shall adopt or maintain any non-tariff measures on the importation 
of any goods of the other Party or on the exportation of any goods destined for the 
territory of the other Party except in accordance with its WTO rights and obligations or 
in accordance with other provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that such measures are not prepared, adopted or applied 
with a view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to trade between the 
Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.6: CUSTOMS VALUE 
 
 
Each Party shall determine the customs value of goods traded between them in 
accordance with the provisions of Article VII of the GATT 1994 and the WTO 
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the GATT 1994. 
 
 
7 
 
ARTICLE 2.7: ANTI-DUMPING 
 
ARTICLE 2.7.1:   NOTIFICATION OF PETITION FOR INVESTIGATION AND EXCHANGE OF      
INFORMATION 
 
1. 
The investigating authority of a Party shall, upon accepting a properly 
documented application for the initiation of an anti-dumping investigation in respect of 
goods from the other Party, and before proceeding to initiate such anti-dumping 
investigation, notify the other Party at least 7 working days in advance of the date of 
initiation of such an investigation. 
 
2. 
In addition to the usual practice regarding notification in anti-dumping 
investigations, and without prejudice to Article 16.2, each Party shall, for the purposes of 
paragraph 1, designate a contact point to which such notification shall be conveyed 
through electronic means. Both Parties recognise that it may not always be practicable 
for such notification to include attachments and enclosures referred to therein. 
 
3. 
A Party whose good is subject to an anti-dumping investigation by the other 
Party, may, by the due date for the submission of the response to the questionnaire2-2, 
inform, where applicable, the investigating Party that there are no exports of that good to 
the investigating Party. Such information, together with all relevant information on 
record, shall be taken into account by the investigating authority of the other Party in its 
findings. 
 
ARTICLE 2.7.2: INCOMPLETE INFORMATION 
 
Where the information provided by the exporter or producer under anti-dumping 
investigation may not be ideal in all respects and provided that the producer or exporter 
concerned has acted to the best of his ability, the investigating authority of a Party shall, 
before rejecting the information, use its best endeavours to obtain more complete 
information for the purposes of the investigation including, where requested, granting a 
reasonable extension of time to the producer or exporter concerned to make a more 
detailed and proper response in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Dumping 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 2.7.3: USE OF INFORMATION 
 
1. 
Where originating goods are subject to an anti-dumping investigation, the export 
price of such goods before adjustment for fair comparison in accordance with Article 2.4 
of the Anti-Dumping Agreement shall, subject to paragraph 2, be based on the value 
which appears in relevant documents, including the Certificate of Origin for the goods.   
 
2. 
In cases where the investigating authority of a Party determines that the value 
referred to in paragraph 1 is unreliable because of association or a compensatory 
arrangement between the exporter and the importer or a third party, the export price may 
be constructed in accordance with Article 2.3 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement. In such 
instances, the investigating authority may rely on other sources of information, in 
accordance with its practice, to arrive at the export price. 
                                                 
2-2 This relates to the questionnaire referred to in Article 6 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement.  
 
 
8 
 
ARTICLE 2.7.4:  RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE WTO COMMITTEE ON ANTI-DUMPING 
PRACTICES 
 
Each Party may, in all investigations conducted against goods from the other 
Party, take into account the recommendations by the WTO Committee on Anti-Dumping 
Practices.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2.8: SUBSIDIES 
 
 
The Parties reaffirm their commitment to abide by the provisions of the WTO 
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9: SAFEGUARDS 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9.1: IMPOSITION OF A BILATERAL SAFEGUARD MEASURE 
 
 
If as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty2-3 under this 
Agreement, an originating good of the other Party is being imported into the territory of 
a Party in such increased quantities, in absolute terms, and under such conditions that the 
imports of such good from the other Party alone2-4 constitute a substantial cause of 
serious injury or threat of serious injury to domestic industry producing a like or directly 
competitive product such Party may: 
 
(a) 
suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty on the good 
provided for under this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
increase the rate of customs duty on the good to a level not to exceed the 
lesser of  
 
(i) 
The MFN applied rate of customs duty on the good in effect at the 
time the measure is taken; and 
 
                                                 
2-3 A determination that an originating good is being imported as a result of the reduction/ elimination of a 
customs duty provided for in this Agreement shall be made only if such reduction / elimination is a cause 
which contributes significantly to the increase in imports, but need not be equal to or greater than any other 
cause. The passage of a period of time between the commencement / termination of such 
reduction/elimination and the increase in imports shall not by itself preclude the determination referred in 
this footnote.  If the increase in imports is demonstrably unrelated to such reduction / elimination, the 
determination referred in this footnote shall not be made. 
 
2-4 For purposes of certainty, the Parties understand that a Party is not prevented from initiating a bilateral 
safeguard measure investigation in the event of a surge of imports from the territory of non-Parties. For 
further certainty, the Parties understand that bilateral safeguard measures can only be imposed on the other 
Party when the increase in the import of such goods from that other Party alone constitute a substantial 
cause of serious injury or threat of serious injury, to domestic industry producing a like or directly 
competitive product.   
 
 
 
 
9 
 
(ii) 
The MFN applied rate of customs duty on the good in effect on the 
day immediately preceding the date of the start of the period of 
investigation; or 
 
(c) 
in the case of a customs duty applied to a good on a seasonal basis, 
increase the rate of customs duty to a level not to exceed the lesser of the 
MFN applied rate of customs duty that was in effect on the good for the 
corresponding season immediately preceding the date of the start of the 
period of investigation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9.2:  CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON IMPOSITION OF A BILATERAL 
SAFEGUARD MEASURE  
 
The following conditions and limitations shall apply to an investigation or a 
measure described in Article 2.9.1:  
 
(a) 
a Party shall immediately deliver written notice to the other Party upon:  
 
(i) 
initiating an investigatory process relating to serious injury or 
threat thereof and the reasons for it; 
 
(ii) 
making a finding of serious injury or threat thereof caused by 
increased imports; and 
 
(iii) 
taking a decision to apply a safeguard measure; 
 
(b) 
in making the notification referred to in paragraph (a), the Party proposing 
to apply a safeguard measure shall provide the other Party with all 
pertinent information, which shall include evidence of serious injury or 
threat thereof  caused by the increased imports, precise description of the 
good involved and the proposed measure, proposed date of introduction 
and expected duration;  the Party proposing to apply a measure is also 
obliged to provide any additional information which the other Party 
considers pertinent; 
 
(c) 
a Party proposing to apply a measure shall provide adequate opportunity 
for prior consultations with the other Party as far in advance of taking any 
such measure as practicable, with a view to reviewing the information 
arising from the investigation, exchanging views on the measure and 
reaching an agreement on compensation set out in Article 2.9.3.  The 
Parties shall in such consultations, review, inter alia, the information 
provided under paragraph (b), to determine: 
 
(i) 
compliance with  Article 2.9; 
 
(ii) 
whether any proposed measure should be taken; and 
 
(iii) 
the appropriateness of the proposed measure, including 
consideration of alternative measures; 
 
 
10 
 
(d) 
a Party shall apply/take the measure only following an investigation by 
the competent authorities of such Party in accordance with Articles 3 and 
4.2(c) of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards; and to this end, Articles 3 
and 4.2(c) of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards are incorporated into 
and made a part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis; 
 
(e) 
in undertaking the investigation described in paragraph (d), a Party shall 
comply with the requirements of Article 4.2(a) and (b) of the WTO 
Agreement on Safeguards; and to this end, Article 4.2(a) and (b) are 
incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis; 
 
(f) 
the investigation shall be promptly terminated and no measure taken if 
imports of the subject good represent less than 2 per cent of market share 
in terms of domestic sales2-5 or less than 3 per cent of total imports2-6; 
 
(g) 
the investigation shall in all cases be completed within one year following 
its date of initiation; 
 
(h) 
no measure shall be maintained: 
 
(i) 
except to the extent and for such time as may be necessary to 
remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment; or 
 
(ii) 
for a period exceeding two years, except that in exceptional 
circumstances, the period may be extended by up to an additional 
one year, to a total maximum of three years from the date of first 
imposition of the measure if the investigating authorities 
determine in conformity with procedures set out paragraphs (a) 
through (g), that the safeguard measure continues to be necessary 
to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment 
and that there is evidence that the industry is adjusting; 
 
(i) 
no bilateral safeguard measure shall be taken against a particular good 
while a global safeguard measure in respect of that good is in place;  in 
the event that a global safeguard measure is taken in respect of a 
particular good, any existing bilateral safeguard measure which is taken 
against that good shall be terminated; 
 
(j) 
upon the termination of the safeguard measure, the rate of duty shall be 
the rate which would have been in effect but for the action; 
                                                 
2-5 Both Parties recognize that the terms “market share in terms of domestic sales” admits of more than one 
interpretation and agree that there could be different permissible methodologies for making a 
determination of the de minimis based on this parameter. Where the arbitral tribunal finds that the 
interpretation and methodology used for the determination of the domestic market share in a particular 
investigation rests on one of those interpretations and permissible methodologies, it shall find the 
determination to be in conformity with the Agreement. 
 
2-6 The time frame to be used for calculating the applicable percentages shall be the 12 month period prior 
to the filing of the petition. 
 
 
 
11 
 
(k) 
within 5 years after entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall 
meet to review this Article with a view to determining whether there is a 
need to maintain any bilateral safeguard mechanism; and 
 
(l) 
if the Parties do not agree to remove the bilateral safeguard mechanism 
during the review pursuant to paragraph (k), they shall thereafter conduct 
reviews to determine the necessity of a bilateral safeguard mechanism, in 
conjunction with the review of the Agreement pursuant to Article 16.3. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9.3: COMPENSATION 
 
1. 
The Party proposing to apply a measure described in Article 2.9.1 shall provide to 
the other Party mutually agreed adequate means of trade liberalizing compensation in the 
form of concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or equivalent to the 
value of the additional duties expected to result from the measure. If the Parties are 
unable to agree on compensation within 30 days in the consultations under Article 2.9.2, 
the Party against whose originating good the measure is applied may take action having 
trade effects substantially equivalent to the measure applied under this Article. This 
action shall be applied only for the minimum period necessary to achieve the 
substantially equivalent effects. 
 
2. 
Such compensation described in paragraph 1 shall not be provided if the measure 
described in Article 2.9.1 is applied for: 
 
(a) 
up to two years; or 
 
(b) 
up to three years, and the Party imposing the measure described in Article 
2.9.1 provides to the other Party evidence that the industry concerned is 
adjusting during the period up to the end of the second year respectively. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9.4: ADMINISTRATION OF EMERGENCY ACTION PROCEEDINGS  
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure the consistent, impartial and reasonable administration of 
its laws, regulations, decisions and rulings governing all safeguard investigation action 
proceedings.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall entrust determinations of serious injury or threat thereof in 
safeguard investigation proceedings to a competent investigating authority, subject to 
review by judicial or administrative tribunals, to the extent provided by domestic law. 
Negative injury determinations shall not be subject to modification, except by such 
review.    
 
3.  
Each Party shall adopt or maintain equitable, timely, transparent and effective 
procedures for safeguard investigation proceedings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
ARTICLE 2.9.5: GLOBAL SAFEGUARD MEASURES 
 
Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article XIX of GATT 1994 
and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.  This Agreement does not confer any additional 
rights or impose any additional obligations on the Parties with regard to actions taken 
pursuant to Article XIX and the Agreement on Safeguards, except that a Party taking a 
safeguard measure under Article XIX and the Agreement on Safeguards may, to the 
extent consistent with the obligations under the WTO Agreements, exclude imports of an 
originating good from the other Party if such imports are not a substantial cause of 
serious injury or threat thereof. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.10: RESTRICTIONS TO SAFEGUARD BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 
 
Article XII of the GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance-of-
Payments Provisions of the GATT 1994 shall be incorporated into and made a part of 
this Agreement, for measures taken for balance of payments purposes for trade in goods. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.11: MOST-FAVOURED NATION TREATMENT 
 
1.        This Chapter and Annexes thereto as well as any legal instrument agreed upon by 
the Parties pursuant to provisions of this Chapter shall be integral parts of this 
Agreement and shall be binding on the Parties.   
 
2. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, this Chapter or any action taken 
under it shall not affect or nullify the rights and obligations of the Party under existing 
agreements to which it is already a party. 
 
3. 
If a Party concludes a preferential agreement with a non-party, subsequent to the 
signing of this Agreement, it shall, upon request from the other Party, afford adequate 
opportunity to negotiate for the more favourable concessions and benefits granted 
therein. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.12: TARIFF CLASSIFICATION 
 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter and Chapter 3, the basis for tariff classification 
would be the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System Nomenclature. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.13: GENERAL AND SECURITY EXCEPTIONS 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, Articles XX and XXI of the GATT 1994 and its 
interpretative notes are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party to accord the 
benefits of this Chapter to the other Party, or the goods of the other Party where a Party 
adopts or maintains measures in any legislation or regulations which it considers 
 
 
13 
 
necessary for the protection of its essential security interests with respect to a non-Party, 
or goods of a non-Party that would be violated or circumvented if the benefits of this 
Chapter were accorded to such goods. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.14: STATE TRADING ENTERPRISES 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from maintaining 
or establishing a state trading enterprise in accordance with Article XVII of the GATT 
1994. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.15: TEMPORARY ADMISSION 
 
1. 
Each Party shall accept in lieu of its national Customs documents, and as due 
security for the sums referred to in Article 6 of the ATA Carnet Convention, ATA 
carnets valid for its territory and issued and used in accordance with the conditions laid 
down in the ATA Carnet Convention, for temporary admission of: 
 
(a) 
professional equipment necessary for representatives of the press or of 
broadcasting or television organizations for purposes of reporting or in 
order to transmit or record material for specified programs, 
cinematographic equipment2-7 necessary in order to make a specified film 
or films or other professional equipment  necessary for the exercise of the 
calling, trade or profession of a person to perform a specified task;  
 
 
(b) 
goods intended for display or demonstration at an event; and 
 
(c) 
goods intended for use in connection with the display of foreign products 
at an event, including:  
 
(i) 
goods necessary for the purpose of demonstrating foreign 
machinery or apparatus to be displayed,  
 
(ii) 
construction and decoration material, including electrical fittings, 
for the temporary stands of foreign exhibitors,  
 
(iii) 
advertising and demonstration material which is demonstrably 
publicity material for the foreign goods displayed, for example, 
sound recordings, films and lantern slides, as well as apparatus for 
use therewith; and 
 
(iv) 
equipment including interpretation apparatus, sound recording 
apparatus and films of an educational, scientific or cultural 
character intended for use at international meetings, conferences 
or congresses. 
                                                 
2-7 It would not include equipment which is to be used for internal transport or for the industrial 
manufacture or packaging of goods or (except in the case of hand-tools) for the exploitation of natural 
resources, for the construction, repair or maintenance of buildings or for earth moving and like projects. 
 
 
14 
 
2. 
The facilities referred to in paragraph 1 shall be granted provided that: 
 
(a) 
the goods in all respects conform to the description, quantity, quality, 
value and other specifications given in the ATA Carnet duly certified by 
the customs authorities at the country of exportation; 
 
(b) 
the goods are capable of identification on re-exporting; 
 
(c) 
the number or quantity of identical articles is reasonable having regard to 
the purpose of importation; and 
 
(d) 
the goods shall be re-exported within three months from the date of 
importation or such other longer period in accordance with the domestic 
laws and practices of the Parties. 
 
 
