 
 
PROTOCOL TO AMEND THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON 
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION BETWEEN THE ASSOCIATION 
OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia (Cambodia), the 
Republic of Indonesia (Indonesia), the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), 
Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar (Myanmar), the Republic of the Philippines (the 
Philippines),  the  Republic  of  Singapore  (Singapore),  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand 
(Thailand) and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (Viet Nam), Member States of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (collectively, “ASEAN” or “ASEAN Member 
States”, or individually, “ASEAN Member State”) and the Government of the Republic 
of India (India), 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation 
between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of India (the 
Framework Agreement) signed in Bali, Indonesia on 8 October 2003; 
 
REAFFIRMING the commitment of ASEAN and India (collectively, the “Parties”, or 
individually referring to an ASEAN Member State or to India as a “Party”) to gradually 
reduce and eliminate tariffs in accordance with specified schedules; 
 
CONSIDERING the necessity to revise the Framework Agreement to reflect the 
current position in relation to the Early Harvest Programme (EHP) in the Framework 
Agreement and the various timeframes indicated therein; 
 
DESIRING  to  reflect  the  various  amendments  pursuant  to  Article  14  of  the 
Framework Agreement, 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Applied Most Favoured Nation Tariff Rates 
 
Paragraph 2(a) of Article 3 of the Framework Agreement shall be amended by 
replacing the date “1 July 2004” with the date “1 July 2007”. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Periods for Reduction or Elimination of Applied Most Favoured Nation Tariff 
Rates 
 
1.  The periods for the reduction or elimination of applied Most Favoured Nation 
(MFN) tariff rates for Normal Track products set out in paragraphs 5(a)(i) to (iii) of 
Article 3 of the Framework Agreement shall be amended as follows: 
 
“Track 1 (i)  1  January  2010  to  31  December  2013  for  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, and India; 
(ii)  1 January 2010 to 31 December 2018 for the Philippines and India; 
and 
(iii)  1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013 for India and 1 January 2010 
to 31 December 2018 for Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet 
Nam. 
Track 2 
(i)  1  January  2010  to  31  December  2016  for  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, and India; 
(ii)  1 January 2010 to 31 December 2019 for the Philippines and India; 
and 
(iii)  1 January 2010 to 31 December 2016 for India and 1 January 2010 
to 31 December 2021 for Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet 
Nam.” 
 
2.  The revised date of commencement of 1 January 2010 as referred to in 
paragraph 1 may, if necessary, be adjusted to a date to be mutually agreed upon by 
the Parties pursuant to the amended paragraph 1 of Article 8 of the Framework 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Early Harvest Programme 
 
The Parties agree not to pursue the EHP and accordingly, the Framework Agreement 
is amended as follows: 
 
(a)  Paragraph 5 of Article 3 shall be amended by deleting the phrase 
“not covered by the Early Harvest Programme under Article 7 of this 
Agreement”; 
 
(b)  Paragraph 6 of Article 3 shall be amended by deleting the phrase 
“and Article 7 of this Agreement”; and 
 
(c)  Article 7 shall be deleted and the product coverage referred to in 
paragraph 3(a) of that Article shall be treated as being covered by 
the words “all products” in paragraph 5 of Article 3. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Timeframes 
 
1.  Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 8 of the Framework Agreement shall be deleted 
and substituted as follows: 
 
  “(1)  For trade in goods, negotiations on the agreement for tariff reduction 
or elimination and other matters as set out in Article 3 of this Agreement shall 
commence in January 2004 and be concluded by 2009 or such other dates 
as may be mutually agreed upon by the Parties. 
 2(2)  The negotiations on Rules of Origin for trade in goods under Article 3 
shall be concluded by 2009 or such other dates as may be mutually agreed 
upon by the Parties”. 
2.  The first sentence of paragraph 3 of Article 8 of the Framework Agreement 
shall be deleted and substituted as follows: 
“For trade in services and investments, the negotiations on the respective 
agreements which commenced in October 2008 shall be concluded as a 
single undertaking by 2009 or such other date as may be mutually agreed 
upon by the Parties.” 
ARTICLE 5 
Dispute Settlement Mechanism 
 
Paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the Framework Agreement shall be amended as follows: 
 
  “(1)  The Parties shall, by 2009 or such other dates as may be mutually 
agreed upon by the Parties, conclude negotiations for the establishment of 
the dispute settlement procedures and mechanism for the purposes of this 
Agreement.” 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Depositary 
 
For the ASEAN Member States, this Protocol shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof to each 
ASEAN Member State. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  Each Party shall notify all the other Parties in writing upon completion of its 
internal requirements1 necessary for the entry into force of this Protocol. This Protocol 
shall enter into force on 1 January 2010 or the date by which such notifications have 
been made by the Governments of India and at least one (1) ASEAN Member State. 
 
2.  Where a Party is unable to complete its internal requirements for the entry 
into force of this Protocol by 1 January 2010, this Protocol shall enter into force for 
that  Party  on  1  June  2010  or  upon  the  date  by  which  that  Party  notifies  the 
completion of its internal requirements.  
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised by their respective 
Governments, have signed this Protocol. 
                                                 
1  For  greater  certainty,  the  term  “internal  requirements”  may  include  obtaining 
governmental approvals or parliamentary approval in accordance with domestic law. 
 3DONE at Bangkok, Thailand this thirteenth day of August 2009 in two (2) originals in 
the English language. 
 
 
For the Government of Brunei  For the Government of the Republic of 
Darussalam:  India: 
   
   
   
   
   
LIM JOCK SENG  ANAND SHARMA 
Second Minister for Foreign Affairs and  Minister of Commerce and Industry 
Trade   
   
For the Royal Government of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister of 
Commerce 
 
 
For the Government of the Republic of   
Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
For the Government of the Lao People’s   
Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
   
For the Government of Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
 
MUSTAPA MOHAMED  
 4Minister of International Trade and 
Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the Union of   
Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning and 
Economic Development 
 
 
   
 
For the Government of the Republic of 
the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
For the Government of the Republic of   
Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the Kingdom of   
Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
 
PORNTIVA NAKASAI 
Minister of Commerce 
  
 
 5 
For the Government of the Socialist   
Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NGUYEN CAM TU 
Vice Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
 
 
 6