ASEAN-INDIA AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES   ANNEX 1/SC1 
   
INDIA 
 
Schedule of Specific Commitments to the Philippines 
 
 
AI-TISA/SC1/ IND-PHI 
   
1 INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
2 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
companies formed under laws of 
India, or to a branch office or other 
place of business authorized by the 
Reserve Bank of India when such 
acquisition is necessary for or 
incidental to carrying on of the 
permitted activity. A resident of India 
can acquire and hold property. 
       
(4)  Unbound except for measures  (4)  Unbound except for measures 
affecting the entry and temporary  referred to under Market Access and 
stay of Natural Persons who fall in  subject to the following:  
any of the following categories:   
  (i) Requirement of requisite visa and 
(a) Business visitors (BVs)  the conditions attached to entry and 
  temporary stay under such a visa for 
Persons who visit India temporarily  each of the categories specified in 
for the purposes specified in (i) and  the Market Access column including: 
(ii) below:   
  (i) Fulfilment of specific 
(i) For the sale of services or entering  requirements regarding information 
into agreements for such sales for  in support of the application and 
that services supplier (Service Seller)  required documentation. 
and/or   
  (ii) Minimum wage requirements in 
(ii) Employees of a juridical person  respect of foreign nationals may be 
for the purpose of setting up a  prescribed (except for Business 
commercial presence of that juridical  Visitors).  
person in India.   
 
Access is subject to the condition 
that :   
•  Representatives of such services 
suppliers or employees of such 
3 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
juridical persons will not be 
engaged in making direct sales 
to the general public or in 
supplying services themselves. 
•  Will not receive any 
remuneration from a source 
located within India. 
•  Entry for persons in this category 
shall be for a period of not more 
than 180 days. 
 
  (b) Intra-corporate transferees     
 
Specific categories of employees 
listed below who are in the 
employment of a juridical person of 
Philippines for a period not less than 
one year prior to the date of 
application for entry into India and 
are being transferred temporarily to a 
branch or a representative office or a 
juridical person owned or controlled 
by the aforesaid juridical person in 
the context of provision of a service 
in India. 
  (i)  Managers are:     
Persons who direct a branch 
office or one or more 
departments as their head, or 
supervise or control the work of 
other supervisory, professional 
or managerial personnel and 
have the authority to appoint or 
remove the personnel and 
4 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
powers to exercise discretionary 
authority over day-to-day 
operations. 
 
  (ii)  Executives are:     
Persons who are in senior 
positions within a juridical 
person including a branch who 
primarily direct the 
management, have wide 
decision-making powers and are 
either members of the board of 
directors or receive directions 
from the board or the general 
body of shareholders. 
 
  (iii) Specialists are:     
Persons who possess high 
qualifications and knowledge at 
an advanced level relevant to 
the organization's activities or of 
the organization's research, 
equipment, techniques or 
management and may include 
persons who are members of 
accredited professional bodies. 
 
  Entry for persons in the above     
categories shall be for a maximum 
period of five years. 
 
       
   
5 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
6 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
                                                      
1 Excluding broadcasting services and measures affecting such services.  Broadcasting is defined as a form of the uni-directional telecommunications intended for large 
number of users having appropriate receiving facilities and carried out by means of radio or cable network. This may include sound transmission, television transmission or 
other types of transmission. 
7 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
8 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
9 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
   
10 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
12 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
13 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
B. Banking and other financial  (1)  Unbound  (1)  Unbound   
services (excluding insurance)         
  (2)  Unbound  (2)  Unbound 
1.(i)  Acceptance of deposits and         
other repayable funds from the public  (3)  (i) Only through branch operations of  (3)  (i) Foreign banks are required to 
5(a)(v)  a foreign bank licensed and  constitute Local Advisory Boards 
  supervised as a bank in its home  consisting inter alia of professionals 
(ii) Lending of all types, including  country.  and persons having expertise in 
consumer credit, mortgage credit and    areas such as small scale industry 
financing of commercial transactions  (ii) Grant of licence as permissible  and exports.  The Chairman and 
but excluding factoring  under existing laws.  members of the Local Advisory 
Ex. 5(a)(vi)    Board must be resident Indian 
  (iii) The limit of licences per year both  nationals except for the Chief 
(iii) All payment and money  for new entrants and existing banks  Executive Officer who may be a 
transmission services including credit,  will be in accordance with India’s  foreign national.  The appointment of 
charge and debit cards, travellers  commitments under the Uruguay  Chairman and members of the 
cheques and bankers’ drafts  Round, without any special  Board requires Reserve Bank of 
5(a)(viii)  dispensation to Philippines.   India approval. 
     
(iv) Guarantees and commitments  (iv) Banks are allowed to install  (ii) Public sector enterprises can 
5(a)(ix)  ATMs at branches and at other  invest surplus funds in term deposits 
  places identified by them.   only with scheduled commercial 
  Installation of ATM at a place other  banks incorporated in India. 
(v) Trading for own account of:  than in licensed branches is treated 
  as a new place of business and 
(a) money market instruments  requires a licence.  Licences issued 
(b) foreign exchange  for ATMs installed by foreign banks 
(c) transferable securities  will not be included in the ceiling of 
     Ex. 5(a)(x)(A)(B)(E)  twelve licences referred to in item (iii) 
  above. 
(vi) Portfolio management, custodial   
and trust services   
Ex. 5(a)(xiii)   
14 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
    (v) Investments in other financial     
(vii) Clearing services for other banks  services companies by branches of 
for cheques, drafts and other  foreign banks licensed to do banking 
instruments  business in India individually not to 
Ex. 5(a)(xiv)  exceed 10 per cent of owned funds 
  or 30 per cent of the invested 
company’s capital whichever is 
lower. 
 
(vi) Licences for new foreign banks 
may be denied when the maximum 
share of assets in India both on and 
off balance sheet of foreign banks to 
total assets both on and off balance 
sheet of the banking system exceeds 
15 per cent. 
 
 
(vii) Foreign banks are subject to non 
discriminatory resource allocation 
requirements. 
       
(4)  Unbound except as indicated in the  (4)  Unbound except as indicated in the 
horizontal section  horizontal section 
       
 
   
15 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
16 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
   
17 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
   
18 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
   
19 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI INDIA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS TO THE PHILIPPINES 
For the 1st Package of Commitments under ASEAN – India Agreement on Trade in Services 
 
Modes of Supply:    1) Cross-border supply     2) Consumption aboard    3) Commercial presence    4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
20 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI  
 
 
Explanatory Paper on 
Additional Commitments by India 
 
 
Scope 
 
The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic 
telecommunications services. 
 
 
Definitions 
 
Users mean service consumers and service suppliers. 
 
Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that 
 
(a)  are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers; 
and 
 
(b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a 
service. 
 
A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation 
(having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a 
result of : 
 
(a)  control over essential facilities; or 
 
(b)  use of its position in the market. 
 
 
1.  Competitive safeguards 
 
Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing service suppliers from 
engaging in or continuing in anti competitive practices of the following type: 
 
(a)  using information obtained from competitors with anti competitive results; and 
 
(b)  not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical 
information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are 
necessary for them to provide services. 
 
2.  Interconnection 
 
2.1  This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport 
network or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another 
supplier and to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are 
undertaken. 
 
2.2  Interconnection to be ensured 
 
Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any specified feasible point in the 
network as indicated in the licence.  Such interconnection is provided: 
 
(a)  of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for like 
services of non affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
 
21  
(b)  upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the 
majority of users as per licence conditions, subject to mutually agreed charges. 
 
2.3  Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations 
 
The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly 
available.  
 
2.4  Transparency of interconnection arrangements 
 
It will be ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection 
agreements, or a reference interconnection offer. 
 
2.5  Interconnection: dispute settlement 
 
A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either: 
 
(a)  at any time or 
 
(b)  after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known 
 
to a domestic regulatory authority to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions 
and rates for interconnection within reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have 
not been established previously. 
 
3.  Universal service 
 
India retains the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain. Such 
obligations are not regarded as anti-competitive per se, since they would be administered in a 
transparent and non-discriminatory manner. 
 
 
4.  Public availability of licensing criteria 
 
Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available: 
 
(a)  All the licensing criteria and  
 
(b)  the terms and conditions of individual licences. 
 
 
5.  Regulatory Authority 
 
The decisions of and the procedures used by the regulatory authority shall be impartial with respect to 
all market participants. 
 
 
6.  Allocation and use of scarce resources 
 
Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and 
rights of way, will be carried out in an objective and timely manner. 
 
 
 
22 
AI-TISA/SC1/IND-PHI 