 
 
   
 
AGREEMENT  ON  TRADE  IN  GOODS  UNDER  THE 
FRAMEWORK  AGREEMENT  ON  COMPREHENSIVE 
ECONOMIC  COOPERATION  BETWEEN  THE 
ASSOCIATION  OF  SOUTHEAST  ASIAN  NATIONS  AND 
THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia  (Cambodia),  the  Republic  of  Indonesia 
(Indonesia),  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  (Lao 
PDR),  Malaysia,  the  Union  of  Myanmar  (Myanmar),  the 
Republic of the Philippines (the Philippines), the Republic of 
Singapore (Singapore), the Kingdom of Thailand (Thailand) 
and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (Viet Nam), Member 
States  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(collectively,  “ASEAN”  or  “ASEAN  Member  States”,  or 
individually, “ASEAN Member State”) and the Government of 
the Republic of India (India), 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic  Cooperation  between  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of India, signed 
by  the  Heads  of  Government/State  of  ASEAN  Member 
States and India in Bali, Indonesia on 8 October 2003 and 
the  Protocol  to  Amend  the  Framework  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive  Economic  Cooperation  between  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of 
India, signed in Bangkok on 13 August 2009; 
 
RECALLING FURTHER Articles 2 and 4 of the Protocol to 
Amend  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive 
Economic  Cooperation  between  the  Association  of Southeast  Asian  Nations  and  the  Republic  of  India  which 
reflect the commitment of ASEAN and India to establish the 
ASEAN-India Free Trade Area covering trade in goods by 
2013 for Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore 
and  Thailand  and  India;  by  2018  for  the  Philippines  and 
India; and by 2013 for India and by 2018 for Cambodia, Lao 
PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam; 
 
REITERATING  the  importance  of  special  and  differential 
treatment to ensure the increasing participation of the new 
ASEAN  Member  States  in  economic  integration  and 
cooperation activities between ASEAN and India; 
 
REAFFIRMING  the  Parties’  commitment  to  establish  the 
ASEAN-India  Free  Trade  Area  while  allowing  flexibility  to 
Parties to address their sensitive areas as provided in the 
Framework Agreement; 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the term: 
 
(a)  AIFTA means the ASEAN-India Free Trade Area under 
the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive 
Economic  Cooperation  between  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of India; 
 
(b)  applied MFN tariff rates shall include in-quota rates, 
and shall: 
 
(i)  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are 
WTO Members as of 1 July 2007) and India, refer 
to their respective applied rate as of 1 July 2007, 
except for products identified as Special Products 
in the Schedules of Tariff Commitments set out in 
Annex 1; and 
  2 
(ii)  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are 
non-WTO Members as of 1 July 2007), refer to 
the rates as applied to India as of 1 July 2007, 
except for products identified as Special Products 
in the Schedules of Tariff Commitments set out in 
Annex 1; 
 
(c)  ASEAN  means  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  which  comprises  Brunei  Darussalam,  the 
Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the 
Lao  PDR,  Malaysia,  the  Union  of  Myanmar,  the 
Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, 
the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of 
Viet Nam and whose members are referred to in this 
Agreement collectively as the ASEAN Member States 
and individually as an ASEAN Member State; 
 
(d)  Framework  Agreement  means  the  Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation 
between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
and the Republic of India, signed in Bali, Indonesia on 
8 October 2003, as amended; 
 
(e)  GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement, 
including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions; 
 
(f)  goods means materials and/or products; 
 
(g)  originating  good  means  a  good  that  qualifies  as 
originating under Article 7; 
 
(h)  new ASEAN Member States refers to Cambodia, Lao 
PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam; 
 
(i)  Parties  means  ASEAN  Member  States  and  India 
collectively; 
 
  3(j)  Party means an ASEAN Member State or India; 
 
(k)  WTO means the World Trade Organization; and 
 
(l)  WTO  Agreement  means  the  Marrakesh  Agreement 
Establishing the World Trade Organization, done on 15 
April 1994. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Scope 
 
This Agreement shall apply to trade in goods and all other 
matters  relating  thereto  as  envisaged  in  the  Framework 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulations 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of 
the other Parties in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994, 
which shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Tariff Reduction and Elimination 
 
1.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  for  in  this  Agreement, 
each  Party  shall  gradually  liberalise,  where  applicable, 
applied  MFN  tariff  rates  on  originating  goods  of  the  other 
Parties in accordance with its schedule of tariff commitments 
as set out in Annex 1. 
 
2.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  preclude  any  Party 
from unilaterally accelerating the reduction and/or elimination 
of the applied MFN tariff rates on originating goods of the 
other  Parties  as  set  out  in  its  tariff  reduction/elimination 
schedule in Annex 1. 
 
  43.  Except  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  1,  all 
commitments  undertaken  by  each  Party  under  this  Article 
shall be applied to all the other Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Transparency 
 
Article  X  of  GATT  1994  shall  be  incorporated,  mutatis 
mutandis, into and form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Administrative Fees and Formalities 
 
Each Party reaffirms its commitments under Article VIII.1 of 
GATT 1994. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Rules of Origin 
 
The Rules of Origin and Operational Certification Procedures 
applicable to the goods covered under this Agreement are 
set out in Annex 2 and its Appendices. 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  not  institute  or  maintain  any  non-tariff  measure 
on  the  importation  of  goods  from  the  other 
Parties or on the exportation or sale for export of 
goods  destined  for  the  territory  of  the  other 
Parties, except in accordance with its WTO rights 
and  obligations  or  other  provisions  in  this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b)  ensure  the  transparency  of  its  non-tariff 
measures  allowed  under  subparagraph  (a)  and 
their full compliance with its obligations under the 
  5WTO  Agreement  with  a  view  to  minimising 
possible  distortions  to  trade  to  the  maximum 
extent possible. 
 
2.  The Parties reaffirm their rights and obligations under 
the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade in Annex 1A to 
the WTO Agreement and the Agreement on the Application 
of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures in Annex 1A to the 
WTO  Agreement,  including  notification  procedures  on  the 
preparation of relevant regulations to reduce their negative 
effect on trade as well as to protect human, animal or plant 
life or health. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  designate  its  contact  point  for  the 
purpose of responding to queries related to this Article. 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Modification of Concessions 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  not  nullify  or  impair  any  of  the 
concessions made by them under this Agreement, except as 
provided in this Agreement. 
 
2.  Any Party may, by negotiation and agreement with any 
other Party to which it has made a concession, modify or 
withdraw such concession made under this Agreement. In 
such  negotiations  and  agreement,  which  may  include 
provision for compensatory adjustment with respect to other 
goods, the Parties concerned shall maintain a general level 
of  reciprocal  and  mutually  advantageous  concessions  not 
less favourable to trade than that provided in this Agreement 
prior to such agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  Each Party, which is a WTO Member, retains its rights 
and  obligations  under  Article  XIX  of  GATT  1994  and  the 
Agreement  on  Safeguards  in  Annex  1A  to  the  WTO 
  6Agreement (Agreement on Safeguards) and Article 5 of the 
Agreement  on  Agriculture  in  Annex  1A  to  the  WTO 
Agreement  (Agreement  on  Agriculture).  Any  action  taken 
pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on 
Safeguards or Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture shall 
not  be  subject  to  the  Agreement  on  Dispute  Settlement 
Mechanism under the Framework Agreement (ASEAN-India 
DSM Agreement). 
 
2.  A  Party  shall  have  the  right  to  initiate  a  safeguard 
measure under this Article (an AIFTA safeguard measure) on 
a  good  within  the  transition  period  for  that  good.  The 
transition period for a good shall begin from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement and end five (5) years from the 
date  of  completion  of  tariff  reduction/elimination  for  that 
good. 
 
3.  A  Party  shall  be  free  to  take  an  AIFTA  safeguard 
measure if, as an effect of the obligations incurred by that 
Party under this Agreement, a good is being imported from 
the other Parties to which tariff concession was made for that 
good  in  such  increased  quantities,  absolute  or  relative  to 
domestic  production,  and  under  such  conditions  so  as  to  
substantially cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the 
domestic industry of the importing Party that produces like or 
directly competitive goods in its territory. 
 
4.  If an AIFTA safeguard measure is taken, a Party taking 
such a measure may: 
 
(a)  suspend  the  further  reduction  of  any  tariff  rate 
under this Agreement for the good; or 
 
(b)  increase the tariff rate on the good concerned to 
a level not to exceed the lesser of: 
 
(i)  the applied MFN tariff rate on the good in 
effect at the time the action is taken; or 
 
  7(ii)  the applied MFN tariff rate on the good in 
effect on the day immediately preceding the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
5.  An AIFTA safeguard measure may be maintained for 
an initial period of up to three (3) years and may be extended 
for a period not exceeding one (1) year if it is determined 
pursuant to the procedures referred to in paragraph 6 that 
the measure continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy 
serious injury and to facilitate adjustment and that there is 
evidence  that  the  domestic  industry  is  adjusting. 
Notwithstanding  the  duration  of  an  AIFTA  safeguard 
measure on the good, such a measure shall terminate at the 
end of the transition period for that good. 
 
6.  In applying an AIFTA safeguard measure, the Parties 
shall  adopt  and  apply,  mutatis  mutandis,  the  rules  for  the 
application  of  safeguard  measures,  including  provisional 
measures, as provided under the Agreement on Safeguards, 
with the exception of the quantitative restriction measures set 
out in Articles 5 and 7, and also, Articles 9, 13, and 14 of the 
Agreement on Safeguards. 
 
7.  An  AIFTA  safeguard  measure  shall  not  be  applied 
against a good originating in the territory of a Party so long 
as  its  share  of  imports  of  the  good  concerned  in  the 
importing Party does not exceed three (3) per cent of the 
total imports of that good from the other Parties. 
 
8.  In  seeking  compensation  under  Article  8  of  the 
Agreement on Safeguards for an AIFTA safeguard measure, 
the Parties concerned shall seek the good offices of the Joint 
Committee  established  under  Article  17  to  determine  the 
substantially equivalent level of concessions to that existing 
under  this  Agreement  between  the  Party  taking  the 
safeguard measure and the exporting Parties which would 
be affected by such a measure prior to any suspension of 
equivalent concessions. Any proceedings arising from such 
  8good offices shall be completed within 90 days from the date 
on which the AIFTA safeguard measure was applied. 
 
9.  If no agreement on the compensation is reached within 
the  timeframe  specified  in  paragraph  8,  the  Parties 
concerned shall be free to suspend the application of tariff 
concessions  under  this  Agreement,  which  is  substantially 
equivalent to the AIFTA safeguard measure on originating 
goods of the Party applying the AIFTA safeguard measure. 
 
10.  On  a  Party’s  termination  of  an  AIFTA  safeguard 
measure on a good, the tariff rate for that good shall be the 
rate that, according to that Party’s schedule of tariff reduction 
and elimination as set out in Annex 1 would have been in 
effect had the measure not been applied. 
 
11.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, no Party 
may  impose  an  AIFTA  safeguard  measure  on  a  good  to 
which actions are being applied pursuant to Article XIX of 
GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Safeguards or Article 5 of 
the  Agreement  on  Agriculture.  When  a  Party  intends  to 
apply,  pursuant  to  Article  XIX  of  GATT  1994  and  the 
Agreement on Safeguards or Article 5 of the Agreement on 
Agriculture,  an  action  on  a  good  to  which  an  AIFTA 
safeguard measure is being applied, it shall terminate the 
AIFTA  safeguard  measure  prior  to  the  imposition  of  the 
action to be applied pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 
and  the  Agreement  on  Safeguards  or  Article  5  of  the 
Agreement on Agriculture. 
 
12.  All  official  communications  and  documentations 
exchanged among the Parties and with the Joint Committee 
relating to an AIFTA safeguard measure shall be in writing 
and shall be in the English language. 
  9 
ARTICLE 11 
Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a 
Party  from  taking  any  measure  for  balance  of  payments 
purposes.  A  Party  taking  such  measure  shall  do  so  in 
accordance with the conditions established under Article XII 
of  GATT  1994  and  the  Understanding  on  Balance  of 
Payments Provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 12 
General Exceptions 
 
Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article XX 
of  GATT  1994,  which  shall  be  incorporated,  mutatis 
mutandis, into and form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  to  require  any  Party  to  furnish  any  information  the 
disclosure of which it considers contrary to its essential 
security interests; 
 
(b)  to prevent any Party from taking any action which it 
considers necessary for the protection of its essential 
security interests, including: 
 
(i)  action  relating  to  fissionable  materials  or  the 
materials from which they are derived; 
 
(ii)  action relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition 
and  implements  of  war  and  to  such  traffic  on 
other  goods  and  materials  as  is  carried  on 
directly or indirectly for the purpose of supplying 
  10a military establishment; 
 
(iii)  action  taken  so  as  to  protect  critical 
communications  infrastructure  from  deliberate 
attempts  intended  to  disable  or  degrade  such 
infrastructure; 
 
(iv)  action taken in time of war or other emergency in 
international relations; or 
 
(c)  to  prevent  any  Party  from  taking  any  action  in 
pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations 
Charter for the maintenance of international peace and 
security. 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Customs Procedures 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  apply  its  customs 
procedures  in  a  predictable,  consistent  and  transparent 
manner. 
 
2.  Recognising the importance of improving transparency 
in  the  area  of  customs  procedures,  each  Party,  at  the 
request of an interested person, shall endeavour to provide, 
as  expeditiously  and  accurately  as  possible,  information 
relating to its customs procedures to the interested person 
concerned. Each Party shall endeavour to supply not only 
the  information  specifically  requested  but  also  any  other 
pertinent information which it considers the interested person 
should be made aware of. 
 
3.  For prompt customs clearance of goods traded among 
the  Parties,  each  Party,  recognising  the  significant  role  of 
customs  authorities  and  the  importance  of  customs 
procedures in promoting trade facilitation, shall endeavour to: 
 
(a)  simplify its customs procedures; and 
 
  11(b)  harmonise its customs procedures, to the extent 
possible,  with  relevant  international  standards 
and recommended practices such as those made 
under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Customs 
Organization. 
 
ARTICLE 15 
Regional and Local Governments 
 
In  fulfilling  its  obligations  and  commitments  under  this 
Agreement,  each  Party  shall,  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  XXIV.12  of  GATT  1994  and  the 
Understanding on the Interpretation of Article XXIV of GATT 
1994, take such reasonable measures as may be available 
to  it  to  ensure  observance  by  state,  regional  and  local 
governments and authorities within its territories. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
1.  Each Party reaffirms its rights and obligations vis-à-vis 
another  Party  under  the  WTO  Agreement  and  other 
agreements to which these Parties are party. A Party, which 
is not a party to the WTO Agreement, shall abide by the 
provisions  of  the  said  Agreement  in  accordance  with  its 
accession commitments to the WTO. 
 
2.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  be  construed  to 
derogate from any right or obligation of a Party under the 
WTO  Agreement  and  other  agreements  to  which  these 
Parties are party. 
 
3.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  this 
Agreement and any other agreement to which two or more 
Parties are party, such Parties shall immediately consult with 
a view to finding a mutually satisfactory solution. 
 
4.  This  Agreement  shall  not  apply  to  any  agreement 
among ASEAN Member States or to any agreement between 
  12any  ASEAN  Member  State  and  India  unless  otherwise 
agreed by the parties to that agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 17 
Joint Committee 
 
1.  A  Joint  Committee  shall  be  established  under  this 
Agreement. 
 
2.  The functions of the Joint Committee shall be to: 
 
(a)  review the implementation and operation of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  submit  a  report  to  the  Parties  on  the 
implementation and operation of this Agreement; 
 
(c)  consider  and  recommend  to  the  Parties  any 
amendments to this Agreement; 
 
(d)  supervise  and  coordinate  the  work  of  all  Sub-
Committees  established  under  this  Agreement; 
and 
 
(e)  carry out other functions as may be agreed by 
the Parties. 
 
3.  The Joint Committee: 
 
(a)   shall  be  composed  of  representatives  of  the 
Parties; and 
 
(b)  may establish Sub-Committees and delegate its 
responsibilities thereto. 
 
4.  The Joint Committee shall meet at such venues and 
times as may be mutually agreed by the Parties. 
  13 
ARTICLE 18 
Dispute Settlement 
 
Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  any  dispute 
concerning the interpretation, implementation or application 
of this Agreement shall be resolved through the procedures 
and  mechanisms  as  set  out  in  the  ASEAN-India  DSM 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Review 
 
The Joint Committee shall meet within one (1) year from the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement and then biennially 
or otherwise as appropriate to review this Agreement for the 
purpose  of  considering  additional  measures  to  further 
enhance  the  AIFTA  as  well  as  develop  disciplines  and 
negotiate agreements on relevant matters as may be agreed. 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Annexes and Future Legal Instruments 
 
1.  The  Annexes  and  Appendices  shall  form  an  integral 
part of this Agreement. 
 
2.  The Parties may adopt legal instruments in the future 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, including those 
proposed  to  them  by  the  Joint  Committee.  Upon  their 
respective entry into force, such instruments shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 21 
Amendments 
 
1.  This Agreement may be modified through amendments 
mutually  agreed  upon  in  writing  by  the  Parties.  Any 
amendment  shall  enter  into  force  after  all  Parties  have 
notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of 
  14their  internal  procedures  for  the  entry  into  force  of  such 
amendment. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, amendments relating to: 
 
(a)  Annex  1,  provided  that  the  amendments  are 
made in accordance with the amendment of the 
Harmonized System and include no change on 
tariff rates applied to the originating goods of the 
other Parties in accordance with Annex 1; and 
 
(b)  Annex 2, 
 
may be made by mutual agreement in writing by all Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 22 
Depositary 
 
For  the  ASEAN  Member  States,  this  Agreement  shall  be 
deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall 
promptly  furnish  a  certified  copy  thereof  to  each  ASEAN 
Member State. 
 
ARTICLE 23 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  Each Party shall notify all the other Parties in writing 
upon completion of its internal requirements1 necessary for 
the entry into force of this Agreement. This Agreement shall 
enter into force on 1 January 2010 or the date by which such 
notifications have been made by the Governments of India 
and at least one (1) ASEAN Member State. 
 
2.  Where  a  Party  is  unable  to  complete  its  internal 
requirements for the entry into force of this Agreement by 1 
January 2010, this Agreement shall enter into force for that 
Party on 1 June 2010 or upon the date by which that Party 
                                                 
1    For  greater  certainty,  the  term  “internal  requirements”  may  include  obtaining 
governmental approval or parliamentary approval in accordance with domestic law. 
  15notifies the completion of its internal requirements, whichever 
is  earlier.  In  exceptional  circumstances  where  a  Party  is 
unable to complete its internal requirements for the entry into 
force of this Agreement by 1 June 2010, this Agreement shall 
enter into force for that Party on a mutually agreed date after 
that Party has informed all Parties of the completion of its 
internal requirements. 
 
3.  In relation to Parties making the notification referred to 
in paragraph 2, those Parties shall be bound by the same 
terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any further 
commitments that may have been undertaken by the other 
Parties under this Agreement by the time of such notification, 
as  if  it  had  notified  all  the  other  Parties  in  writing  of  the 
completion  of  its  internal  requirements  before  the  date  of 
entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 24 
Termination 
 
This  Agreement  shall  remain  in  force  until  either  India  or 
ASEAN Member States collectively give written notice to the 
other  of  their  intention  to  terminate  it,  in  which  case  this 
Agreement shall terminate 12 months after the date of the 
notice of termination. 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  being  duly 
authorised  by  their  respective  Governments,  have  signed 
this Agreement. 
  16DONE  at  Bangkok,  Thailand  this  thirteenth  day  of  August 
2009 and at Ha Noi, Viet Nam on the                            day of  
                  2009, in two (2) originals in the English language. 
 
 
For the Government of  For the Government of the 
Brunei Darussalam:  Republic of India: 
   
   
   
   
   
LIM JOCK SENG  ANAND SHARMA 
Second Minister for Foreign  Minister of Commerce and 
Affairs and Trade  Industry 
 
   
For the Royal Government of 
Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister 
of Commerce 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
 
  17 
For the Government of the   
Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic: 
 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and 
Commerce 
 
   
For the Government of 
Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
 
MUSTAPA MOHAMED  
Minister of International 
Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
 
   
  18 
For the Government of the 
Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and 
Industry 
 
   
For the Government of the 
Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and 
Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
 
PORNTIVA NAKASAI 
Minister of Commerce 
  
 
  19 
For the Government of the   
Socialist Republic of Viet 
Nam: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and 
Trade 
 
 
 
 
  20 
 
Annex 1 
 
Schedules of Tariff Commitments 
 
Explanatory Notes 
 
1.  The  tariff  lines  subject  to  tariff  reduction  and/or 
elimination under this Annex are categorised as follows: 
 
(a)  Normal Track 
 
(i)  Applied  MFN  tariff  rates  for  tariff  lines 
placed in the Normal Track will be reduced 
and subsequently eliminated in accordance 
with  the  following  tariff  reduction  and 
elimination schedule: 
 
•  Normal Track 1: 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013 
for  Brunei  Darussalam,  Indonesia, 
Malaysia,  Singapore  and  Thailand, 
and India 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2018 
for the Philippines and India 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013 
for  India  and  1  January  2010  to  31 
December  2018  for  Cambodia,  Lao 
PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam 
 
•  Normal Track 2: 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2016 
for  Brunei  Darussalam,  Indonesia, 
Malaysia,  Singapore  and  Thailand, 
and India  
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2019 
for the Philippines and India 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2016 
for  India  and  1  January  2010  to  31 
December  2021  for  Cambodia,  Lao 
PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam 
 
(ii)  Where the applied MFN tariff rates are at 0 
per cent, they shall remain at 0 per cent. 
Where  they  have  been  reduced  to  0  per 
cent, they shall remain at 0 per cent. No 
Party  shall  be  permitted  to  increase  the 
tariff  rates  for  any  tariff  line,  except  as 
otherwise provided in this Agreement. 
 
(b)  Sensitive Track 
 
(i)  Applied MFN tariff rates above five (5) per 
cent for tariff lines in the Sensitive Track will 
be  reduced  to  five  (5)  per  cent  in 
accordance  with  the  following  tariff 
reduction schedules: 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2016 for 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Indonesia,  Malaysia, 
Singapore and Thailand, and India 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2019 for 
the Philippines and India 
 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2016 for 
India and 1 January 2010 to 31 December 
2021  for  Cambodia,  Lao  PDR  Myanmar 
and Viet Nam 
 
(ii)  Applied MFN tariff rates of five (5) per cent 
can be maintained for up to 50 tariff lines. 
  22For the remaining tariff lines, applied MFN 
tariff rates are reduced to 4.5 per cent upon 
entry  into  force  of  the  Agreement  for 
ASEAN 62 and five (5) years from entry into 
force of the Agreement for Cambodia, Lao 
PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam. The AIFTA 
preferential  tariff  rate  for  these  tariff  lines 
are further reduced to four (4) per cent in 
accordance  with  the  end-date  set  in 
subparagraph (i). 
 
(iii)  Applied MFN tariff rates on four (4) per cent 
of  the  tariff  lines  placed  in  the  Sensitive 
Track, as will be identified by each Party on 
its own accord and exchanged with other 
Parties, will be eliminated by: 
 
31 December 2019 for Brunei Darussalam, 
Indonesia,  Malaysia,  Singapore3  and 
Thailand, and India 
 
31 December 2022 for the Philippines and 
India 
 
31  December  2024  for  Cambodia,  Lao 
PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam 
 
(c)  Special Products 
 
(i)  Special Products refer to India’s crude and 
refined  palm  oil  (CPO  and  RPO, 
respectively), coffee, black tea and pepper. 
 
(ii)  Applied  MFN  tariff  rates  for  the  Special 
Products  will  be  reduced  in  accordance 
with the following tariff reduction schedules: 
 
                                                 
2 Special arrangements for Thailand apply 
3 Modality for Sensitive Track does not apply to Singapore 
  23 
 
 
(iii)  Any  better  offers  made  by  India  to  other 
competing  oils/fats  shall  also  be  duly 
offered to palm products. 
 
(iv)  If the applied MFN tariff rate for CPO and 
RPO  is  lower  than  the  preferential  tariff 
under  the  AIFTA,  the  lower  applied  rate 
shall prevail. 
 
(d)  Highly Sensitive Lists4 
 
Tariff  lines  placed  by  the  Parties  in  the  Highly 
Sensitive  List  are  classified  into  three  (3) 
categories, i.e.: 
 
(i)  Category 1: reduction of applied MFN tariff 
rates to 50 per cent; 
 
(ii)  Category 2: reduction of applied MFN tariff 
rates by 50 per cent; and 
 
(iii)  Category 3: reduction of applied MFN tariff 
rates by 25 per cent, 
 
and such tariff reduction shall be achieved by 31 
December  2019  for  Indonesia,  Malaysia  and 
Thailand, 31 December 2022 for the Philippines, 
                                                 
4 Modality for Highly Sensitive List does not apply for Brunei Darussalam, Lao PDR, 
Myanmar  and Singapore 
  24and 31 December 2024 for Cambodia and Viet 
Nam. 
 
(e)  Exclusion List 
 
Exclusion Lists shall be subject to an annual tariff 
review with a view to improving market access. 
 
2.  No applied tariff among the Parties shall exceed the 
rates scheduled in this Agreement. However, if the applied 
MFN tariff rate is lower than the scheduled rate, it shall be 
applied to all Parties. 
 
3.  For  tariff  lines  subject  to  specific  tariff  rates,  tariff 
reduction  and/or  elimination  are  in  accordance  with  the 
modality and timeframes of the category within which such 
tariff lines are placed. The proportion of tariff reduction for 
these  tariff  lines  is  equal  to  the  average  margin  of  tariff 
reduction of the tariff lines with ad-valorem tariff rates that 
are subject to tariff reduction in the same year. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding the Schedules in this Annex, nothing 
in this Agreement shall prevent any Party from unilaterally 
accelerating  the  tariff  reduction  or  unilaterally  transferring 
any of the products or tariff lines in the Highly Sensitive or 
Special Product Lists to the Sensitive Track or Normal Track, 
or tariff lines in the Sensitive Track to the Normal Track. 
 
5.  Parties shall enjoy the tariff concessions made by the 
other  Parties  for  tariff  lines  as  specified  in  and  applied 
pursuant to the relevant tariff reduction/elimination schedule 
in this Annex together with the undertakings and conditions 
set  out  therein  as  long  as  that  Party  adheres  to  its  own 
commitments for tariff reduction/elimination for that tariff line. 
 
6.  The tariff rates specified in the Schedules in this Annex 
set out only the level of the applicable  AIFTA  preferential 
tariff  rates  to  be  applied  by  each  Party  for  the  tariff  lines 
concerned in the specified year of implementation and do not 
  25prevent  any  Party  from  unilaterally  accelerating  its  tariff 
reduction or elimination at any time. 
 
7.  For a Party for which this Agreement enters into force 
at a date later than 1 January 2010, the initial reduction or 
elimination of customs duties shall be implemented at the 
level specified in that Party’s schedule of tariff commitment 
for the year in which the Agreement enters into force for that 
Party. 
  26Schedule of Tariff Commitments  
 
LIST A 
 
Brunei Darussalam 
 
Cambodia 
 
India 
 
Indonesia 
 
Lao PDR 
 
Malaysia 
 
Myanmar 
 
Singapore 
 
Thailand 
 
Viet Nam 
 
 
LIST B 
 
India 
 
The Philippines
  27 
Annex 2 
 
 
RULES OF ORIGIN FOR THE  
ASEAN-INDIA FREE TRADE AREA (AIFTA) 
 
In  determining  the  origin  of  products  eligible  for  the 
preferential tariff treatment under ASEAN-India Free Trade 
Area pursuant to Article 4 of this Agreement, the following 
Rules shall be applied: 
 
RULE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term: 
 
(a)  CIF  means  the  value  of  the  good  imported,  and 
includes the cost of freight and insurance up to the port 
or place of entry into the country of importation; 
 
(b)  FOB  means  the  free-on-board  value  as  defined  in 
paragraph 1 of Appendix A; 
 
(c)  material  means  raw  materials,  ingredients,  parts, 
components,  subassembly  and/or  goods  that  are 
physically  incorporated  into  another  good  or  are 
subject to a process in the production of another good; 
 
(d)  originating products means products that qualify as 
originating in accordance with the provisions of Rule 2; 
 
(e)  production  means  methods  of  obtaining  goods 
including  growing,  mining,  harvesting,  raising, 
breeding,  extracting,  gathering,  collecting,  capturing, 
fishing,  trapping,  hunting,  manufacturing,  producing, 
processing or assembling a good; 
 
(f)  Product Specific Rules are rules that specify that the 
materials  have  undergone  a  change  in  tariff  
classification or a specific manufacturing or processing 
operation,  or  satisfy  an  ad  valorem  criterion  or  a 
combination of any of these criteria; 
 
(g)  product  means  products  which  are  wholly 
obtained/produced or being manufactured, even if it is 
intended  for  later  use  in  another  manufacturing 
operation; 
 
(h)  identical  and  interchangeable  materials  means 
materials  being  of  the  same  kind  possessing  similar 
technical and physical characteristics, and which once 
they are incorporated into the finished product cannot 
be distinguished from one another for origin purposes. 
 
RULE 2 
Origin Criteria 
 
For the purposes of this Annex, products imported by a Party 
which are consigned directly within the meaning of Rule 8 
shall be deemed to be originating and eligible for preferential 
tariff  treatment  if  they  conform  to  the  origin  requirements 
under any one of the following: 
 
(a)  Products which are wholly obtained or produced in the 
exporting Party as set out and defined in Rule 3; or 
 
(b)  Products  not  wholly  produced  or  obtained  in  the 
exporting  Party  provided  that  the  said  products  are 
eligible under Rule 4 or 5 or 6. 
 
RULE 3 
Wholly Produced or Obtained Products 
 
Within  the  meaning  of  Rule  2(a),  the  following  shall  be 
considered as wholly produced or obtained in a Party: 
 
29   
(a)  plant1 and plant products grown and harvested in the 
Party; 
 
(b)  live animals2 born and raised in the Party; 
 
(c)  products3  obtained  from  live  animals  referred  to  in 
paragraph (b); 
 
(d)  products  obtained  from  hunting,  trapping,  fishing, 
aquaculture,  gathering  or  capturing  conducted  in  the 
Party; 
 
(e)  minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not 
included in paragraphs (a) to (d), extracted or taken 
from the Party’s soil, waters, seabed or beneath the 
seabed; 
 
(f)  products taken from the waters, seabed or beneath the 
seabed  outside  the  territorial  waters  of  the  Party, 
provided that that Party has the rights to exploit such 
waters, seabed and beneath the seabed in accordance 
with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea, 1982; 
 
(g)  products  of  sea-fishing  and  other  marine  products 
taken from the high seas by vessels registered with the 
Party and entitled to fly the flag of that Party; 
 
(h)  products  processed  and/or  made  on  board  factory 
ships registered with the Party and entitled to fly the 
flag of that Party, exclusively from products referred to 
in paragraph (g); 
 
                                                 
1  Plant  here  refers  to  all  plant  life,  including  forestry  products,  fruit,  flowers, 
vegetables, trees, seaweed, fungi and live plants. 
2  Animals referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) covers all animal life, including 
mammals, birds, fish, crustaceans, molluscs, reptiles, and living organisms. 
3 Products refer to those obtained from live animals without further processing, 
including milk, eggs, natural honey, hair, wool, semen and dung. 
 
30   
(i)  articles  collected  in  the  Party  which  can  no  longer 
perform their original purpose nor are capable of being 
restored  or  repaired  and  are  fit  only  for  disposal  or 
recovery  of  parts  of  raw  materials,  or  for  recycling 
purposes4; and 
 
(j)  products obtained or produced in the Party solely from 
products referred to in paragraphs (a) to (i). 
 
RULE 4 
Not Wholly Produced or Obtained Products 
 
(a)  For  the  purposes  of  Rule  2(b),  a  product  shall  be 
deemed to be originating if: 
 
(i)  the AIFTA content is not less than 35 per cent of 
the FOB value; and 
 
(ii)  the non-originating materials have undergone at 
least a change in tariff sub-heading (CTSH) level 
of the Harmonized System, 
 
  provided that the final process of the manufacture is 
performed within the territory of the exporting Party. 
                                                 
4 This would cover all scrap and waste including scrap and waste resulting from 
manufacturing or processing operations or consumption in the same country, scrap 
machinery, discarded packaging and all products that can no longer perform the 
purpose for which they were produced and are fit only for disposal for the recovery of 
raw materials. Such manufacturing or processing operations shall include all types of 
processing, not only industrial or chemical but also mining, agriculture, construction, 
refining, incineration and sewage treatment operations. 
 
31   
 
(b)  For the purposes of this Rule, the formula for the 35 
per cent AIFTA content is calculated respectively as 
follows5: 
 
  (i)  Direct Method 
AIFTA    Direct    Direct    Other     
 
Material  +  Labour  +  Overhead  + Cost  +  Profit 
 
Cost  Cost  Cost 
x 100 % ≥ 35% 
FOB Price 
 
  (ii)  Indirect Method 
 
Value of Imported    Value of Undetermined 
 
Non-AIFTA Materials,  +  Origin Materials, Parts 
 
Parts or Produce  or Produce 
x 100 % ≤ 65% 
FOB Price 
 
(c)  The value of the non-originating materials shall be: 
 
(i)  the CIF value at the time of importation of the 
materials, parts or produce; or 
 
(ii)  the  earliest  ascertained  price  paid  for  the 
materials,  parts  or  produce  of  undetermined 
origin  in  the  territory  of  the  Party  where  the 
working or processing takes place. 
 
(d)  The method of calculating the AIFTA content is as set 
out in Appendix A. 
                                                 
5  The Parties shall be given the flexibility to adopt the method of calculating the 
AIFTA Content, whether it is the direct or indirect method. In order to promote 
transparency, consistency and certainty, each Party shall adhere to one method. Any 
change in the method of calculation shall be notified to all the other Parties at least 
six (6) months prior to the adoption of the new method. It is understood that any 
verification of the AIFTA content by the importing Party shall be done on the basis of 
the method used by the exporting Party. 
32   
 
RULE 5 
Cumulative Rule of Origin 
 
Unless otherwise provided for, products which comply with 
origin  requirements  provided  for  in  Rule  2  and  which  are 
used in a Party as materials for a product which is eligible for 
preferential  treatment  under  the  Agreement  shall  be 
considered  as  products  originating  in  that  Party  where 
working or processing of the product has taken place. 
 
RULE 6 
Product Specific Rules 
 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Rule  4,  products  which 
satisfy  the  Product  Specific  Rules  shall  be  considered  as 
originating from that Party where working or processing of 
the  product  has  taken  place.  The  list  of  Product  Specific 
Rules shall be appended as Appendix B. 
 
RULE 7 
Minimal Operations and Processes 
 
(a)  Notwithstanding any provisions in this Annex, a product 
shall  not  be  considered  originating  in  a  Party  if  the 
following  operations  are  undertaken  exclusively  by 
itself or in combination in the territory of that Party: 
 
(i)  operations to ensure the preservation of products 
in  good  condition  during  transport  and  storage 
(such  as  drying,  freezing,  keeping  in  brine, 
ventilation, spreading out, chilling, placing in salt, 
sulphur  dioxide  or  other  aqueous  solutions, 
removal of damaged parts, and like operations); 
 
(ii)  simple operations consisting of removal of dust, 
sifting or screening, sorting, classifying, matching 
(including  the  making-up  of  sets  of  articles), 
washing, painting, cutting; 
33   
 
(iii)  changes  of  packing  and  breaking  up  and 
assembly of consignments; 
 
(iv)  simple cutting, slicing and repacking or placing in 
bottles,  flasks,  bags,  boxes,  fixing  on  cards  or 
boards, and all other simple packing operations; 
 
(v)  affixing  of  marks,  labels  or  other  like 
distinguishing  signs  on  products  or  their 
packaging; 
 
(vi)  simple  mixing  of  products  whether  or  not  of 
different kinds, where one or more components 
of  the  mixture  do  not  meet  the  conditions  laid 
down  in  this  Annex  to  enable  them  to  be 
considered as originating products; 
 
(vii)  simple assembly of parts of products to constitute 
a complete product; 
 
(viii)  disassembly; 
 
(ix)  slaughter  which  means  the  mere  killing  of 
animals; and 
 
(x)  mere  dilution  with  water  or  another  substance 
that does not materially alter the characteristics 
of the products. 
 
(b)  For textiles and textile products listed in Appendix C, 
an  article  or  material  shall  not  be  considered  to  be 
originating  in  a  Party  by  virtue  of  merely  having 
undergone any of the following: 
 
(i)  simple combining operations, labelling, pressing, 
cleaning or dry cleaning or packaging operations, 
or any combination thereof; 
 
34   
(ii)  cutting to length or width and hemming, stitching 
or  overlocking  fabrics  which  are  readily 
identifiable  as  being  intended  for  a  particular 
commercial use; 
 
(iii)  trimming  and/or  joining  together  by  sewing, 
looping,  linking,  attaching  of  accessory  articles 
such as straps, bands, beads, cords, rings and 
eyelets; 
 
(iv)  one or more finishing operations on yarns, fabrics 
or  other  textile  articles,  such  as  bleaching, 
waterproofing,  decating,  shrinking,  mercerizing, 
or similar operations; or 
 
(v)  dyeing or printing of fabrics or yarns. 
 
RULE 8 
Direct Consignment 
 
The following shall be considered as consigned directly from 
the exporting Party to the importing Party: 
 
(a)  If  the  products  are  transported  passing  through  the 
territory of any other AIFTA Parties; 
 
(b)  If the products are transported without passing through 
the territory of any non-AIFTA Parties; 
 
(c)  The products whose transport involves transit through 
one or more intermediate non-Parties with or without 
transhipment or temporary storage in such non-Parties 
provided that: 
 
(i)  the  transit  entry  is  justified  for  geographical 
reason or by consideration related exclusively to 
transport requirements; 
 
35   
(ii)  the  products  have  not  entered  into  trade  or 
consumption there; and 
 
(iii)  the products have not undergone any operation 
there other than unloading and reloading or any 
operation  required  to  keep  them  in  good 
condition. 
 
RULE 9 
Treatment of Packing 
 
(a)  Packages and packing materials for retail sale, when 
classified together with the packaged product, shall not 
be taken into account in considering whether all non-
originating  materials  used  in  the  manufacture  of  a 
product fulfil the criterion corresponding to a change of 
tariff classification of the said product. 
 
(b)  Where  a  product  is  subject  to  an  ad  valorem 
percentage  criterion,  the  value  of  the  packages  and 
packing  materials  for  retail  sale  shall  be  taken  into 
account in its origin assessment, in case the packing is 
considered as forming a whole with products. 
 
(c)  The containers and packing materials exclusively used 
for the transport of a product shall not be taken into 
account for determining the origin of any good. 
36   
 
RULE 10 
Accessories, Spare Parts, Tools and Instructional or 
Other Information Material 
 
The origin of accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional 
or other information materials presented with the products 
shall not be taken into account in determining the origin of 
the products, provided that such accessories, spare parts, 
tools and instructional or other information materials are: 
 
(a)  in  accordance  with  standard  trade  practices  in  the 
domestic market of the exporting Party; and 
 
(b)  classified with the products at the time of assessment 
of customs duties by the importing Party. 
 
However, if the products are subject to a qualifying AIFTA 
content requirement, the value of such accessories, spare 
parts  tools  and  instructional  or  other  information  material 
shall be taken into account as originating or non-originating 
materials, as the case may be, in calculating the qualifying 
AIFTA content. 
 
RULE 11 
Indirect Materials 
 
In order to determine whether a product originates in a Party, 
any  indirect  material  such  as  power  and  fuel,  plant  and 
equipment,  or  machines  and  tools  used  to  obtain  such 
products  shall  be  treated  as  originating  whether  such 
material originates in non-Parties or not, and its value shall 
be  the  cost  registered  in  the  accounting  records  of  the 
producer of the export goods. 
37   
 
RULE 12 
Identical and Interchangeable Materials 
 
For the purposes of establishing if a product is originating 
when it is manufactured utilising both originating and non-
originating  materials,  mixed  or  physically  combined,  the 
origin  of  such  materials  can  be  determined  by  generally 
accepted  accounting  principles  of  stock  control 
applicable/inventory management practised in the exporting 
Party. 
RULE 13 
Certificate of Origin 
 
A  claim  that  a  product  shall  be  accepted  as  eligible  for 
preferential  tariff  treatment  shall  be  supported  by  a 
Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  a  government  authority 
designated by the exporting Party and notified to the other 
Parties  in  accordance  with  the  Operational  Certification 
Procedures as set out in Appendix D. 
 
RULE 14 
Review and Modification 
 
This  Annex  and  the  Operational  Certification  Procedures 
may  be  reviewed  and  modified,  as  and  when  necessary, 
upon request of a Party and as may be agreed upon by the 
Joint Committee. 
 
 
38   
APPENDIX A 
 
 
METHOD OF CALCULATION FOR THE AIFTA CONTENT 
 
1.  FOB price shall be calculated as follows: 
 
(a)  FOB Price = Ex-Factory Price + Other Costs 
 
(b)  Other Costs in the calculation of the FOB price 
shall  refer  to  the  costs  incurred  in  placing  the 
products in the ship for export, including but not 
limited to, domestic transport costs, storage and 
warehousing,  port  handling,  brokerage  fees, 
service charges, etc. 
 
2.  Formula for ex-factory price:  
 
(a)  Ex-Factory Price = Production Cost + Profit 
 
(b)  Formula for production cost, 
 
(i)  Production Cost = Cost of Raw Materials 
+ Labour Cost + Overhead Cost 
 
(ii)  Raw Materials shall consist of: 
 
•  Cost of raw materials 
•  Freight and insurance 
 
(iii)  Labour Cost shall include: 
 
•  Wages 
•  Remuneration 
•  Other employee benefits associated with 
the manufacturing process 
 
(iv)  Overhead  Costs,  (non-exhaustive  list) 
shall include, but not limited to: 
39   
 
•  real property items associated with the 
production  process  (insurance,  factory 
rent  and  leasing,  depreciation  on 
buildings,  repair  and  maintenance, 
taxes, interests on mortgage) 
 
•  leasing  of  and  interest  payments  for 
plant and equipment 
 
•  factory security 
 
•  insurance  (plant,  equipment  and 
materials used in the manufacture of the 
goods) 
 
•  utilities  (energy,  electricity,  water  and 
other utilities directly attributable to the 
production of the good) 
 
•  research,  development,  design  and 
engineering 
 
•  dies,  moulds,  tooling  and  the 
depreciation, maintenance and repair of 
plant and equipment 
 
•  royalties or licenses (in connection with 
patented machines or processes used in 
the manufacture of the good or the right 
to manufacture the good) 
 
•  inspection and testing of materials and 
the goods 
 
•  storage and handling in the factory 
 
•  disposal of recyclable wastes 
40   
 
•  cost elements in computing the value of 
raw  materials,  i.e.  port  and  clearance 
charges  and  import  duties  paid  for 
dutiable component 
41   
APPENDIX B 
 
PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES
 
 
42  