 
 
 
AGREEMENT  ON  INVESTMENT  UNDER  THE 
FRAMEWORK  AGREEMENT  ON  COMPREHENSIVE 
ECONOMIC  COOPERATION  BETWEEN  THE 
ASSOCIATION  OF  SOUTHEAST  ASIAN  NATIONS  AND 
THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia  (Cambodia),  the  Republic  of  Indonesia 
(Indonesia),  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  (Lao 
PDR),  Malaysia,  the  Republic  of  the  Union  of  Myanmar 
(Myanmar), the Republic of the Philippines (Philippines), the 
Republic of Singapore (Singapore), the Kingdom of Thailand 
(Thailand) and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (Viet Nam), 
collectively,  the  Member  States  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations,  and  the  Government  of  the 
Republic of India; 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic Cooperation between the Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  and  the  Republic  of  India  (Framework 
Agreement) signed in Bali on 8 October 2003; 
 
RECALLING further Article 2 of the Framework Agreement 
reflecting  their  commitment  to  establish  an  ASEAN-India 
Regional Trade and Investment Area (RTIA) including a Free 
Trade Area in goods, services and investment; 
 
RECOGNISING  the  objectives  of  promoting  investment, 
creating  a  liberal,  facilitative,  transparent  and  competitive 
investment  regime,  progressively  liberalising  investment; 
strengthening  cooperation  in  investment,  facilitating investment, improving transparency of investment rules and 
regulations; and providing for protection of investment;    
 
REAFFIRMING their commitment to establish a liberal and 
competitive investment regime that facilitates and promotes 
investment within the ASEAN-India RTIA; 
 
CONSIDERING the different levels of development and the 
need  to  provide  flexibility  and  special  and  differential 
treatment to the newer ASEAN Member States; 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Scope 
 
1.  This  Agreement  shall  apply  to  measures  adopted  or 
maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of any other Party; and 
 
(b)  investments  of  investors  of  another  Party  in  its 
territory, in existence as of the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement or established, acquired 
or  expanded  thereafter,  and  which,  where 
applicable,  has  been  admitted1  by  that  Party, 
subject  to  its  relevant  laws,  regulations  and 
policies. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  government procurement;  
                                                 
1 For greater certainty:  (a) in the case of Thailand, protection under this Agreement 
shall be accorded to investments, as referred to in paragraph 1(b) of this Article, 
which have been specifically approved in writing for protection by the competent 
authorities; (b) in the case of Cambodia and Viet Nam, “has been admitted” means 
“has been specifically registered or approved in writing, as the case may be”. 
 
 
 
2 
  
(b)  subsidies or grants provided by a Party;  
 
(c)  services supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority by the relevant body or authority of a 
Party.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  a 
service supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority  means  any  service  which  is  supplied 
neither on a commercial basis nor in competition 
with one or more service suppliers; and 
 
(d)  any  taxation  measure,  except  under  Article  11 
(Transfers). 
 
3.  This Agreement shall not apply to claims arising out of 
events  which  occurred,  or  claims  which  have  been  raised 
prior to the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
4.   (a)  This  Agreement  does  not  apply  to  measures 
adopted or maintained by a Party to the extent 
that they are covered by the ASEAN-India Trade 
in Services Agreement.  
   
(b)   Notwithstanding paragraph 4 (a), for the purpose 
of protection, Article 7 (Treatment of Investment), 
Article  8  (Expropriation  and  Compensation), 
Article  9  (Compensation  for  Losses),  Article  10 
(Subrogation), Article 11 (Transfers), and Article 
20 (Investment Disputes between a Party and an 
Investor),  shall  apply,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  any 
measure  affecting  the  supply  of  service  by  a 
service  supplier  of  a  Party  through  commercial 
presence in the territory of any one of the other 
Parties  pursuant  to  the  ASEAN-India  Trade  in 
Services Agreement  but only to the extent that 
any  such  measures  relate  to  an  investment  as 
referred  to  paragraph  1(b)  of  Article  1  (Scope) 
and  an  obligation  under  this  Agreement, 
regardless  of  whether  such  a  service  sector  is 
3 
 scheduled  in  a  Party's  schedule  of  specific 
services commitments made under the ASEAN-
India Trade in Services Agreement.2  
 
5.   For the purpose of liberalisation and subject to Article 4 
(Reservations), this Agreement shall apply to the following 
sectors: 
 
(a)  manufacturing;  
 
(b)  agriculture; 
 
(c)  fishery; 
 
(d)  forestry; and 
 
(e)     mining and quarrying. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on  Investment 
under  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive 
Economic  Cooperation  between  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of India; 
 
(b)  ASEAN  means  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  which  comprises  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the 
Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the 
Lao  People's  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  the 
Republic of the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the 
Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of 
Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and 
whose  members  are  referred  to  in  this  Agreement 
                                                 
2 For greater certainty, paragraph 4 (b) does not preclude a Party from applying 
Article 13 (Denial of Benefits) to such service supplier in its territory.   
 
4 
 collectively  as  the  ASEAN  Member  States  and 
individually as an ASEAN Member State; 
 
(c)  freely  usable  currency  means  a  freely  usable 
currency as determined by the International Monetary 
Fund  (IMF)  in  accordance  with  the  IMF  Articles  of 
Agreement and any amendments thereto; 
 
(d)  IMF  Articles  of  Agreement  means  the  Articles  of 
Agreement of the International Monetary Fund; 
 
(e)  investment3  means  every  kind  of  asset  that  an 
investor  owns  or  controls  in  the  territory  of  another 
Party,  and  that  has  the  characteristics  of  an 
investment,  including  such  characteristics  as  the 
commitment of capital, the expectation of gain or profit, 
or the assumption of risk.  
 
Forms that an investment may take include, but are not 
limited to: 
 
(i)    shares,  stocks  and  other  forms  of  equity 
participation  in  a  juridical  person  and  rights 
derived therefrom; 
 
(ii)   bonds,  debentures,  loans,  and  other  debt 
instruments  of  a  juridical  person  and  rights 
derived therefrom; 
 
(iii)   movable  and  immovable  property  and  other 
property  rights  such  as  mortgages,  liens  or 
pledges;  
 
(iv)   intellectual property rights recognised under the 
laws  and  regulations  of  each  Party  and 
                                                 
3 For greater certainty, the definition of investment shall be read in accordance with 
subparagraph 1(b) of Article1 (Scope). The term “investment” does not include an 
order or judgment entered in a judicial or administrative action. 
 
 
5 
 connected  with  the  substantial  business 
operation of a juridical person of that Party; 
 
(v)   claims  to  money  or  to  any  contractual 
performance related to a business of a juridical 
person  and  having  financial  value.  For  greater 
certainty,  investment  does  not  mean  claims  to 
money  that  arise  solely  from  (a)  commercial 
contracts for sale of goods or services; or (b) the 
extension  of  credit  in  connection  with  such 
commercial contracts; 
 
  Investment  will  not  include  any  other  claims  to 
money that do not involve subparagraph (e) (i) to 
(vii) of this Article;  
 
(vi)   rights  under  contracts,  including  turnkey, 
construction,  management,  production  or 
revenue-sharing contracts; 
 
(vii)   business  concessions  required  to  conduct 
economic  activity  and  having  financial  value 
conferred by law or under a contract, including 
concessions related to natural resources. 
 
For the purpose of the definition of investment in this 
Article,  returns  that  are  invested  shall  be  treated  as 
investments  and  any  alteration  of  the  form  in  which 
assets are invested or reinvested shall not affect their 
character as investments;  
 
(f)  investor of a Party means a natural person of a Party 
or a juridical person of a Party that  is making, or has 
made an investment in the territory of another Party;  
  
(g)   juridical  person  means  any  legal  entity  duly 
constituted  or  otherwise  organised  under  applicable 
laws  of  a  Party,  whether  for  profit  or  otherwise,  and 
whether  privately-owned  or  governmentally-owned, 
6 
 including  any  corporation,  trust,  partnership,  joint 
venture,  sole  proprietorship,  association  or 
cooperatives; 
 
(h)  juridical person of a Party means a juridical person 
constituted or organised under the  applicable laws of 
that Party;  
 
(i)    measure means any measure by a Party, whether in 
the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, 
administrative action and includes measures taken by: 
 
(i)  central,  regional,  or  local  governments  and 
authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of 
powers  delegated  by  central,  regional,  or  local 
governments or authorities; 
 
(j)   natural person of a Party means a person possessing 
the nationality or citizenship of that Party in accordance 
with its laws and regulations. 
 
In the case of Brunei Darussalam, in accordance with 
its  laws,  regulations  and  national  policies,  the  term 
“natural person of a Party” means a person possessing 
the nationality of Brunei Darussalam or a Permanent 
Resident of Brunei Darussalam who does not possess 
the  nationality  of  another  Party  or  non-Party.  Brunei 
Darussalam  shall  request  bilateral  consultations  with 
another Party, on a case-by-case basis, on the issue of 
whether to recognise such Permanent Resident as an 
investor of Brunei Darussalam; 
 
(k)  newer ASEAN Member States means the Kingdom of 
Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the 
Republic  of  the  Union  of  Myanmar  and  the  Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam; 
 
7 
 (l)  Parties mean the ASEAN Member States and India, 
collectively; 
 
(m)  Party means an ASEAN Member State or India; 
 
(n)  returns mean amounts yielded by or derived from an 
investment, including profits, dividends, interest, capital 
gains, royalties, fees, or payments in connection with 
intellectual property rights; 
 
(o)   WTO means the World Trade Organization; and 
 
(p)   WTO  Agreement  means  the  Marrakesh  Agreement 
Establishing the World Trade Organization, done on 15 
April 1994 . 
 
ARTICLE 3 
National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of another Party, 
and to investments as referred to in subparagraph 1(b) of 
Article 1 (Scope), in relation to the establishment, acquisition, 
expansion,  management,  conduct,  operation,  liquidation, 
sale, transfer or other disposition of investments, treatment 
no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, 
to its own investors and their investments.4   
 
2.  The  treatment  to  be  accorded  by  a  Party  under 
paragraph 1 of this Article means, with respect to a regional 
or  local  level,  treatment  no  less  favourable  than  the  most 
favoured treatment accorded at that regional or local level, in 
like  circumstances,  to  investors,  and  investments  of  the 
investors, of the Party to which it forms a part. 
 
                                                 
4 The Party shall not exercise any discrimination against investors of another Party or 
their investments. Another Party means an ASEAN Member State or India.  
 
 
8 
 3.  A Party shall not be obliged to extend to the investors 
of  another  Party  the  benefits  or  privileges  arising  from 
customs  union,  free  trade  agreements  or  similar  bilateral, 
regional  or  international  agreements  or  arrangements  of 
which that Party is or may become a member, including any 
arrangements between or among ASEAN Member States. 
 
4.   A  determination  of  whether  investments  or  investors 
are in “like circumstances” should be made, based upon an 
objective assessment of all circumstances on a case-by-case 
basis, including, inter alia: 
 
(a)  the sector the investor is in; 
 
(b)  the location of the investment; 
 
(c)  the aim of the measure concerned; and  
 
(d)  the  regulatory  process  generally  applied  in 
relation to the measure concerned.  
 
The  examination  shall  not  be  limited  to  or  biased 
towards any one factor. 
 
5.   Extension of financial assistance or measures taken by 
a  Party  in  favour  of  its  investors  and  their  investments  in 
pursuit of legitimate public purpose including the protection of 
health, safety, the environment shall not be considered as a 
violation of this Article. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Reservations5 
 
1.  Article 3 (National Treatment) shall not apply to: 
 
                                                 
5 For greater certainty, India shall provide a common single Schedule of Reservations 
which will be applied without discrimination among ASEAN Member States, and 
ASEAN Member States shall provide their respective Schedule of Reservations. 
9 
 (a)  any  existing  non-conforming  measure  that  is 
maintained by a Party at: 
 
(i)  the central level of government as set out 
by  that  Party  in  its  Schedule  of 
Reservations in List 1; 
 
(ii)  the regional level of government as set out 
by  that  Party  in  its  Schedule  of 
Reservations in List 1; or  
 
(iii)   the local level of government. 
 
(b)  the continuation or prompt renewal of any non-
conforming measure referred to in subparagraph 
(a); or 
 
(c)  an amendment to any non-conforming measure 
referred to in subparagraph (a) to the extent that 
the  amendment  does  not  decrease  the 
conformity  of  the  measure,  as  it  existed  at  the 
date of entry into force of the Party’s Schedule of 
Reservations  in  List  1,  with  Article  3  (National 
Treatment). 
 
2.  Article  3  (National  Treatment)  shall  not  apply  to  any 
reservation for measures that a Party adopts or maintains 
with respect to existing or new and emerging sectors, sub-
sectors or activities, as set out in List 2. 
 
3.  Other  than  pursuant  to  any  procedures  for  the 
modification of Schedules of Reservations, a Party may not, 
under any measure adopted after the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement and covered by List 2, require an investor 
of  another  Party,  by  reason  of  its  nationality,  to  sell  or 
otherwise dispose of an investment existing at the time the 
measure becomes effective. 
 
10 
 4.   Procedures  for  the  modification  of  the  Schedules  of 
Reservations referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article are to 
be pursuant to Article 6 (Work Programme). 
 
5.   Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to 
derogate  from  rights  and  obligations  under  international 
agreements in respect of protection of intellectual property 
rights  to  which  the  Parties  are  party,  including  the  WTO 
Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property 
Rights  (TRIPS  Agreement)  and  other  treaties  concluded 
under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Intellectual  Property 
Organization.   
  
6.   A Party may take reservations to exclude admission, 
establishment,  acquisition,  expansion,  management, 
conduct,  operation,  liquidation,  sale,  transfer  or  other 
disposition of portfolio investments from the benefits of this 
Agreement. Such reservations shall be notified upon entry 
into force of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Review of Reservations6 
 
1.  If, after this Agreement enters into force, a Party enters 
into any agreement on investment with a non-Party, it could 
give  consideration  to  a  request  by  another  Party  for  the 
incorporation herein of treatment no less favourable than that 
provided  under  the  aforesaid  agreement.  Any  such 
incorporation will be subject to mutual agreement and should 
maintain the overall balance of commitments undertaken by 
each Party under this Agreement. 
 
2.  As  part  of  the  review  of  this  Agreement  pursuant  to 
Article  28  (Review),  the  Parties  agree  to  review  their 
respective  Schedules  of  Reservations  with  a  view  to 
                                                 
6  For  greater  certainty,  India  shall  provide  a  common  single  Schedule  of 
Reservations, which will be applied without discrimination among ASEAN Member 
States,  and  ASEAN  Member  States  shall  provide  their  respective  Schedule  of 
Reservations. 
11 
 improving reservations on national treatment with regard to 
the establishment, acquisition or expansion of investments. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Work Programme 
 
1.  The Parties shall enter into discussions on: 
 
(a)  Schedules  of  Reservations  to  this  Agreement; 
and 
 
(b)  Procedures for the modification of Schedules of 
Reservations.  
 
2.  The Parties shall conclude the discussions referred to 
in paragraph 1 of this Article, within three (3) years from the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement unless the Parties 
otherwise agree. These discussions shall be overseen by the 
Joint Committee on Investment established under Article 23 
(Joint Committee on Investment).  
 
3.  Schedules of Reservations referred to in paragraph 1 
of this Article shall enter into force on a date agreed to by the 
Parties. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this 
Agreement,  Article  3  (National  Treatment),  Article  28 
(Review), and paragraphs 1 to 5 of Article 4 (Reservations), 
shall not apply until the Parties’ Schedules of Reservations 
have entered into force in accordance with paragraph 3 of 
this Article.  
 
5.  For  the  purpose  of  subparagraph  (j)  of  Article  2 
(Definitions),  the  Parties  recognise  that  the  criteria  for 
recognition  of  Brunei  Darussalam’s  Permanent  Residents 
may be established during such bilateral consultations. 
 
12 
 ARTICLE 7 
Treatment of Investment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investments as referred to  
in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 (Scope), fair and equitable 
treatment and full protection and security. 
 
2.  For greater certainty:7  
 
(a)     fair and equitable treatment requires each Party 
not to deny justice in any legal or administrative 
proceedings; 
 
(b)    full protection and security requires each Party to 
take  such  measures  as  may  be  reasonably 
necessary to ensure the protection and security 
of the investments as referred to in subparagraph 
1(b) of Article 1 (Scope); and 
 
(c)     the concepts of “fair and equitable treatment” and 
“full  protection  and  security”  do  not  require 
treatment in addition to or beyond that which is 
required under customary international law, and 
do not create additional substantive rights. 
 
3.  A  determination  that  there  has  been  a  breach  of 
another  provision  of  this  Agreement,  or  of  a  separate 
international  agreement,  does  not  establish  that  there  has 
been a breach of this Article. 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Expropriation and Compensation 
 
1.  A Party shall not expropriate or nationalise investments 
as referred to in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 (Scope) either 
                                                 
7  In the case of Indonesia, only subparagraphs 2(a) and (b) shall apply where 
Indonesia is the Party according treatment under this Article.  
 
13 
 directly or through measures equivalent to expropriation or 
nationalisation (“expropriation”), except: 
 
(a)  for a public purpose; 
 
(b)  in a non-discriminatory manner; 
 
(c)  on  payment  of  prompt,  adequate,  and  effective 
compensation; and 
 
(d)  in accordance with due process of law. 
 
2.  A measure or a series of related measures by a Party 
cannot constitute an expropriation unless it interferes with a 
tangible  or  intangible  property  right  in  an  investment  as 
referred to in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 (Scope). Such 
measure addresses two situations: 
 
(a)  the first situation is direct expropriation, where an 
investment as referred to in subparagraph 1(b) of 
Article  1  (Scope)  is  nationalised  or  otherwise 
directly  expropriated  through  formal  transfer  of 
title or outright seizure; and 
 
(b)  the  second  situation  is  where  a  measure  or 
series  of  related  measures  by  a  Party  has  an 
effect  equivalent  to  direct  expropriation  without 
formal transfer of title or outright seizure.   
 
3.   The determination of whether a measure or series of 
related  measures  by  a  Party,  in  a  specific  fact  situation, 
constitutes  an  expropriation  of  the  type  referred  to  in 
subparagraph  2(b)  of  this  Article  requires  a  case-by-case, 
fact-based inquiry that considers, among other factors: 
 
(a)  the economic impact of the government measure, 
although  the  fact  that  a  measure  or  series  of 
related  measures  by  a  Party  has  an  adverse 
effect on the economic value of an investment, 
14 
 standing alone, does not establish that such an 
expropriation has occurred; 
 
(b)  whether the government measure breaches the 
government’s prior binding written commitment to 
the investor whether by contract, licence or other 
legal document; and 
 
(c)  the  character  of  the  government  measure, 
including its objectives and whether the measure 
is disproportionate to the public purpose. 
 
4.  The compensation referred to in subparagraph 1(c) of 
this Article shall: 
 
(a)  be paid without delay;8 
 
(b)  be  equivalent  to  the  fair  market  value  of  the 
expropriated  investment  at  the  time  when  or 
immediately before the expropriation was publicly 
announced,9 or when the expropriation occurred, 
whichever is applicable; 
 
(c)  not  reflect  any  change  in  value  because  the 
intended  expropriation  had  become  known 
earlier; and 
 
(d)  be effectively realisable and freely transferable. 
 
5.  In the event of delay, the compensation shall include 
an appropriate interest at the prevailing commercial rate.10 
                                                 
8  The Parties understand that there may be legal and administrative processes that 
need to be observed before payment can be made. 
 
9  In  the  case  of  the  Philippines,  the  time  when  or  immediately  before  the 
expropriation was publicly announced refers to the date of filing of the Petition for 
Expropriation. 
 
10 For Cambodia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam, in the 
event of delay, the rate and payment of interest of compensation for expropriation of 
investments of investors of another Party shall be determined in accordance with 
15 
 The compensation, including any accrued interest, shall be 
payable either in the currency in which the investment was 
originally made or, if requested by the investor, in a freely 
usable currency. 
 
6.    If  an  investor  requests  payment  in  a  freely  usable 
currency, the compensation referred to in subparagraph 1(c) 
of  this  Article,  including  any  accrued  interest,  shall  be 
converted into the currency of payment at the market rate of 
exchange prevailing on the date of payment. 
 
7.   This  Article  does  not  apply  to  the  issuance  of 
compulsory  licences  granted  in  relation  to  intellectual 
property rights, in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
8.   Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 6 of this Article, 
any  measure  of  expropriation  relating  to  land  shall  be  as 
defined  in  the  expropriating  Party’s  existing  domestic  laws 
and regulations and any amendments thereto, and shall be 
for the purposes of and upon payment of compensation in 
accordance with the aforesaid laws and regulations. 
 
9.   Non-discriminatory regulatory measures by a Party or 
measures and awards by judicial bodies of a Party that are 
designed and applied in pursuit of public policy to achieve 
legitimate public interest or public welfare objectives, such as 
the protection of public health, safety, and the environment, 
do  not  constitute  expropriation  of  the  type  referred  to  in 
subparagraph 2(b) of this Article.  
 
ARTICLE 9 
Compensation for Losses 
 
Investors  of  a  Party  whose  investments  as  referred  to  in 
subparagraph  1(b)  of  Article  1  (Scope)  in  the  territory  of  
another  Party  suffer  losses  owing  to  war  or  other  armed 
                                                                                                                              
their laws, regulations and policies provided that such laws, regulations and policies 
are applied on a non-discriminatory basis.  
 
16 
 conflict, a state of national emergency or civil disturbances in 
the territory of the latter Party, shall be accorded by the latter 
Party  treatment,  as  regards  restitution,  indemnification, 
compensation or other settlement, if any, no less favourable 
than that which the latter Party accords to its own investors 
and their investments or to investors of any other Party or 
non-Party and their investments.   
 
ARTICLE 10 
Subrogation 
 
1.  If a Party or an agency of a Party makes a payment to 
an investor of that Party under a guarantee, a contract of 
insurance or other form of indemnity it has granted on non-
commercial risk in respect of an investment, the other Party 
shall  recognise  the  subrogation  or  transfer  of  any  right  or 
claim  in  respect  of  such  investment.  The  subrogated  or 
transferred right or claim shall not be greater than the original 
right or claim of the investor. 
 
2.    Where a Party or an agency of a Party has made a 
payment  to  an  investor  of  that  Party  and  has  taken  over 
rights  and  claims  of  the  investor,  that  investor  shall  not, 
unless authorised to act on behalf of the Party or the agency 
making the payment, pursue those rights and claims against 
the other Party. 
 
3.  In any proceeding involving an investment dispute, a 
Party shall not assert, as a defence, counter-claim, right of 
set-off or otherwise, that the investor or the investment as 
referred  to  in  subparagraph  1(b)  of  Article  1  (Scope)  has 
received  or  will  receive,  pursuant  to  an  insurance  or 
guarantee  contract,  indemnification  or  other  compensation 
for all or part of any alleged loss. 
 
4.   In the exercise of subrogated rights or claims, a Party 
or the agency of the Party exercising such rights or claims 
shall disclose the coverage of the claims arrangement with 
its investors to the relevant Party. 
17 
 ARTICLE 11 
Transfers 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  allow  all  transfers  relating  to 
investments as referred to in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 
(Scope) to be made freely and without delay. Such transfers 
include: 
 
(a)  initial capital and additional amount to maintain or 
increase the investment; 
 
(b)  profits, capital gains, dividends, royalties, licence 
fees,  technical  assistance  and  technical  and 
management  fees,  interest  and  other  current 
income  accruing  from  any  investments  as 
referred  to  in  subparagraph  1(b)  of  Article  1 
(Scope); 
 
(c)  proceeds  from  the  total  or  partial  sale  or 
liquidation  of  any  investments  as  referred  to  in 
subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 (Scope); 
 
(d)  payments  made  under  a  contract,  including  a 
loan agreement; 
 
(e)  payments  made  pursuant  to  Article  8 
(Expropriation and Compensation) and Article 9 
(Compensation for Losses); 
 
(f)  payments  arising  out  of  the  settlement  of  a 
dispute  by  any  means  including  adjudication, 
arbitration or the agreement of the parties to the 
dispute; and 
 
(g)    earnings  and  other  remuneration  of  personnel 
employed or engaged on contractual basis from 
abroad  in  connection  with  that  investments  as 
referred  to  in  subparagraph  1(b)  of  Article  1 
(Scope). 
18 
  
2.  Each  Party  shall  allow  such  transfers  relating  to  an 
investment as referred to in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 
(Scope) to be made in a freely usable currency at the market 
rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, a 
Party may prevent or delay a transfer through the equitable, 
non-discriminatory, and good faith application of its laws and 
regulations relating to: 
 
(a)  bankruptcy,  insolvency,  or  the  protection  of  the 
rights of creditors; 
 
(b)  issuing, trading, or dealing in securities, futures, 
options, or derivatives; 
 
(c)  criminal or penal offences and the recovery of the 
proceeds of crime; 
 
(d)  financial reporting or record keeping of transfers 
when  necessary  to  assist  law  enforcement  or 
financial regulatory authorities; 
 
(e)  ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in 
judicial or administrative proceedings; 
 
(f)  taxation; 
 
(g)  social security, public retirement, or  compulsory 
savings  schemes,  including  provident  funds, 
retirement  gratuity  programmes  and  employees 
insurance programmes; 
 
(h)  severance entitlements of employees;  
 
(i)  requirement  to  register  and  satisfy  other 
formalities  imposed  by  the  Central  Bank  and 
other relevant authorities of a Party; and 
19 
  
(j)  in the case of India, requirements to lock-in initial 
capital  investments,  as  provided  in  India’s 
Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  Policy,  where 
applicable,  provided  that,  any  new  measure 
which  would  require  a  lock-in  period  for 
investments  should  not  apply  to  existing 
investments.  
 
4.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and 
obligations of the Parties as members of the IMF under the 
IMF Articles of Agreement, as may be amended, including 
the use of exchange actions which are in conformity with the 
IMF Articles of Agreement, provided that a Party shall not 
impose restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently 
with  its  specific  commitments  regarding  such  transactions, 
except under Article 12 (Temporary Safeguard Measures) or 
at the request of the IMF. 
 
ARTICLE 12 
Temporary Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  A  Party  may  adopt  or  maintain  measures  not 
conforming  with  its  obligations  under  Article  3  (National 
Treatment)  relating  to  cross-border  capital  transactions  or 
Article  11  (Transfers)  in  the  event  of  serious  balance  of 
payments  and  external  financial  difficulties  or  under  threat 
thereof.   
 
2.  A  Party  may  adopt  or  maintain  measures  not 
conforming with its obligations under Article 11 (Transfers) in 
cases  where,  in  exceptional  circumstances,  movements  of 
capital  cause  or  threaten  to  cause  serious  economic  or 
financial disturbance or serious difficulties for the operation of 
monetary or exchange rate policies in the Party concerned.11 
 
                                                 
11 For greater certainty, any measures taken to ensure the stability of the exchange 
rate including to prevent speculative capital flows shall not be adopted or maintained 
for the purpose of protecting a particular sector. 
20 
 3.   The measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Article shall: 
 
(a)  be consistent with the IMF Articles of Agreement, 
as may be amended; 
 
(b)  avoid  unnecessary  damage  to  the  commercial, 
economic  and  financial  interests  of    another 
Party; 
 
(c)  not  exceed  those  necessary  to  deal  with  the 
circumstances described in paragraph 1 or 2; 
 
(d)  be  temporary  and  phased  out  progressively  as 
the situation specified in paragraph 1 improves; 
and 
 
(e)  be applied such that any one of the other Parties 
is treated no less favourably than any other Party 
or non-Party. 
 
4.  Measures  adopted  or  maintained  pursuant  to 
paragraph 2 of this Article shall, in addition to subparagraphs 
3(a) to (e) of this Article: 
 
(a)  be phased out when conditions would no longer 
justify their institution or maintenance;  
 
(b)  be applied on a national treatment basis; and 
 
(c)  avoid  unnecessary  damage  to  investors  and 
investments as referred to in subparagraph 1(b) 
of Article 1 (Scope) of another Party. 
 
5.   Any  restrictions  adopted  or  maintained  under 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article or any changes therein, 
shall be promptly notified to the other Parties. 
 
21 
 6.   To  the  extent  that  it  does  not  duplicate  the  process 
under  the  WTO,  IMF,  or  any  other  similar  processes,  the 
Party  adopting  any  restrictions  under  paragraph  1  of  this 
Article  shall,  on  the  request  of  another  Party,  commence 
consultations in order to review the restrictions adopted by it. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Denial of Benefits 
 
1.  A Party may deny the benefits of this Agreement to an 
investor of another Party that is a juridical person of the other 
Party and to an investment of such investor if an investor of a 
non-Party  owns  or  controls  the  juridical  person,  and  the 
denying Party: 
 
(a)  does  not  maintain  diplomatic  relations  with  the 
non-Party; or 
  
(b)  adopts or maintains measures with respect to the 
non-Party  that  prohibits  transactions  with  the 
juridical  person  or  that  would  be  violated  or 
circumvented  if  the  benefits  of  this  Agreement 
were  accorded  to  the  juridical  person  or  to  its 
investments. 
 
2.  Subject  to  prior  notification  and  consultation  with  the 
other  Party,  a  Party  may  also  deny  the  benefits  of  this 
Agreement to an investor of the other Party that is a juridical 
person of the other Party and to investments of that juridical 
person and where the denying Party establishes that: 
 
(a)  the juridical person has no substantive business 
operations in the territory of the other Party; or  
 
(b)  the  juridical  person  is  owned  or  controlled  by 
investor(s) of a non-Party or of the denying Party.  
 
 
 
22 
 3.  A juridical person is: 
 
(a)  “owned”  by  an  investor  in  accordance  with  the 
laws,  regulations  and  national  policies  of  each 
Party;  
   
(b)  “controlled” by an investor if the investor has the 
power  to  name  a  majority  of  its  directors  or 
otherwise to legally direct its actions. 
 
4.  Following  notification,  and  without  prejudice  to 
paragraph 1 of this Article, in the case of the Republic of the 
Philippines,  the  Philippines  may  deny  the  benefits  of  this 
Agreement  to  an  investor  of  any  other  Party  and  to 
investments of that investor, where it establishes that such 
investor has made an investment in breach of the provisions 
of  Commonwealth  Act  No.  108  (An  Act  to  Punish  Acts  of 
Evasion  of  Laws  on  the  Nationalization  of  Certain  Rights, 
Franchises or Privileges) as amended by Presidential Decree 
No. 715, otherwise known as “the Anti-Dummy Law”, as may 
be amended. 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Transparency  
 
1.   In order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement, 
each Party shall: 
 
(a)  to the extent possible make available all relevant 
laws,  regulations,  policies  and  administrative 
guidelines of general application that pertain to, 
or affect investments in its territory; 
 
(b)  establish  or  designate  an  enquiry  point  where, 
upon  request  of  any  natural  person,  juridical 
person  or  any  one  of  the  other  Parties,  all 
information relating to the measures required to 
be  published  or  made  available  under  sub-
paragraph (a) may be promptly obtained; and 
23 
 (c)  notify  the  other  Parties  through  the  ASEAN 
Secretariat  at  least  once  annually  of  any  
investment-related agreements or arrangements 
which  grants  any  preferential  treatment  and  to 
which it is a party. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour, upon request by another 
Party, to respond promptly to specific questions and provide 
information  to  that  other  Party  with  respect  to  matters 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
3.   Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  require  a  Party  to 
furnish  or  allow  access  to  confidential  information,  the 
disclosure  of  which  would  impede  law  enforcement,  or 
otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would 
prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests  of  particular 
juridical persons, public or private. 
 
4.     All notifications and communications made pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of this Article shall be in the English language. 
 
ARTICLE 15 
Special Formalities and Disclosure of Information 
 
1.  Nothing  in  Article  3  (National  Treatment)  shall  be 
construed to prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining a 
measure  that  prescribes  special  formalities  in  connection 
with  an  investment,  including  a  requirement  that  such  an 
investment  be  legally  constituted  under  the  laws  or 
regulations of the Party, provided that such formalities do not 
materially impair the rights afforded by a Party to investors of 
another  Party  and  their  investments  pursuant  to  this 
Agreement. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding Article 3 (National Treatment), a Party 
may require an investor of another Party, or investment, to 
provide  information  concerning  that  investment  solely  for 
informational or statistical purposes. The Party shall protect 
to the extent possible any confidential information which has 
24 
 been  provided  from  any  disclosure  that  would  prejudice 
legitimate  commercial  interests  of  the  investor  or  the 
investments. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
prevent  a  Party  from  otherwise  obtaining  or  disclosing 
information in connection with the equitable and good faith 
application of its laws. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Special and Differential Treatment for the Newer ASEAN 
Member States 
 
In order to increase the benefits of this Agreement for the 
newer ASEAN Member States, and in accordance with the 
objectives  of  and  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  and 
objectives of Article 2 (Measures for Economic Cooperation) 
of the Framework Agreement, the Parties shall accord, to the 
extent  possible,  special  and  differential  treatment  to  the 
newer  ASEAN  Member  States  under  this  Agreement, 
through: 
 
(a)   technical  assistance  to  strengthen  their  capacity  in 
relation to investment policies and promotion, including 
in areas such as human resource development; 
 
(b)  access  to  information  on  the  investment  policies  of 
other Parties, business information, relevant databases 
and contact points for investment promotion agencies; 
 
(c)  commitments in areas of interest to the newer ASEAN 
Member States; and 
 
(d)  recognising that commitments by each newer ASEAN 
Member  State  may  be  made  in  accordance  with  its 
individual stage of development. 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
 ARTICLE 17 
Promotion of Investment 
 
The  Parties  shall  cooperate  in  promoting  investment 
activities  by  building  upon  existing  agreements  or 
arrangements  already  in  place  for  economic  cooperation, 
with the aim of advancing investment relations between the 
Parties through, amongst others: 
 
(a)  encouraging  ASEAN-India investments;  
 
(b)  organising investment promotion activities; 
 
(c)  promoting business matching events; 
 
(d)  organising and supporting the organisation of various 
briefings  and  seminars  on  investment  opportunities 
and on investment laws, regulations and policies; and 
 
(e)  conducting information exchanges on other issues of 
mutual concern relating to investment promotion and 
facilitation.  
 
ARTICLE 18 
Facilitation of Investment 
 
Subject  to  their  laws  and  regulations,  the  Parties  shall 
cooperate  to  facilitate  investments  amongst  ASEAN  and 
India through, amongst others: 
 
(a)  endeavour to create the necessary environment for all 
forms of investment; 
 
(b)  simplifying procedures for investment applications and 
approvals; 
 
(c)  promoting  dissemination  of  investment  information, 
including  investment  rules,  regulations,  policies  and 
procedures; and 
26 
  
(d)  establishing  one-stop  investment  centres  in  the 
respective  host  Parties  to  provide  assistance  and 
advisory  services  to  the  business  sectors  including 
facilitation of operating licences and permits. 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Dispute between Parties 
 
The  provisions  of  the  Agreement  on  Dispute  Settlement 
Mechanism  under  the  Framework  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive  Economic  Cooperation  between  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of 
India signed in Bangkok, Thailand on 13 August 2009 shall 
apply to the settlement of disputes between or amongst the 
Parties under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor 
 
Scope  
 
1.   This Article shall apply to investment disputes between 
a  Party  and  an  investor  of  another  Party  concerning  an 
alleged  breach  of  an  obligation  of  the  former  Party  under 
Article  3  (National  Treatment),  Article  7  (Treatment  of 
Investment),  Article  8  (Expropriation  and  Compensation), 
Article  9  (Compensation  for  Losses)  and  Article  11 
(Transfers), which causes loss or damage to the investor in 
relation to its investment as referred to in subparagraph  1(b) 
of  Article  1  (Scope)  with  respect  to  the  management, 
conduct,  operation,  or  sale  or  other  disposition  of  such 
investment. 
 
2.  This Article shall not apply: 
 
(a)  to  investment  disputes  arising  out  of  events 
which occurred or to investment disputes which 
had  been  settled  or  which  were  already  under 
27 
 judicial or arbitral process, prior to the entry into 
force of this Agreement; or 
 
(b)  in cases where the disputing investor holds the 
nationality or citizenship of the disputing Party.  
 
3.   Nothing  in  this  Article  shall  be  construed  so  as  to 
prevent a disputing investor from seeking administrative or 
judicial settlement available within the disputing Party.  
 
4.  For the purpose of this Article: 
 
(a)  disputing Party means a Party against which a 
claim is made under this Article; 
 
(b)  disputing party means a disputing investor or a 
disputing Party; 
 
(c)  disputing  parties  means  a  disputing  investor 
and a disputing Party; 
 
(d)  disputing investor means an investor of a Party 
that makes a claim against another Party on its 
own behalf under this Article, and where relevant 
includes  an  investor  of  a  Party  that  makes  a 
claim  on  behalf  of  a  juridical  person  of  the 
disputing Party that the investor owns or controls; 
 
(e)  ICSID  means  the  International  Centre  for 
Settlement of Investment Disputes; 
 
(f)  ICSID Convention means the Convention on the 
Settlement  of  Investment  Disputes  between 
States  and  Nationals  of  Other  States,  done  at 
Washington on 18 March 1965; 
 
(g)  ICSID  Additional  Facility  Rules  means  the 
Rules  Governing  the  Additional  Facility  for  the 
Administration of Proceedings by the Secretariat 
28 
 of  the  International  Centre  for  Settlement  of 
Investment Disputes; 
 
(h)  New  York  Convention  means  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Recognition  and 
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at 
New York on 10 June 1958; 
  
(i)  non-disputing  Party  means  the  Party  of  the 
disputing investor; and 
 
(j)  UNCITRAL  Arbitration  Rules  means  the 
arbitration  rules  of  the  United  Nations 
Commission  on  International  Trade  Law 
approved  by  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly on 15 December 1976.  
 
Consultation and Negotiation  
 
5.   In  the  event  of  an  investment  dispute  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1 of this Article, the disputing parties shall as far 
as  possible  resolve  the  dispute  through  consultations  and 
negotiations,  with  a  view  towards  reaching  an  amicable 
settlement. Such consultations and negotiations, which may 
include the use of non-binding, third party procedures, shall 
be  initiated  by  a  written  request  for  consultations  and 
negotiations by the disputing investor to the disputing Party. 
 
6.   With the objective of resolving an investment dispute 
through consultations and negotiations, a disputing investor 
shall provide the disputing Party, prior to the commencement 
of consultations and negotiations, with information regarding 
the legal and factual basis for the dispute.   
 
Choice of Forum 
 
7.   Where the dispute cannot be resolved as provided for 
under paragraph 5 of this Article within one hundred eighty 
(180) days from the date of written request for consultations 
29 
 and  negotiations,  unless  the  disputing  parties  agree 
otherwise, it may be submitted at the choice of the disputing 
investor to: 
 
(a)  the  courts  or  administrative  tribunals  of  the 
disputing Party;12  
 
(b)  conciliation or arbitration in accordance with the 
ICSID  Convention  and  the  ICSID  Rules  of 
Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings,13 provided 
that  both  the  disputing  Party  and  the  non-
disputing  Party  are  parties  to  the  ICSID 
Convention;  
 
(c)  conciliation  or  arbitration  under  the  ICSID 
Additional Facility Rules, provided that either of 
the disputing Party or the non-disputing Party  is 
a party, but not both, to the ICSID Convention;  
 
(d)  an  international  ad  hoc  arbitral  tribunal 
established  under  the  UNCITRAL  Arbitration 
Rules; or 
 
(e)  any other arbitral institution or in accordance with 
any  other  arbitral  rules,  if  the  disputing  parties 
agree. 
 
Provided  that  submission  of  the  dispute  by  the  disputing 
investor to any courts or administrative tribunals or to any 
fora or any arbitration rules under subparagraphs 7(a) to (e) 
shall exclude resort to the other. 
 
 
 
                                                 
12 This shall apply provided such courts or administrative tribunals have jurisdiction.  
 
13 In the case of Philippines, submission of a claim under the ICSID Convention and 
the ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings shall be subject to a written 
agreement between the disputing parties in the event that an investment dispute 
arises. 
30 
 Conditions and Limitations on Submission of Claim 
 
8.   The  submission  of  a  dispute  to  conciliation  or 
arbitration  under  subparagraph  7(b),  (c),  (d)  or  (e)  of  this 
Article in accordance with the provisions of this Article, shall 
be conditional upon: 
 
(a)  the submission of the dispute to such conciliation 
or arbitration taking place within three (3) years of 
the time at which the disputing investor became 
aware, or should reasonably have become aware 
of an alleged breach of an obligation under this 
Agreement  causing  loss  or  damage  to  the 
investor in relation to its investment as referred to 
in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 1 (Scope); and 
 
(b)   the disputing investor providing to the disputing 
Party a written notice of intent at least ninety (90) 
days before the claim is submitted. The notice of 
intent shall specify: 
 
(i)   either subparagraph 7(b), (c), (d) or (e) as 
the forum for dispute settlement and, in the 
case  of  subparagraph  7(b),  whether 
conciliation or arbitration is being sought; 
 
(ii)  the  name  and  address  of  the  disputing 
investor and its legal representative; 
 
(iii)   the waiver of the right to initiate or continue 
any proceedings, excluding proceedings for 
interim measures of protection referred to in 
paragraph  30  of  this  Article,  before  any 
other dispute settlement fora referred to in 
paragraph 7 of this Article in relation to the 
matter under dispute;  
 
(iv)  a  brief  summary  of  the  factual  and  legal 
basis of the dispute sufficient to present the 
31 
 problem clearly, including the provisions of 
this  Agreement  alleged  to  have  been 
breached  and  the  relevant  measure  at 
issue, as may be applicable; and 
 
(v)   the  relief  sought,  and  where  appropriate, 
the  approximate  amount  of  damages 
claimed.  
 
9.   The  applicable  arbitration  rules  shall  govern  the 
arbitration  referred  to  in  this  Article  except  to  the  extent 
modified by the Parties in this Article. 
 
Selection of Arbitrators 
10.   Unless  the    disputing  parties  agree  otherwise,  an 
arbitral  tribunal  established  under  subparagraphs  7(b),  (c), 
(d) and (e) of this Article shall comprise three (3) arbitrators, 
one (1) arbitrator appointed by each of the disputing parties 
within seventy-five (75) days from the date the investment 
dispute  was  submitted  for  arbitration.  The  third  arbitrator, 
who shall be the presiding arbitrator, shall be appointed by 
agreement of the disputing parties. If the disputing investor or 
the disputing Party fails to appoint their respective arbitrators 
within  seventy-five  (75)  days  from  the  date  on  which  the 
investment  dispute  was  submitted  to  arbitration,  the 
Secretary-General of ICSID in the case of arbitration referred 
to in subparagraph 7(b) or (c) of this Article, or the Secretary-
General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in the 
case of arbitration referred to in subparagraph 7(d) or (e) of 
this Article, on the request of either of the disputing parties, 
shall  appoint,  in  his  or  her  discretion,  the  arbitrator  or 
arbitrators not yet appointed from the ICSID or PCA Panel of 
Arbitrators  respectively,  subject  to  the  requirements  of 
paragraph 11 of this Article. 
 
11.   Unless the disputing parties agree otherwise, the third 
arbitrator shall:  
32 
 (a)  not be of the same nationality as the disputing 
investor, nor be a national of the disputing Party;   
 
(b)  not have his or her usual place of residence in 
the  territory  of  either  disputing  Party  or  non-
disputing Party; 
 
(c)  not  be  employed  by  nor  affiliated  with  the 
disputing  Party,  the  non-disputing  Party,  or  the 
disputing investor; 
 
(d)  not have dealt with the said investment dispute in 
any capacity; and 
 
(e)  have  expertise  or  experience  in  public 
international  law,  international  trade  or 
international investment rules. 
 
Conduct of Arbitration 
 
12.   Where issues relating to jurisdiction or admissibility are 
raised as preliminary objections, the tribunal shall decide the 
matter before proceeding to the merits. 
 
13.  A disputing Party may, no later than three (3) months 
after the constitution of the tribunal, file an objection that a 
claim  is  manifestly  without  merit  or  not  admissible.  A 
disputing  Party  may  also  file  an  objection  that  a  claim  is 
otherwise  outside  the  jurisdiction  or  competence  of  the 
tribunal.  The  disputing  Party  shall  specify  as  precisely  as 
possible the basis for the objection. 
 
14.  The  tribunal  shall  address  any  such  objection  as  a 
preliminary question apart from the merits of the claim. The 
disputing parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 
present their views and observations to the tribunal. If the 
tribunal decides that the claim is manifestly without merit, or 
is otherwise not within the jurisdiction or competence of the 
tribunal, it shall render an award to that effect. 
33 
 15.  The  tribunal  may,  if  warranted,  award  the  prevailing 
disputing  party  reasonable  costs  and  fees  incurred  in 
submitting or opposing the objection. In determining whether 
such  an  award  is  warranted,  the  tribunal  shall  consider 
whether  either  the  claim  or  the  objection  was  frivolous  or 
manifestly  without  merit,  and  shall  provide  the  disputing 
parties a reasonable opportunity to submit their comments. 
 
16.   Unless the disputing parties otherwise agree, the place 
of  arbitration  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the 
applicable arbitration rules, provided that the place shall be in 
the  territory  of  a  State  that  is  a  party  to  the  New  York 
Convention. 
 
Transparency 
 
17.   Subject to paragraph 18 of this Article, the disputing 
Party may make publicly available final awards and decisions 
made by the tribunal. 
 
18.   Any information specifically designated as confidential 
that is submitted to the tribunal or the disputing parties shall 
be protected from disclosure to the public.  
 
Joint Interpretation 
 
19.   The tribunal shall, on its own account or at the request 
of  a  disputing  Party,  request  a  joint  interpretation  of  any 
provision of this Agreement that is in issue in a dispute. The 
Parties  shall  submit  in  writing  any  joint  decision  declaring 
their interpretation to the tribunal within sixty (60) days of the 
request. Without prejudice to paragraph 20 of this Article, if 
the Parties fail to submit such a decision within sixty (60) 
days,  any  interpretation  submitted  by  a  Party  individually 
shall be forwarded to the disputing parties and the tribunal, 
which shall decide the issue on its own account. 
 
20.   A  joint  decision  of  the  Parties,  declaring  their 
interpretation  of  a  provision  of  this  Agreement  shall  be 
34 
 binding on the tribunal, and any decision or award issued by 
the tribunal must be consistent with that joint decision. 
 
Awards 
 
21.   The award shall include: 
 
(a)  a judgment as to whether or not there has been a 
breach  by  the  disputing  Party  of  any  rights 
conferred  by  this  Agreement  in  respect  of  the 
disputing investor and its investments; and 
 
(b)  a  remedy  if  there  has  been  such  breach.  The 
remedy  shall  be  limited  to  one  or  both  of  the 
following: 
 
(i)  payment  of  monetary  damages  and 
applicable interest; and 
 
(ii)  restitution  of  property,  in  which  case  the 
award shall provide that the disputing Party 
may  pay  monetary  damages  and  any 
applicable interest in lieu of restitution. 
 
22.   A tribunal may not award punitive damages. 
 
23.   An award made by a tribunal shall be final and binding 
upon the disputing parties. An award shall have no binding 
force except between the disputing parties and in respect of 
the particular case. 
 
24.  The award rendered in accordance with paragraph 21 
of this Article shall be final and binding upon the disputing 
parties. The disputing Party shall provide for the enforcement 
of such award and execute it without delay.14   
 
                                                 
14  The  Parties  understand  that  there  may  be  domestic  legal  and  administrative 
processes that need to be observed before an award can be complied with. 
 
35 
 25.  Subject  to  paragraph  26  of  this  Article  and  the 
applicable review procedure for an interim award, a disputing 
party  shall  abide  by  and  comply  with  an  award  without 
delay.15 
 
26.  A disputing party may not seek enforcement of a final 
award until: 
 
(a)  in  the  case  of  a  final  award  under  the  ICSID 
Convention: 
 
(i)  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  have 
elapsed  from  the  date  the  award  was 
rendered  and  no  disputing  party  has 
requested  revision  or  annulment  of  the 
award; or 
 
(ii)  revision  or  annulment  proceedings  have 
been completed; 
 
(b)  in  the  case  of  a  final  award  under  the  ICSID 
Additional  Facility  Rules,  the  UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules, or the rules selected pursuant 
to  subparagraph 7(e) of this Article : 
 
(i)  ninety  (90)  days  have  elapsed  from  the 
date  the  award  was  rendered  and  no 
disputing  party  has  commenced  a 
proceeding to revise, set aside, or annul the 
award; or 
 
(ii)  a  court  has  dismissed  or  allowed  an 
application to revise, set aside, or annul the 
award and there is no further appeal. 
 
27.   Each  Party  shall  provide  for  the  enforcement  of  an 
award in its territory. 
                                                 
15  The  Parties  understand  that  there  may  be  domestic  legal  and  administrative 
processes that need to be observed before an award can be complied with. 
36 
 Costs 
 
28.  Costs  may  also  be  awarded  in  accordance  with  the 
applicable arbitration rules. 
 
29.    The  non-disputing  Party  shall  not,  in  respect  of  a 
dispute  which  one  of  its  investors  has  submitted  to 
conciliation or arbitration in accordance with paragraph 7 of 
this  Article,  give  diplomatic  protection,  or  bring  an 
international claim before another forum, unless the disputing 
Party  has  failed  to  abide  by  and  comply  with  the  award 
rendered  in  such  dispute.  Diplomatic  protection,  for  the 
purposes  of  this  paragraph,  shall  not  include  informal 
diplomatic  exchanges  for  the  sole  purpose  of  facilitating  a 
settlement of the dispute. 
 
30.   No  Party  shall  prevent  the  disputing  investor  from 
seeking  interim  measures  of  protection,  not  involving  the 
payment of damages or resolution of the substance of the 
matter in dispute before the courts or administrative tribunals 
of the disputing Party, prior to the institution of proceedings 
before  any  of  the  dispute  settlement  fora  referred  to  in 
paragraph 7 of this Article, for the preservation of its rights 
and interests. 
 
Governing Law 
 
31.  The  tribunal  shall  decide  the  issues  in  dispute  in 
accordance with this Agreement and the applicable rules of 
international  law  and  where  applicable,  any  relevant 
domestic law of the disputing Party. 
 
ARTICLE 21 
General Exceptions 
 
1.   Subject to the requirement that such measures are not 
applied  in  a  manner  which  would  constitute  a  means  of 
arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  against  or  amongst 
the Parties, their investors, or their investments where like 
37 
 conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on investors of 
any  Party  or  their  investments,  nothing  in  this  Agreement 
shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by 
any Party of measures: 
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals or to maintain 
public order; 
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life 
or health; 
 
(c)  necessary  to  secure  compliance  with  laws  or 
regulations  which  are  not  inconsistent  with  the 
provisions  of  this  Agreement  including  those 
relating to: 
 
(i)   the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent 
practices  to  deal  with  the  effects  of  a 
default on a contract; 
 
(ii)  the protection of the privacy of individuals in 
relation  to  the  processing  and 
dissemination  of  personal  data  and  the 
protection  of  confidentiality  of  individual 
records and accounts; and 
 
(iii)   safety; 
 
(d)  imposed for the protection of national treasures 
of artistic, historic or archaeological value; or 
 
(e)  relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural 
resources if such measures are made effective in 
conjunction  with  restrictions  on  domestic 
production or consumption. 
 
2.   Insofar  as  measures  affecting  the  supply  of  financial 
services are concerned, paragraph 2 (Domestic Regulation) 
of  the  Annex  on  Financial  Services  of  the  General 
38 
 Agreement on Trade in Services in Annex 1B to the WTO 
Agreement shall be incorporated into and form an integral 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
ARTICLE 22 
Security Exceptions 
 
1.      Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)   to require any Party to furnish any information, 
the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its 
essential security interests; or 
 
(b)   to prevent any Party from taking any action which 
it  considers  necessary  for  the  protection  of  its 
essential  security  interests,  including  but  not 
limited to:  
 
(i)   action relating to fissionable and fusionable 
materials or the materials from which they 
are derived; 
 
(ii)  action  taken  in  time  of  war  or  other 
emergency  in  domestic  or  international 
relations;  
 
(iii)   action  relating  to  the  traffic  in  arms, 
ammunition and implements of war and to 
such traffic in other goods and materials as 
is  carried  on  directly  or  indirectly  for  the 
purpose  of  supplying  a  military 
establishment; 
 
(iv)  action taken so as to protect critical public 
infrastructure  including  communication, 
power  and  water  infrastructures  from 
deliberate  attempts  intended  to  disable  or 
degrade such infrastructure; or 
 
39 
 (c)  to  prevent  a  Party  from  taking  any  action  in 
pursuance  of  its  obligations  under  the  United 
Nations  Charter  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
 
2.  Each Party shall inform the other Party to the fullest 
extent possible of measures taken under subparagraphs 1(b) 
and (c) of this Article and of their termination. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require 
a  Party  to  accord  the  benefits  of  this  Agreement  to  an 
investor that is a juridical person of the other Party where a 
Party  adopts  or  maintains  measures  in  any  legislation  or 
regulations which it considers necessary for the protection of 
its essential security interests with respect to a non-Party or 
an  investor  of  a  non-Party  that  would  be  violated  or 
circumvented if the benefits of this Agreement were accorded 
to such  juridical person or to its investments.  
 
4.  Paragraph  3  of  this  Article  shall  be  interpreted  in 
accordance with the understanding of the Parties on Security 
Exceptions  as  set  out  in  Annex  1,  which  shall  form  an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
5.  This Article shall be interpreted in accordance with the 
understanding of the Parties on non-justiciability of Security 
Exceptions  as  set  out  in  Annex  2,  which  shall  form  an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 23 
Joint Committee on Investment 
 
1.  A Joint Committee on Investment shall be established 
within  one  (1)  year  from  the  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement. 
 
2.  The functions of the Joint Committee shall be to: 
 
40 
 (a)  review the implementation and operation of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  submit  a  report  to  the  Parties  on  the 
implementation and operation of this Agreement; 
 
(c)  consider  and  recommend  to  the  Parties  any 
amendments to this Agreement; 
 
(d)  supervise  and  coordinate  the  work  of  all  Sub-
Committees  established  under  this  Agreement; 
and 
 
(e)  carry out other functions as may be agreed by 
the Parties. 
 
3.  The Joint Committee on Investment: 
 
(a)  shall  be  composed  of  representatives  of  the 
Parties; and 
 
(b)  may establish Sub-Committees and delegate its 
responsibilities thereto. 
 
ARTICLE 24 
Communications 
 
Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  to  facilitate 
communications among the Parties on any matter relating to 
this  Agreement.  All  official  communications  in  this  regard 
shall be in the English language. 
 
ARTICLE 25 
Annexes, Footnotes and Schedules 
 
The Annexes, footnotes and Schedules, to this Agreement 
shall constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
41 
 ARTICLE 26 
Amendments 
 
This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by 
the Parties and such amendments shall come into force on 
such date or dates as may be agreed among them. 
 
ARTICLE 27 
Withdrawal and Termination 
 
1.   Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving 
twelve  (12)  months  advance  notice  in  writing  to  the  other 
Parties. 
 
2.   This  Agreement  shall  terminate  if,  pursuant  to 
paragraph 1 of this Article: 
 
(a)   India withdraws; or 
 
(b)   this Agreement is in force for less than four (4) 
ASEAN Member States. 
 
3.   Any other Party may request in writing, consultations 
concerning any matter that would arise from the withdrawal 
within sixty (60) days after the date of receipt of the notice in 
paragraph 1 of this Article. The requested Party shall enter 
into consultations in good faith upon receipt of the request. 
 
ARTICLE 28 
Review 
 
Unless  otherwise  agreed,  the  Parties  shall  undertake  a 
general review of this Agreement with a view to furthering its 
objectives within three (3) years from the date of the entry 
into  force  of  the  Agreement,  and  every  three  (3)  years 
thereafter.  
 
 
42 
 ARTICLE 29 
Depositary 
 
For  the  ASEAN  Member  States,  this  Agreement  shall  be 
deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN who shall 
promptly  furnish  a  certified  copy  thereof  to  each  ASEAN 
Member State. 
 
ARTICLE 30 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  Each Party shall notify the other Parties in writing upon 
completion of its internal requirements16 necessary for entry 
into force of this Agreement. This Agreement shall enter into 
force  on  1  July  2015  for  any  Party  that  has  made  such 
notifications provided that India and at least four (4) ASEAN 
Member States have made such notifications by that date. 
 
2.  If this Agreement does not enter into force on 1 July 
2015 it shall enter into force, for any Party that has made the 
notification referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, sixty (60) 
days  after  the  date  by  which  India  and  at  least  four  (4) 
ASEAN Member States have made the notifications referred 
to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
3.  After the entry into force of this Agreement pursuant to 
paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article, this Agreement shall enter 
into force for any Party sixty (60) days after the date of its 
notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  being  duly 
authorised by their respective Governments, have signed the 
Agreement on Investment under the Framework Agreement 
on  Comprehensive  Economic  Cooperation  between  the 
Association of the Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic 
of India. 
                                                 
16  For greater certainty, the term “internal requirements” may include obtaining 
 
governmental approval or parliamentary approval in accordance with domestic law.
43 
 DONE  at  Nay  Pyi  Taw,  Myanmar,  this  Twelfth  Day  of 
November in the Year Two Thousand and Fourteen, in two 
original copies in the English Language. 
 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam:  For the Republic of India: 
   
   
   
   
LIM JOCK SENG  NIRMALA SITHARAMAN 
Second Minister of Foreign Affairs   Minister of State for 
and Trade  Commerce and Industry   
 
 
 
 
 
For the Kingdom of Cambodia:   
 
 
 
 
SUN CHANTHOL 
Senior Minister and  
Minister of Commerce 
  
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Indonesia:   
 
 
 
 
MUHAMMAD LUTFI 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
44 
 For the Lao People’s Democratic   
Republic:   
 
 
 
 
KHEMMANI PHOLSENA 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
For Malaysia:   
 
 
 
 
MUSTAPA MOHAMED 
Minister of International Trade and 
Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of the Union of   
Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
KAN ZAW 
Union Minister for National Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of the Philippines:   
 
 
 
 
GREGORY L. DOMINGO 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
45 
 For the Republic of Singapore:   
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Kingdom of Thailand:   
 
 
 
 
CHUTIMA BUNYAPRAPHASARA 
Permanent Secretary 
Acting for the Minister of Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:   
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
46 
 Annex 1  
Security Exceptions  
 
The Parties confirm the following understanding with respect 
to interpretation and/or implementation of this Agreement: 
  
(a)   the measures referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 22 
(Security Exceptions) are measures where the intention 
and objective of the Party imposing the measures is for 
the protection of its essential security interests. These 
measures  shall  be  imposed  on  a  non-discriminatory 
basis  and  may  be  found  in  any  of  its  legislation  or 
regulations:  
 
(i)   In  the  case  of  India,  the  applicable  measures 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 22 (Security 
Exceptions)  are  currently  set  out  in  the 
regulations framed under the Foreign Exchange 
Management  Act,1999  (42  of  1999)  (FEMA). 
India  shall,  upon  request  by  another  Party, 
provide information on the measures concerned;   
 
(ii)   In the case of ASEAN Member States, they do 
not  presently  adopt  or  maintain  any  unilateral 
measures  against  a  non-Party  or  investor  of  a 
non-Party in its laws or regulations. This shall not 
preclude  any  ASEAN  Member  State  from 
adopting similar measures against any non-Party 
or investor of a non-Party;  
 
(b)   the measures which a Party adopts or maintains with 
respect to a non-Party or investors of a non-Party shall 
not impinge upon  another Party's sovereign rights to 
conduct its foreign policy nor shall it prohibit juridical 
persons of foreign investors  that are subject to such 
measures  from  establishing  themselves  in    another 
Party. 
  
 
47 
 Annex 2 
Non-Justiciability of Security Exceptions  
 
With respect to the interpretation and/or implementation of 
this Agreement, the Parties confirm their understanding that 
disputes  submitted  to  arbitration  pursuant  to  paragraphs  7 
and 8 of Article 20 (Investment Disputes between a Party 
and  an  Investor),  where  the  disputing  Party  asserts  as  a 
defence that the measure alleged to be a breach is within the 
scope  of  a  security  exception  as  set  out  in  Article  22 
(Security  Exceptions),  any  decision  of  the  disputing  Party 
taken on such security considerations shall be non-justiciable 
in that it shall not be open to any arbitral tribunal to review 
the  merits  of  any  such  decision,  even  where  the  arbitral 
proceedings  concern  an  assessment  of  any  claim  for 
damages  and/or  compensation,  or  an  adjudication  of  any 
other issues referred to the tribunal. 
 
 
48 
 