 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT  ON  DISPUTE  SETTLEMENT  MECHANISM 
UNDER  THE  FRAMEWORK  AGREEMENT  ON 
COMPREHENSIVE  ECONOMIC  COOPERATION 
BETWEEN  THE ASSOCIATION  OF  SOUTHEAST ASIAN 
NATIONS AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia  (Cambodia),  the  Republic  of  Indonesia 
(Indonesia),  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  (Lao 
PDR),  Malaysia,  the  Union  of  Myanmar  (Myanmar),  the 
Republic of the Philippines (the Philippines), the Republic of 
Singapore (Singapore), the Kingdom of Thailand (Thailand) 
and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (Viet Nam), Member 
States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the 
Government of the Republic of India (India), 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic Cooperation between the Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  and  the  Republic  of  India,  signed  in  Bali, 
Indonesia on 8 October 2003, as amended by the Protocol to 
Amend  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive 
Economic Cooperation between the Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  and  the  Republic  of  India  (the  Protocol), 
signed in Bangkok on 13 August 2009; and 
 
FURTHER  RECALLING  Article  11  of  the  Framework 
Agreement as amended by Article 5 of the Protocol, which 
provides  for  the  establishment  of  the  dispute  settlement 
procedures and mechanism for the Framework Agreement 
and any other agreement to be concluded thereunder, 
  
 
 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For  the  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  unless  the  context 
otherwise requires: 
 
(a)  ASEAN  means  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  which  comprises  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam and 
whose  members  are  referred  to  in  this  Agreement 
collectively  as  the  ASEAN  Member  States  and 
individually as an ASEAN Member State; 
 
(b)  chair  means  the  member  of  an  arbitral  panel  who 
serves as the chair of the arbitral panel; 
 
(c)  Complaining  Party  means  any  Party  that  requests 
consultations under paragraph 1 of Article 4; 
 
(d)  covered agreements means: 
 
(i)  the Framework Agreement; 
 
(ii)  the  Agreement  on  Trade  in  Goods  under  the 
Framework Agreement; 
 
(iii)  this Agreement; and 
 
(iv)  any  agreement  to  be  concluded  among  the 
Parties pursuant to the relevant provisions of the 
Framework  Agreement  unless  provided 
otherwise therein; 
 
(e)  days means calendar days, including weekends and 
holidays; 
2 
  
 
 
 
(f)  dispute  arising  under  the  covered  agreements 
means a complaint made by a Party concerning any 
measure  affecting  the  operation,  implementation  or 
application  of  the  covered  agreements  whereby  any 
benefit  accruing  to  the  Complaining  Party  under  the 
covered agreements is being nullified or impaired, or 
the  attainment  of  any  objective  of  the  covered 
agreements is being impeded as a result of: 
 
(i)  a measure of the Party Complained Against is in 
conflict  with  its  obligations  under  the  covered 
agreements; or 
 
(ii)  the  failure  of  the  Party  Complained Against  to 
carry  out  its  obligations  under  the  covered 
agreements1; 
 
(g)  Framework  Agreement  means  the  Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation 
between  the Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations 
and the Republic of India (as amended); 
 
(h)  Parties  means  ASEAN  Member  States  and  India 
collectively; 
 
(i)  parties to a dispute, or parties to the dispute means 
both the Complaining Party and the Party Complained 
Against; 
 
(j)  Party means an ASEAN Member State or India; 
 
(k)  Party Complained Against means any Party to which 
the request for consultations is made under paragraph 
1 of Article 4; 
 
                                             
1 Non-violation disputes are not permitted under this Agreement. 
3 
  
 
 
(l)  Third  Party  means  a  Party  which  has  a  substantial 
interest  in  a  dispute  before  a  panel,  other  than  the 
parties  to  a  dispute,  that  delivers  a  written  notice  in 
accordance with Article 8; and 
 
(m)  WTO means the World Trade Organization. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Coverage and Application 
 
1.  This  Agreement  shall  apply  with  respect  to  the 
avoidance or settlement of all disputes arising between the 
Parties  under  the  covered  agreements.  Unless  otherwise 
provided in this Agreement or any other covered agreement, 
this  Agreement  shall  apply  to  all  disputes  between  the 
Parties. 
 
2.  The rules and procedures of this Agreement shall apply 
subject  to  special  or  additional  rules  and  procedures  on 
dispute  settlement,  if  any,  contained  in  the  other  covered 
agreements. To the extent that there is a conflict between the 
rules and procedures of this Agreement and such special or 
additional  rules  and  procedures  on  dispute  settlement 
contained in a covered agreement, the special or additional 
rules and procedures shall prevail. In disputes involving rules 
and procedures under more than one covered agreement, if 
there is a conflict between special and additional rules and 
procedures  of  such  covered  agreements,  the  chair  in 
consultation with the parties to the dispute, shall determine 
the  rules  and  procedures  to  be  followed  for  that  dispute 
within  ten  (10)  days  after  a  request  by  any  party  to  the 
dispute. 
 
3.  The provisions of this Agreement may be invoked in 
respect of measures affecting the operation of any covered 
agreement taken within a Party by: 
 
(a)  central,  regional  or  local  governments  or 
authorities; or 
4 
  
 
 
 
(b)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of 
powers delegated by central, regional or local 
governments or authorities. 
 
4.  Subject to paragraph 5, nothing in this Agreement shall 
prejudice any right of the Parties to have recourse to dispute 
settlement  procedures  available  under  any  other  treaty  to 
which they are parties. 
 
5.  Once  dispute  settlement  proceedings  have  been 
initiated under this Agreement or under any other treaty to 
which  the  parties  to  a  dispute  are  parties  concerning  a 
particular right or obligation of such Parties arising under the 
covered agreements and that other treaty, the forum selected 
by the Complaining Party shall be used to the exclusion of 
any other for such dispute. 
 
6.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraphs  4  and  5,  the 
Complaining Party shall be deemed to have selected a forum 
when it has requested the establishment of, or referred a 
dispute  to,  an  arbitral  panel  in  accordance  with  this 
Agreement  or  any  other  treaty  to  which  the  parties  to  a 
dispute are parties. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Liaison Office 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Agreement, each Party shall: 
 
(a)  designate an office that shall be responsible for 
all matters referred to in this Agreement; 
 
(b)  be responsible for the operation and costs of its 
designated office; and 
 
(c)  notify  the  other  Parties  of  the  location  and 
address of its designated office within 30 days 
5 
  
 
 
after the completion of its internal procedures for 
the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
2.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  the 
submission  of  any  request,  notice  or  any  other  document 
under this Agreement to the designated office of any Party 
shall be deemed to be the submission of that request, notice 
or any other document under this Agreement to that Party. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Consultations 
 
1.  Any  Party  may  request  consultations  with  any  other 
Party with respect to any dispute arising under the covered 
agreements. The Party Complained Against shall accord due 
consideration  and  adequate  opportunity  for  consultations 
regarding  a  request  for  consultations  made  by  the 
Complaining Party. 
 
2.  Any  request  for  consultations  shall  be  submitted  in 
writing, and include the specific measures at issue, and the 
factual and legal basis (including the provisions of any of the 
covered agreements alleged to have been breached and any 
other relevant provisions) of the complaint. The Complaining 
Party shall send the request to the Party Complained Against 
and  the  rest  of  the  Parties.  Upon  receipt,  the  Party 
Complained Against shall promptly acknowledge receipt of 
such request to the Complaining Party and the rest of the 
Parties at the same time. 
 
3.  If  a  request  for  consultations  is  made,  the  Party 
Complained Against shall reply to the request within ten (10) 
days  after  the  date  of  its  receipt  and  shall  enter  into 
consultations in good faith within a period of not more than 
30 days after the date of receipt of the request, with a view to 
reaching  a  mutually  satisfactory  solution.  If  the  Party 
Complained Against does not respond within the aforesaid 
ten (10) days, or does not enter into consultations within the 
aforesaid 30 days, then the Complaining Party may proceed 
6 
  
 
 
directly to request for the establishment of an arbitral panel 
under Article 6. 
 
4.  The parties to a dispute shall make every effort in good 
faith to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter 
through  consultations  under  this  Article.  To  this  end,  the 
parties to the dispute shall: 
 
(a)  provide  sufficient  information  as  may  be 
reasonably available to enable a full examination 
of how the measure might affect the operation of 
the covered agreement; and 
 
(b)  treat as confidential any information exchanged 
in  the  course  of  consultations  which  the  other 
party  to  the  dispute  has  designated  as 
confidential. 
 
5.  Consultations  shall  be  confidential  and  without 
prejudice to the rights of any Party in any further proceedings 
under this Agreement or other proceedings before a forum 
selected  by  the  Parties.  The  parties  to  the  dispute  shall 
inform  the  rest  of  the  Parties  the  outcome  of  the 
consultations. 
 
6.  In  cases  of  urgency,  including  those  which  concern 
perishable goods, the parties to the dispute shall enter into 
consultations within a period of not more than ten (10) days 
after the date of receipt by the Party Complained Against of 
the request. If the Party Complained Against does not enter 
into  consultations  within  ten  (10)  days  after  the  date  of 
receipt of the consultations request, the Complaining Party 
may proceed directly to request for the establishment of an 
arbitral panel under Article 6. 
 
7.  In  cases  of  urgency,  including  those  which  concern 
perishable  goods,  the  parties  to  the  dispute  and  arbitral 
panels shall make every effort to accelerate the proceedings 
to the greatest extent possible. 
7 
  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation 
 
1.  Good  offices,  conciliation  and  mediation  are 
procedures that are undertaken voluntarily if the parties to 
the dispute so agree. 
 
2.  Good  offices,  conciliation  or  mediation  may  be 
requested at any time by any party to a dispute. They may 
begin  and  be  terminated  at  any  time  by  any  party  to  a 
dispute. 
 
3.  If  the  parties  to  a  dispute  agree,  good  offices, 
conciliation or mediation proceedings may continue before 
any person or body as may be agreed by the parties to the 
dispute, while the dispute proceeds for resolution before an 
arbitral panel established under Article 6. 
 
4.  All proceedings involving good offices, conciliation or 
mediation, and in particular, positions taken by the parties to 
a  dispute  during  these  proceedings,  shall  be  confidential, 
and without prejudice to the rights of any Party in any further 
proceedings under this Agreement or before any other forum 
selected by the parties to the dispute. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Establishment of Arbitral Panels 
 
1.  If  the  consultations  under  Article  4  fail  to  settle  a 
dispute within 60 days after the date of receipt of the request 
for consultations or within 20 days after such date in cases of 
urgency,  including  those  which  concern  perishable  goods, 
the Complaining Party may make a written request to the 
Party Complained Against to establish an arbitral panel. A 
copy of this request shall also be communicated to the rest 
of the Parties. 
8 
  
 
 
 
2.  A  request  for  the  establishment  of  an  arbitral  panel 
shall  give  the  reasons  for  the  request,  including  the 
identification of: 
 
(a)  the specific measure(s) at issue; and 
 
(b)  the  factual  and  legal  basis  (including  the 
provisions  of  any  of  the  covered  agreements 
alleged  to  have  been  breached  and  any  other 
relevant provisions) for the complaint sufficient to 
present the problem clearly. 
 
3.  Upon receipt of the request, an arbitral panel shall be 
established. The date of establishment of the arbitral panel 
shall  be  the  date  on  which  the  chair  is  appointed  under 
paragraph 3 of Article 7 or the 30th day after the date of 
receipt of the request under this Article where only a sole 
arbitrator is available. 
 
4.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties to the dispute, 
an  arbitral  panel  shall  be  established  and  perform  its 
functions in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement 
and the Annex on the Rules and Procedures for the Arbitral 
Panel Proceedings. 
 
5.  Where more than one Complaining Party requests the 
establishment of an arbitral panel related to the same matter, 
a single arbitral panel may, wherever feasible, be established 
by the parties to the dispute to examine the matter taking into 
account their respective rights. 
 
6.  The single arbitral panel shall organise its examination 
and  present  its  findings  in  such  a  manner  that  the  rights 
which  the  parties  to  the  dispute  would  have  enjoyed  had 
separate arbitral panels examined the complaints are in no 
way impaired. If one of the parties to the dispute so requests, 
the arbitral panel may submit separate reports on the dispute 
concerned,  if  the  timeframe  for  writing  such  reports  so 
9 
  
 
 
permit. The  written  submissions  by  a  party  to  the  dispute 
shall be made available to the other parties to the dispute, 
and  each  party  to  the  dispute  shall  have  the  right  to  be 
present  when  any  other  party  to  the  dispute  presents  its 
views to the arbitral panel. 
 
7.  Where more than one arbitral panel is established to 
examine the same matter, to the greatest extent possible, the 
same  persons  shall  be  appointed  by  the  parties  to  the 
disputes to serve on each of the separate arbitral panels and 
the timetable for the proceedings of each separate arbitral 
panel shall be harmonised. 
 
8.  An  arbitral  panel  shall  have  the  following  terms  of 
reference unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise 
within ten (10) days from the date of the establishment of an 
arbitral panel: 
 
"To  examine,  in  the  light  of  the  relevant 
provisions in (name of the covered agreement(s) 
cited by the parties to  the dispute), the matter 
referred to in the request for the establishment of 
an arbitral panel pursuant to Article 6, to make 
findings,  determinations,  recommendations  and 
suggestions,  if  any,  and  to  present  the  written 
reports referred to in Articles 12 and 13.” 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Composition of Arbitral Panel 
 
1.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or agreed 
by the parties to the dispute, an arbitral panel shall consist of 
three (3) arbitrators. 
 
2.  Each  party  to  the  dispute  shall  appoint  one  (1) 
arbitrator  within  30  days  after  the  date  of  receipt  of  the 
request under Article 6. If any party to the dispute fails to 
appoint an arbitrator within such period, then the arbitrator 
appointed by the other party to the dispute shall act as the 
10 
  
 
 
sole arbitrator. 
 
3.  The parties to the dispute shall endeavour to agree on 
the  third  arbitrator  within  30  days  after  the  date  of 
appointment  of  the  second  arbitrator.  The  third  arbitrator 
shall  serve  as  the  chair.  If  the  parties  to  the  dispute  are 
unable to agree on the chair within the aforesaid 30 days, the 
chair shall be jointly appointed, by the arbitrators who have 
been appointed under paragraph 2, within a further period of 
30 days. If the third arbitrator has not been appointed within 
30 days by the arbitrators appointed under paragraph 2, the 
parties to the dispute shall consult each other in order to 
jointly appoint the chair within a further period of 30 days. 
 
4.  Any  person  appointed  as  an  arbitrator  shall  have 
expertise  or  experience  in  law,  international  trade,  other 
matters covered by the covered agreements or the resolution 
of disputes arising under international trade agreements. An 
arbitrator shall be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, 
reliability,  sound  judgment  and  independence  and  shall 
conduct himself or herself on the same basis throughout the 
course  of  the  arbitral  panel  proceedings.  If  a  party  to  the 
dispute believes that an arbitrator is in violation of the basis 
stated above, the parties to the dispute shall consult and if 
they  agree,  the  arbitrator  shall  be  removed  and  a  new 
arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with this Article. 
Additionally, the chair shall not be a national of any party to 
the  dispute  and  shall  not  have  his  or  her  usual  place  of 
residence in the territory of, nor be employed by, any party to 
the dispute nor have dealt with the referred matter in any 
capacity, unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise. 
 
5.  If an arbitrator appointed under this Article resigns or 
becomes  unable  to  act,  a  successor  arbitrator  shall  be 
appointed  in  the  same  manner  as  prescribed  for  the 
appointment  of  the  original  arbitrator.  The  successor 
arbitrator shall have all the powers and duties of the original 
arbitrator. The work of the arbitral panel shall be suspended 
until the successor arbitrator is appointed. 
11 
  
 
 
 
6.  If  the  sole  arbitrator  or  the  chair  appointed  in 
accordance with paragraph 2 or 3 is replaced or succeeded, 
any hearings held previously by the arbitral panel shall be 
repeated. 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Third Parties 
 
1.  If  the  Party  Complained  Against  agrees,  any  Party, 
having a substantial interest in a dispute before an arbitral 
panel and having notified its interest in writing to the parties 
to such a dispute and the rest of the Parties, shall have an 
opportunity to make written submissions to the arbitral panel. 
These submissions shall also be given to the parties to the 
dispute  and  may  be  reflected  in  the  report  of  the  arbitral 
panel. 
 
2.  A  Third  Party  shall  receive  the  submissions  of  the 
parties to the dispute at the first meeting of the arbitral panel. 
 
3.  If  a  Third  Party  considers  that  a  measure  that  is 
already the subject of an arbitral panel proceedings nullifies 
or  impairs  benefits  accruing  to  it  under  the  covered 
agreements,  such  Party  may  have  recourse  to  normal 
dispute settlement procedures under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.  Where  the  parties  to  the  dispute  agree,  the  arbitral 
panel  may  suspend  its  work  at  any  time  for  a  period  not 
exceeding  12  months  from  the  date  of  such  agreement. 
Upon  the  request  of  any  party  to  the  dispute,  the  arbitral 
panel proceedings shall be resumed after such suspension. 
If the work of the arbitral panel has been suspended for more 
than 12 months, the authority of the arbitral panel shall lapse 
unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree. 
 
12 
  
 
 
2.  The parties to the dispute may agree to terminate the 
proceedings  of  an  arbitral  panel  at  any  time  before  the 
presentation of the final report to them, in the event that a 
mutually satisfactory solution to the dispute has been found. 
 
3.  Before the arbitral panel makes its decision, it may, at 
any stage of the proceedings, propose to the parties to the 
dispute that the dispute be settled amicably. 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Functions of Arbitral Panels 
 
An arbitral panel shall make an objective assessment of the 
matter before it, including an examination of the facts of the 
case and the applicability of and conformity with the relevant 
covered  agreements.  The  arbitral  panel  shall  consult 
regularly with the parties to the dispute and provide them 
adequate  opportunities  for  the  development  of  a  mutually 
satisfactory  resolution.  Where  the  arbitral  panel  concludes 
that a measure is in conflict with a provision of any of the 
covered  agreements,  it  shall  recommend  that  the  Party 
Complained Against bring the measure into conformity with 
that provision. In addition to its recommendations, the arbitral 
panel  may  suggest  ways  by  which  the  Party  Complained 
Against could implement its recommendations. The arbitral 
panel shall interpret the relevant provisions of the covered 
agreements  in  accordance  with  customary  rules  of 
interpretation of public international law. The arbitral panel 
cannot add to or diminish the rights and obligations under the 
covered agreements in its findings and recommendations. 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Proceedings of Arbitral Panels 
 
1.  Unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise, the 
rules and procedures set out in the Annex on the Rules and 
Procedures for the Arbitral Panel Proceedings shall apply. 
The  arbitral  panel  may,  after  consulting  the  parties  to  the 
dispute,  adopt  additional  rules  and  procedures  not 
13 
  
 
 
inconsistent  with  the  provisions  in  this  Agreement  or  the 
Annex on the Rules and Procedures for the Arbitral Panel 
Proceedings. 
 
2.  In the proceedings of the arbitral panel, each party to 
the dispute shall have: 
 
(a)  a  right  to  at  least  one  (1)  hearing  before  the 
arbitral panel; 
 
(b)  an  opportunity  to  provide  initial  and  rebuttal 
submissions; 
 
(c)  a reasonable opportunity to submit comments on 
the  interim  report  presented  pursuant  to Article 
12; and 
 
(d)  a  right  to  the  protection  of  confidential 
information. 
 
3.  An arbitral panel shall meet in closed sessions. The 
parties to the dispute shall be present at the meetings only 
when invited by the arbitral panel to appear before it. 
 
ARTICLE 12 
Interim Report 
 
1.  Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
arbitral panel shall base its report on the relevant provisions 
of  the  covered  agreements,  on  the  submissions  and 
arguments  of  the  parties  to  the  dispute,  and  on  any 
information before it, pursuant to Article 14. 
 
2.  Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
arbitral  panel  shall,  within  90  days  from  the  date  of  its 
establishment, present to the parties to the dispute an interim 
report containing: 
14 
  
 
 
 
(a)  a descriptive section summarising the arguments 
of the parties to the dispute; 
 
(b)  its findings on the facts of the case and on the 
applicability  of  the  provisions  of  the  covered 
agreements; 
 
(c)  its  determinations  on  the  consistency  of  the 
measure at issue with the covered agreements; 
and 
 
(d)  its  determinations  on  whether  the  Party 
Complained Against has otherwise failed to carry 
out its obligations under the covered agreements. 
 
3.  When  the  arbitral  panel  considers  that  it  cannot 
present its interim report within the period of time referred to 
in paragraph 2, it shall inform the parties to the dispute in 
writing of the reasons for the delay together with the estimate 
of the period within which it will issue its interim report. 
 
4.  The  parties  to  the  dispute  may  submit  written 
comments  on  the  interim  report  within  14  days  of  its 
presentation. The arbitral panel shall include in its final report 
a discussion on the comments of the parties to the dispute. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Final Report 
 
1.  The  arbitral  panel  shall  present  a  final  report  to  the 
parties to the dispute, within 30 days of presentation of the 
interim report. 
 
2.  The arbitral panel shall present to the parties to the 
dispute its final report within 120 days from the date of its 
establishment. In cases of urgency, including those relating 
to perishable goods, the arbitral panel shall aim to present its 
final report to the parties to the dispute within 90 days from 
15 
  
 
 
the  date  of  its  establishment.  When  the  arbitral  panel 
considers  that  it  cannot  present  its  final  report  within  120 
days, or within 90 days in cases of urgency, it shall inform 
the parties to the dispute in writing of the reasons for the 
delay together with an estimate of the period within which it 
will  present  its  report.  However,  the  period  between  the 
establishment of an arbitral panel and the presentation of the 
final report to parties to the dispute shall not exceed 180 
days or 120 days in the case of urgency, unless the parties 
to the dispute otherwise agree. 
 
3.  The final report of an arbitral panel shall be final and 
binding on the parties to the dispute. 
 
4.  The  final  report  of  the  arbitral  panel  shall  be  made 
publicly available within ten (10) days of its presentation to 
the parties to the dispute. 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Information and Technical Advice 
 
1.  Upon the request of a party to the dispute or on its own 
initiative,  the  arbitral  panel  may  seek  information  and 
technical  advice  from  any  person  or  body  that  it  deems 
appropriate, provided that the parties to the dispute so agree 
and subject to such terms and conditions as the parties to 
the dispute may agree. Any information and technical advice 
so  obtained  shall  be  made  available  to  the  parties  to  the 
dispute. 
 
2.  With respect to factual issues concerning a scientific or 
other technical matters raised by a party to the dispute, the 
arbitral panel may request advisory reports in writing from an 
expert or experts. The arbitral panel may, at the request of a 
party  to  the  dispute  or  on  its  own  initiative,  select,  after 
consultations  with  the  parties  to  the  dispute,  scientific  or 
technical  experts  who  shall  assist  the  arbitral  panel 
throughout its proceedings, but who shall not have the right 
to vote in respect of any decision to be made by the arbitral 
16 
  
 
 
panel. 
 
ARTICLE 15 
Implementation of Final Report 
 
1.  The Party Complained Against shall promptly comply 
with the award of the arbitral panel issued pursuant to Article 
13. 
 
2.  If, in its final report, the arbitral panel determines that 
the  Party  Complained  Against  has  not  conformed  to  its 
obligations under the relevant covered agreements, it shall 
recommend  that  the  Party  Complained  Against  bring  the 
measure into conformity with the covered agreements and 
may suggest ways in which the Party Complained Against 
could implement the recommendations. 
 
3.  The  Party  Complained Against  shall,  within  20  days 
after  the  date  of  issuance  of  the  award,  notify  the 
Complaining  Party  of  the  period  of  time  required  to 
implement  the  award.  If  such  notified  period  of  time  is 
unacceptable, the Complaining Party may refer the matter to 
an arbitral panel, which shall then determine the reasonable 
implementation  period.  The  arbitral  panel  shall  inform  the 
parties to the dispute of its determination within 30 days after 
the date of the referral of the matter to it. 
 
4.  If  the  Party  Complained  Against  considers  it 
impracticable  to  comply  with  the  award  within  the 
implementation period as determined pursuant to paragraph 
3, it shall, not later than the expiry of that implementation 
period, enter into consultations with the Complaining Party, 
with  a  view  to  developing  mutually  satisfactory 
compensation.  If  no  satisfactory  compensation  has  been 
agreed  within  20  days  after  the  date  of  expiry  of  that 
implementation period, the Complaining Party may request 
an  arbitral  panel  to  determine  the  appropriate  level  of 
suspension  of  concessions  or  benefits  under  the  covered 
agreements in respect of the Party Complained Against. 
17 
  
 
 
 
5.  If  the  Complaining  Party  considers  that  the  Party 
Complained  Against  has  failed  to  comply  with  the  award 
within the implementation period as determined pursuant to 
paragraph 3, the Complaining Party may refer the matter to 
an arbitral panel to confirm the failure and to determine the 
appropriate level of suspension of concessions or benefits 
under  the  covered  agreements  in  respect  of  the  Party 
Complained Against. 
 
6.  The arbitral panel established under this Article shall, 
wherever possible, have as its arbitrators, the arbitrators of 
the  original  arbitral  panel.  If  this  is  not  possible,  then  the 
arbitrators of such arbitral panel shall be appointed pursuant 
to paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 7. 
 
7.  Unless the parties to the dispute agree to a different 
period, the arbitral panel established under paragraphs 4 and 
5 shall issue its award within 60 days after the date when the 
matter is referred to it. 
 
8.  The award of the arbitral panel established under this 
Article shall be binding on all the parties to the dispute. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Compensation and the Suspension of Concessions or 
Benefits 
 
1.  Compensation and the suspension of concessions or 
benefits  under  the  covered  agreements  are  temporary 
measures  available  in  the  event  that  the  award  is  not 
implemented within a reasonable period of time. However, 
neither compensation nor the suspension of concessions or 
benefits under the covered agreements is preferred to full 
implementation  of  the  award  to  bring  a  measure  into 
conformity with the covered agreements. Compensation, if 
granted, shall be consistent with the covered agreements. 
18 
  
 
 
 
2.  The  suspension  of  concessions  or  benefits  under 
paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 15 may only be implemented 
after  the  Complaining  Party  notifies  the  Party  Complained 
Against and the rest of the Parties of its intention to suspend 
the concessions or benefits under the covered agreements in 
respect  of  the  Party  Complained  Against.  The  Party 
Complained  Against  and  the  rest  of  the  Parties  shall  be 
informed of the commencement of the suspension and which 
concessions  or  benefits  under  the  covered  agreements 
would be suspended. 
 
3.  In considering what concessions or benefits under the 
covered agreements are to be suspended under paragraphs 
4 and 5 of Article 15, the Complaining Party shall consider 
that such suspension shall be: 
 
(a)  temporary, and be discontinued when the parties 
to  the  dispute  reach  a  mutually  satisfactory 
resolution or where compliance with the award is 
effected; 
 
(b)  restricted  to  the  same  level  of  nullification  or 
impairment  that  is  attributable  to  the  failure  to 
comply with the award; and 
 
(c)  restricted to the same sector or sectors as those 
in  which  the  arbitral  panel  has  found  the 
nullification or impairment. If it is not practicable 
or  effective  to  suspend  the  concessions  or 
benefits  in  such  sector  or  sectors,  the 
Complaining Party may suspend concessions or 
benefits  in  other  sectors  of  the  covered 
agreements. 
 
4.  If  the  Party  Complained  Against  considers  that  the 
suspension  of  concessions  or  benefits  under  the  covered 
agreements by the Complaining Party is inconsistent with the 
provisions  of  paragraph  4  of  Article  15,  it  may  refer  the 
19 
  
 
 
matter to an arbitral panel. For the purposes of establishing 
the arbitral panel under this Article, paragraph 6 of Article 15 
shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
5.  Unless the parties to the dispute agree to a different 
period, the arbitral panel established under this Article shall 
issue its award within 45 days after the date when the matter 
is referred to it. Such award shall be binding on all the parties 
to the dispute. 
 
ARTICLE 17 
Official Language 
 
1.  All  proceedings  pursuant  to  this Agreement  shall  be 
conducted in the English language. 
 
2.  Any document submitted for use in any proceedings 
pursuant to this Agreement shall be in the English language. 
If any original document is not in the English language, the 
Party  submitting  such  document  shall  provide  an  English 
translation of that document. 
 
ARTICLE 18 
Expenses 
 
1.  Each  party  to  a  dispute  shall  bear  the  costs  of  its 
appointed arbitrator and its own expenses and legal costs. 
 
2.  Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
costs  of  the  chair  or  sole  arbitrator  and  other  expenses 
associated with the conduct of its proceedings shall be borne 
in equal parts by the parties to a dispute. 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Annex 
 
The  Annex  on  the  Rules  and  Procedures  for  the  Arbitral 
Panel  Proceedings  shall  form  an  integral  part  of  this 
Agreement. 
20 
  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Amendments 
 
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through 
amendments agreed upon in writing by the Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 21 
Depositary 
 
For  the  ASEAN  Member  States,  this  Agreement  shall  be 
deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN who shall 
promptly  furnish  a  certified  copy  thereof  to  each  ASEAN 
Member State. 
 
ARTICLE 22 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  notify  each  other  in  writing  upon 
completion of their internal requirements2 necessary for entry 
into force of this Agreement. This Agreement shall enter into 
force  on  the  date  by  which  such  notifications  have  been 
made by India and at least one (1) ASEAN Member State. 
 
2.  Where  a  Party  is  unable  to  complete  its  internal 
requirements for the entry into force of this Agreement by 1 
June  2010,  this Agreement  shall  enter  into  force  for  that 
Party upon the date of notification of the completion of its 
internal requirements. 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  being  duly 
authorised  by  their  respective  Governments,  have  signed 
this Agreement. 
 
 
                                             
2 For greater certainty, the term “internal requirements” may include obtaining 
governmental approvals or parliamentary approval in accordance with domestic law. 
21 
  
 
 
DONE  at  Bangkok, Thailand  this  thirteenth  day  of August 
2009 in two (2) originals in the English language. 
 
 
 
For the Government of  For the Government of the 
Brunei Darussalam:  Republic of India: 
   
   
   
   
   
LIM JOCK SENG  ANAND SHARMA 
Second Minister for Foreign  Minister of Commerce and 
Affairs and Trade  Industry 
 
   
For the Royal Government of 
Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister 
of Commerce 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
22 
  
 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic: 
 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and 
Commerce 
 
   
For the Government of 
Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
 
MUSTAPA MOHAMED  
Minister of International 
Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
 
   
23 
  
 
 
For the Government of the 
Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and 
Industry 
 
For the Government of the   
Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and 
Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
 
PORNTIVA NAKASAI 
Minister of Commerce 
  
 
24 
  
 
 
 
For the Government of the   
Socialist Republic of Viet 
Nam: 
 
 
 
 
 
NGUYEN CAM TU 
Vice Minister of Industry and 
Trade 
 
 
25 
  
 
 
 
ANNEX 
RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE ARBITRAL PANEL 
PROCEEDINGS 
 
 
Application 
 
1.  These Rules shall apply to arbitral panel proceedings 
under  this  Agreement  unless  the  parties  to  the  dispute 
otherwise agree. 
 
2.  The arbitral panel shall address the relevant provisions 
in the covered agreements cited by the parties to the dispute. 
 
3.  Following the consideration of submissions, arguments 
and any information made pursuant to Article 14, the arbitral 
panel  shall  present  an  interim  report  to  the  parties  to  the 
dispute. 
 
Written Submissions and Other Documents 
 
4.  Each party to the dispute shall deliver at least four (4) 
copies of its written submissions to the arbitral panel and a 
copy to the other party to the dispute. 
 
5.  Each party to the dispute may deliver a copy of any 
request, notice, written submission or other document(s) to 
the other party to the dispute by facsimile, e-mail or other 
electronic means. 
 
6.  A party to the dispute may at any time correct minor 
errors of clerical nature in any of its request, notice, written 
submission or other document(s) related to the arbitral panel 
proceedings by delivering a new document clearly indicating 
the changes. 
 
 
 
26 
  
 
 
Operation of Arbitral Panels 
 
7.  The  chair  shall  preside  over  all  the  meetings  of  the 
arbitral panel. An arbitral panel may delegate to the chair 
authority to decide administrative and procedural matters. 
 
8.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  these  Rules,  the 
arbitral  panel  may  conduct  its  business  by  any  means, 
including  telephone,  facsimile,  e-mail  or  other  electronic 
means. 
 
9.  Only arbitrators may take part in the deliberations of 
the  arbitral  panel.  The  arbitral  panel  may,  however,  in 
consultation  with  the  parties  to  the  dispute,  retain  such 
number  of  assistants,  interpreters  or  translators,  or 
designated  note  takers  as  may  be  required  for  the 
proceedings  and  permit  them  to  be  present  during  such 
deliberations. The arbitrators and the persons retained by the 
arbitral panel shall maintain the confidentiality of the arbitral 
panel proceedings. 
 
10.  An arbitral panel may, in consultation with the parties to 
the dispute, modify any time period applicable to the arbitral 
panel  proceedings  and  make  such  other  procedural  or 
administrative  adjustments  as  may  be  required  in  the 
proceedings. After consulting the parties to the dispute, the 
chair  shall,  within  15  days  after  the  establishment  of  the 
arbitral panel, fix the timetable for the arbitral panel process. 
In determining the timetable, the arbitral panel shall provide 
sufficient time for the parties to the dispute to prepare their 
respective submissions. The arbitral panel may set precise 
deadlines  for  written  submissions  by  the  parties  to  the 
dispute and they shall respect those deadlines. 
 
11.  The venue for the arbitral panel proceedings shall be 
decided  by  mutual  agreement  between  the  parties  to  the 
dispute. If there is no agreement, the venue shall alternate 
between the parties to the dispute with the first session to be 
held in the territory of the Party Complained Against. 
27 
  
 
 
 
12.  All Third Parties which have notified their interest in the 
dispute shall be invited in writing to present their views only 
during the first session of the arbitral panel proceedings set 
aside for that purpose. All such Third Parties may be present 
during the entirety of this session. 
 
13.  The interim and final reports of the arbitral panel shall 
be drafted without the presence of the parties to the dispute. 
The  arbitral  panel  shall  make  its  decisions  by  consensus. 
Where the arbitral panel is unable to reach a consensus, it 
may  make  its  decisions  by  a  majority  vote.  Opinions 
expressed  in  the  report  by  individual  arbitrators  shall  be 
anonymous. 
 
Availability of Information 
 
14.  The  deliberations  of  the  arbitral  panel  and  the 
documents submitted to it shall be kept confidential. No party 
to the dispute shall be precluded from disclosing statements 
of its own positions to the public. The parties to the dispute 
shall treat as confidential information submitted by the other 
party  to  the  dispute  which  that  party  has  designated  as 
confidential.  Where  a  party  to  the  dispute  submits  a 
confidential version of its written submissions to the arbitral 
panel, it shall also, upon request of the other party to the 
dispute,  provide  a  non-confidential  summary  of  the 
information contained in its submissions. 
 
Record of Expenses 
 
15.  The  arbitral  panel  shall  keep a record and render a 
final account of all general expenses incurred in connection 
with the proceedings, including those paid to their assistants, 
designated  note  takers  or  other  individuals  that  it  retains 
pursuant to paragraph 9. 
 
 
28 
 