 
 
 
AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES UNDER  
THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON  
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION  
BETWEEN THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN 
NATIONS AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The 
Governments 
of 
Brunei 
Darussalam 
(Brunei 
Darussalam), the Kingdom of Cambodia (Cambodia), the 
Republic of Indonesia (Indonesia), the Lao People's 
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), Malaysia, the Republic of 
the Union of Myanmar (Myanmar), the Republic of the 
Philippines 
(Philippines), 
the 
Republic 
of 
Singapore 
(Singapore), the Kingdom of Thailand (Thailand) and the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (Viet Nam), Member States of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (collectively, 
“ASEAN” or “ASEAN Member States”, or individually, 
“ASEAN Member State”), and the Republic of India (India); 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic 
Cooperation 
between 
the 
Association 
of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of India (“the 
Framework 
Agreement”) 
signed 
by 
the 
Heads 
of 
Government/State of ASEAN Member States and India in 
Bali, Indonesia on the 8th day of October 2003 and the 
Protocol 
to 
Amend 
the 
Framework 
Agreement 
on 
Comprehensive 
Economic 
Cooperation 
between 
the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of 
India, signed in Bangkok, Thailand on the 13th day of August 
2009; 
 
2 
RECALLING that Article 4 of the Framework Agreement 
calls on ASEAN and India to progressively liberalise and 
eliminate substantially all discrimination and/or prohibition of 
new or more discriminatory measures with respect to trade in 
services between the Parties, and to expand the depth and 
scope of such trade with substantial coverage beyond those 
undertaken by the Parties under the General Agreement on 
Trade in Services of the World Trade Organization (WTO); 
 
STRIVING to enhance cooperation in services between the 
Parties in order to improve efficiency and competitiveness, 
as well as to diversify the supply and distribution of services 
of the respective service suppliers of the Parties, for 
implementation in accordance with the timeframes to be 
mutually agreed by the Parties to the Framework Agreement; 
 
RECALLING the instruction from the ASEAN Economic 
Ministers (AEM) – India Consultations held on the 28th day of 
August 2008 in Singapore for officials to commence, as soon 
as possible, negotiations on trade in services and investment 
as a single undertaking, and to work towards the conclusion 
of substantive discussions on these two agreements by 2009 
to bring about a complete ASEAN-India Comprehensive 
Economic Cooperation Agreement; 
 
REAFFIRMING that Article 2 of the Framework Agreement 
has provisions for special and differential treatment to 
Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, and Viet Nam; and for 
flexibility to the Parties to address their sensitive areas with 
such flexibilities to be negotiated and mutually agreed based 
on the principle of reciprocity and mutual benefits; 
 
RECOGNISING the right of the Parties to regulate, and to 
introduce new regulations, on the supply of services in their 
respective territories in order to meet national policy 
objectives and, given asymmetries existing with respect to 
the degree of development of services regulation within the 
3 
Parties, the particular need of the Parties to exercise this 
right;  
 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
 
PART I: SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Scope 
 
1. 
This Agreement applies to measures by the Parties 
affecting trade in services. 
 
2. 
This Agreement shall not apply to: 
 
(a) 
services supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority within the territory of each Party; 
 
(b) 
laws, regulations, or requirements governing the 
procurement 
by 
governmental 
agencies 
of 
services purchased for governmental purposes 
and not with a view to commercial resale or with 
a view to use in the supply of services for 
commercial sale; and 
 
(c) 
cabotage in maritime transport services. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
a service supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority means any service which is supplied neither 
on a commercial basis, nor in competition with one or 
more service suppliers; 
4 
 
(b) 
commercial presence means any type of business or 
professional establishment, including through: 
 
(i) 
the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a 
juridical person, or 
 
(ii) 
the creation or maintenance of a branch or a 
representative office, 
 
within the territory of a Party for the purpose of 
supplying a service;   
 
(c) 
direct taxes comprise all taxes on total income, on 
total capital or on elements of income or of capital, 
including taxes on gains from the alienation of property, 
taxes on estates, inheritances and gifts, and taxes on 
the total amounts of wages or salaries paid by 
enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation; 
 
(d) 
GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in 
Services; 
 
(e) 
juridical 
person means any legal entity duly 
constituted or otherwise organised under applicable 
law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether 
privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including 
any corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, sole 
proprietorship, or association; 
 
(f) 
juridical person of another Party means a juridical 
person which is either: 
 
(i) 
constituted or otherwise organised under the law 
of that other Party, and is engaged in substantive 
business operations in the territory of that Party 
or any other Party; or 
 
5 
(ii) 
in the case of the supply of a service through 
commercial presence, owned or controlled by: 
 
(AA) natural persons of that Party; or 
 
(BB) juridical persons of that other Party 
identified under subparagraph (i);  
 
(g) 
a juridical person is: 
 
(i) 
“owned” by persons of a Party if more than 50 
per cent of the equity interest in it is beneficially 
owned by persons of that Party; 
 
(ii) 
“controlled” by persons of a Party if such persons 
have the power to name a majority of its directors 
or otherwise to legally direct its actions; 
 
(iii) 
“affiliated” with another person when it controls, 
or is controlled by, that other person; or when it 
and the other person are both controlled by the 
same person; 
 
(h) 
licensing 
procedures 
means 
administrative 
or 
procedural rules that a natural or a juridical person, 
seeking authorisation to supply a service, including the 
amendment or renewal of a license, must adhere to in 
order to demonstrate compliance with licensing 
requirements; 
 
(i) 
licensing 
requirements 
means 
substantive 
requirements, other than qualification requirements, 
with which a natural or a juridical person is required to 
comply in order to obtain, amend, or renew 
authorisation to supply a service; 
 
(j) 
measure means any measure by a Party, whether in 
the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, 
administrative action, or any other form; 
6 
 
(k)  
measures by Parties means measures taken by:  
 
(i) 
central, regional, or local governments and 
authorities; and 
 
(ii) 
non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
powers delegated by central, regional or local 
governments or authorities; 
 
In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under the 
Agreement, each Party shall take such reasonable 
measures as may be available to it to ensure their 
observance by regional and local governments and 
authorities and non-governmental bodies within its 
territory; 
 
(l) 
measures by Parties affecting trade in services 
include measures in respect of: 
 
(i) 
the purchase, payment, or use of a service; 
 
(ii)  
the access to and use of, in connection with the 
supply of a service, services which are required 
by the Parties to be offered to the public 
generally;  
 
(iii)  the presence, including commercial presence, of 
persons of a Party for the supply of a service in 
the territory of another Party;  
 
(m) 
monopoly supplier of a service means any person, 
public or private, which in the relevant market of the 
territory of a Party is authorised or established formally 
or in effect by that Party as the sole supplier of that 
service; 
 
7 
(n) 
natural person of another Party means a natural 
person who resides in the territory of that other Party or 
elsewhere, and who under the law of that other Party: 
 
(i) 
is a national of that other Party; or 
 
(ii) 
has the right of permanent residence 1 in that 
other Party, in the case of a Party which accords 
substantially the same treatment to its permanent 
residents as it does to its nationals in respect of 
measures affecting trade in services, as notified 
after the entry into force of this Agreement 
provided that no Party is obliged to accord to 
such 
permanent 
residents 
treatment 
more 
favourable than would be accorded by that other 
Party to such permanent residents. Such 
notification shall include the assurance to 
assume, with respect to the permanent residents, 
in accordance with its laws and regulations, the 
same responsibilities that other Party bears with 
respect to its nationals;  
 
(o)  Parties means the ASEAN Member States and India, 
collectively;  
 
(p)  Party means an ASEAN Member State or India;  
 
(q)  person means either a natural person or a juridical 
person;  
 
                                       
1 In the case of Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand, Viet Nam, and 
India, natural person of another Party shall be limited to a natural person who resides 
in the territory of that other Party or elsewhere and who under the law of that other 
Party is a national of that other Party. Therefore, in line with the principle of 
reciprocity, this Agreement shall not apply to the permanent residents of Cambodia, 
Indonesia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand, Viet Nam, and India. Once any of these 
Parties enacts its domestic law on the treatment of permanent residents of another 
Party or non-party, there shall be negotiations on the issue of whether to include 
permanent residents in the coverage of natural person under this Agreement in 
respect of that Party. 
8 
(r) 
qualification procedures means administrative or 
procedural rules that a natural person must adhere to 
in order to demonstrate compliance with qualification 
requirements, 
for 
the 
purpose 
of 
obtaining 
authorisation to supply a service;  
 
(s) 
qualification 
requirements 
means 
substantive 
requirements relating to the competence of a natural 
person to supply a service, and which are required to 
be demonstrated for the purpose of obtaining 
authorisation to supply a service; 
 
(t) 
sector of a service means, 
 
(i) 
with reference to a specific commitment, one or 
more, or all, subsectors of that service, as 
specified in a Party’s Schedule,  
 
(ii) 
otherwise, the whole of that service sector, 
including all of its subsectors; 
 
(u) 
services includes any service in any sector except 
services supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority; 
 
(v) 
service consumer means any person that receives or 
uses a service; 
 
(w) 
service of another Party means a service which is 
supplied, 
 
(i) 
from or in the territory of that other Party, or in the 
case of maritime transport, by a vessel registered 
under the laws of that other Party, or by a person 
of that other Party which supplies the service 
through the operation of a vessel and/or its use in 
whole or in part; or 
 
9 
(ii)  
in the case of the supply of a service through 
commercial presence or through the presence of 
natural persons, by a service supplier of that 
other Party; 
 
(x) 
service supplier means any person that supplies a 
service;2 
 
(y) 
supply 
of 
a 
service includes the production, 
distribution, marketing, sale and delivery of a service;  
 
(z) 
technical standards means measures that lay down 
the characteristics of a service or the manner in which 
it is supplied.  Technical standards also include the 
procedures relating to the enforcement of such 
standards; 
 
(aa) trade in services is defined as the supply of a service: 
 
(i) 
from the territory of a Party into the territory of 
any other Party (“cross-border”); 
 
(ii) 
in the territory of a Party to the service consumer 
of any other Party (“consumption abroad”); 
 
(iii) 
by a service supplier of a Party, through 
commercial presence in the territory of any other 
Party (“commercial presence”); 
 
(iv) 
by a service supplier of a Party, through 
presence of natural persons of a Party in the 
territory of any other Party (“presence of natural 
persons”). 
                                       
2 Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other 
forms of commercial presence such as a branch or a representative office, the 
service supplier (i.e. the juridical person) shall, nonetheless, through such presence 
be accorded the treatment provided for service suppliers under this Agreement. Such 
treatment shall be extended to the presence through which the service is supplied 
and need not be extended to any other parts of the supplier located outside the 
territory where the service is supplied. 
10 
 
 
PART II: OBLIGATIONS AND DISCIPLINES  
 
ARTICLE 3 
Transparency 
 
1. 
Each Party shall publish promptly and, except in 
emergency situations, at the latest by the time of their entry 
into force, all relevant measures of general application which 
pertain to or affect the operation of this Agreement. 
International agreements pertaining to or affecting trade in 
services to which a Party is a signatory shall also be 
published.   
 
2. 
Where publication as referred to in paragraph 1 of this 
Article is not practicable, such information shall be made 
otherwise publicly available.   
 
3. 
Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by 
any other Party for specific information on any of its 
measures of general application or international agreements 
within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. Each Party 
shall also establish one or more enquiry points to provide 
specific information to any other Party, upon request, on all 
such matters. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Disclosure of Confidential Information  
 
Article III bis of the GATS is, mutatis mutandis, incorporated 
into and shall form an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
 
11 
ARTICLE 5 
Domestic Regulation  
 
1. 
In sectors where specific commitments are undertaken 
under Part III of this Agreement, each Party shall ensure that 
all measures of general application affecting trade in services 
are administered in a reasonable, objective, and impartial 
manner. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Each Party shall maintain or institute as soon as 
practicable judicial, arbitral or administrative 
tribunals or procedures which provide, at the 
request of an affected service supplier, for the 
prompt review of, and where justified, appropriate 
remedies for, administrative decisions affecting 
trade in services. Where such procedures are not 
independent of the agency entrusted with the 
administrative decision concerned, the Party shall 
ensure that the procedures in fact provide for an 
objective and impartial review. 
 
(b) 
The provisions of paragraph 2(a) of this Article 
shall not be construed to require a Party to 
institute such tribunals or procedures where this 
would be inconsistent with its constitutional 
structure or the nature of its legal system 
provided, however, that in the event separate 
tribunals or procedures cannot be constituted, the 
relevant Party shall ensure that adequate 
remedies are available for the affected services 
supplier referred to in paragraph 2(a) of this 
Article through the ordinary judicial or quasi-
judicial procedure of that Party3. 
 
3. 
Where authorisation is required for the supply of a 
service on which a specific commitment under this 
                                       
3 For greater certainty, the application of this paragraph shall be governed by the 
respective laws and regulations of the Parties.   
12 
Agreement has been made, the competent authorities of 
each Party shall:  
 
(a)  within a reasonable period of time after the 
submission 
of 
an 
application 
considered 
complete under domestic laws and regulations, 
inform the applicant of the decision concerning 
the application;  
 
(b)  at the request of the applicant, without undue 
delay, provide information concerning the status 
of 
the 
application, 
including 
incomplete 
application.  In the case of an incomplete 
application, identify all the additional information 
that is required to complete the application and 
provide an opportunity to the applicant to remedy 
deficiencies within a reasonable timeframe;  
 
(c)  
if an application is terminated or denied, to the 
maximum extent possible, inform the applicant in 
writing, without undue delay, the reasons for such 
action.  The applicant will have the possibility of 
resubmitting, at its discretion, a new application. 
 
4. 
With the objective of ensuring that measures relating to 
qualification 
requirements 
and 
procedures, 
technical 
standards and licensing requirements do not constitute 
unnecessary barriers to trade in services, the Parties shall 
jointly review the results of the negotiations on disciplines on 
these measures, pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article VI of the 
GATS, with a view to their incorporation into this Agreement. 
The Parties note that such disciplines aim to ensure that 
such requirements are, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
based on objective and transparent criteria, such 
as competence and the ability to supply the 
service; 
 
13 
(b) 
not more burdensome than necessary to ensure 
the quality of the service; 
 
(c) 
in the case of licensing procedures, not in 
themselves a restriction on the supply of the 
service. 
 
5. 
(a) 
In sectors in which a Party has undertaken 
specific commitments under Part III of this 
Agreement, pending the incorporation of the 
disciplines referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Article, that Party shall not apply licensing and 
qualification 
requirements 
and 
technical 
standards that nullify or impair its obligation 
under this Agreement in a manner which: 
 
(i) 
does not comply with the criteria outlined in 
paragraphs 4(a), (b) or (c) of this Article; 
and 
 
(ii) 
could not reasonably have been expected 
of that Party at the time the specific 
commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
(b) 
In determining whether a Party is in conformity 
with the obligation under paragraph 5(a) of this 
Article, account shall be taken of international 
standards of relevant international organisations4 
applied by that Party. 
 
6. 
In sectors where specific commitments regarding 
professional services are undertaken, each Party shall 
provide for adequate procedures to verify the competence of 
professionals of any other Party in accordance with 
provisions in paragraph 5 of this Article.   
 
 
                                       
4 The term "relevant international organisations" refers to international bodies whose 
membership is open to the relevant bodies of all Parties to this Agreement.  
14 
ARTICLE 6 
Recognition 
 
1. 
For the purposes of fulfilment of their respective 
standards or criteria for the authorisation, licensing or 
certification of service suppliers, each Party may recognise 
the education or experience obtained, requirements met, or 
licenses or certifications granted in another Party. Such 
recognition, which may be achieved through harmonisation 
or otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or 
arrangement between the Parties or the relevant competent 
bodies or may be accorded autonomously.   
 
2. 
A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement 
of the type referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, whether 
existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for other 
interested Parties to negotiate their accession to such an 
agreement or arrangement or to negotiate comparable ones 
with it.  Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it 
shall afford adequate opportunity for any other Party to 
demonstrate that education, experience, licenses, or 
certifications obtained or requirements met in that other 
Party’s territory should be recognised.  
 
3. 
Upon request being made in writing by a Party to the 
other Party, the Parties shall encourage their respective 
professional bodies or professional regulatory authorities, in 
any regulated services sector of mutual interest to negotiate 
and conclude within 12 months or a reasonable timeframe to 
be mutually agreed between the professional bodies of both 
Parties, any arrangement for mutual recognition of education, 
or experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or 
certifications granted in that service sector, with a view to the 
achievement of early outcomes. Any delay or failure by these 
professional bodies to reach and conclude agreement on the 
details of such agreements or arrangements shall not be 
regarded as a breach of a Party’s obligations under this 
paragraph and shall not be subject to the Agreement on 
Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework 
15 
Agreement (ASEAN-India DSM Agreement). Progress in this 
regard will be reviewed by the Parties in the course of the 
review of this Agreement pursuant to Article 27 (Review). 
 
4.  
Where harmonisation, agreement or arrangement as 
provided in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article does not 
exist, each Party shall leave any consideration on mutual 
recognition or licensing to relevant professional bodies or 
professional 
regulatory 
authorities 
in 
its 
territory 
in 
accordance with domestic laws and regulations of the host 
country. 
 
5. 
A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner which 
would constitute a means of discrimination between 
countries in the application of its standards or criteria for the 
authorisation, licensing or certification of services suppliers, 
or a disguised restriction on trade in services.  
 
6.  
The Parties agree that they shall not be responsible in 
any way for the settlement of disputes arising out of or under 
the agreements or arrangements for mutual recognition 
concluded by their respective professional bodies or 
professional regulatory authorities under the provisions of 
this Article and that the provisions of the ASEAN-India DSM 
Agreement shall not apply to disputes arising out of, or 
under, the provisions of such agreements or arrangements. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier of 
a service in its territory does not, in the supply of the 
monopoly service in the relevant market, act in a manner 
inconsistent with that Party’s obligations under specific 
commitments.  
 
2. 
Where a Party’s monopoly supplier competes, either 
directly or through an affiliated company, in the supply of a 
16 
service outside the scope of its monopoly rights and which is 
subject to that Party's specific commitments, the Party shall 
ensure that such a supplier does not abuse its monopoly 
position to act in its territory in a manner inconsistent with 
such commitments. 
 
3. 
If any Party has reason to believe that a monopoly 
supplier of a service of any other Party is acting in a manner 
inconsistent with paragraphs 1 or 2 of this Article, that Party 
may 
request 
the 
Party 
establishing, 
maintaining 
or 
authorising such supplier to provide specific information 
concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4. 
The provisions of this Article shall also apply to cases 
of exclusive service suppliers, where a Party, formally or in 
effect,  
 
(a) 
authorises or establishes a small number of 
service suppliers; and  
 
(b) 
substantially prevents competition among those 
suppliers in its territory. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Business Practices 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that certain business practices 
of services suppliers, other than those falling under Article 7 
(Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers), may restrain 
competition and thereby restrict trade in services.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall, at the request of any other Party, 
enter into consultations with a view to eliminating practices 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The Party 
addressed shall accord full and sympathetic consideration to 
such a request and shall cooperate through the supply of 
publicly available non-confidential information of relevance to 
the matter in question. The Party addressed shall also 
17 
provide other information available to the requesting Party, 
subject to its domestic law and to the conclusion of 
satisfactory agreement concerning the safeguarding of its 
confidentiality by the requesting Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Parties note the multilateral negotiations pursuant 
to Article X of the GATS on the question of emergency 
safeguard measures based on the principle of non-
discrimination. Upon the conclusion of such multilateral 
negotiations, the Parties shall conduct a review for the 
purpose of discussing appropriate amendments to this 
Agreement so as to incorporate the results of such 
multilateral negotiations.  Until such a time, no Party shall 
take safeguard actions against services and service 
suppliers of the other Party or Parties, except in accordance 
with the procedure as detailed in paragraph 2 of this Article. 
 
2. 
In the event that the implementation of this Agreement 
causes substantial adverse impact to a service sector of a 
Party before the conclusion of the multilateral negotiations 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the affected Party 
may request for consultations with the other Party or Parties 
for the purposes of discussing any safeguard measures with 
respect to the affected service sector.  Any measure taken 
pursuant to this paragraph, including the duration for which 
the measure shall apply, shall be mutually agreed by the 
Parties concerned, shall be applicable based on the principle 
of non-discrimination, and shall be limited to the specific 
service sector.  The Parties concerned shall take into 
account the circumstances of the particular case and give 
sympathetic consideration to the Party seeking to take a 
measure. 
 
 
18 
ARTICLE 10 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1. 
Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 
11 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments), a 
Party shall not apply restrictions on international transfers 
and payments for current transactions relating to its specific 
commitments. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and 
obligations of any Party who is a member of the International 
Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, 
including the use of exchange actions which are in 
conformity with the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, 
provided that a Party shall not impose restrictions on any 
capital 
transactions 
inconsistently 
with 
its 
specific 
commitments regarding such transactions, except under 
Article 11 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of 
Payments) or at the request of the Fund. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
Where a Party is in serious balance of payments and 
external financial difficulties or threat thereof, it may adopt or 
maintain restrictions on trade in services in accordance with 
paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 of Article XII of the GATS. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not 
applied in a manner which would constitute a means of 
arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between Parties 
where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
trade in services, nothing in this Agreement shall be 
19 
construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any 
Party of measures:  
 
(a) 
necessary to protect public morals or to maintain 
public order;5 
 
(b) 
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life 
or health; 
 
(c) 
necessary to secure compliance with laws or 
regulations which are not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement including those 
relating to: 
 
(i) 
the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent 
practices or to deal with the effects of a 
default on services contracts; 
 
(ii) 
the protection of the privacy of individuals 
in 
relation 
to 
the 
processing 
and 
dissemination of personal data and the 
protection of confidentiality of individual 
records and accounts; 
 
(iii) 
safety; 
 
(d) 
inconsistent with Article 18 (National Treatment), 
provided that the difference in treatment is aimed 
at ensuring the equitable or effective6 imposition 
                                       
5  The public order exception may be invoked only where a genuine and sufficiently serious 
threat is posed to one of the fundamental interests of society. 
6  Measures that are aimed at ensuring the equitable or effective imposition or collection of 
direct taxes include measures taken by a Party under its taxation system which: 
(i)  apply to non-resident service suppliers in recognition of the fact that the tax obligation of 
non-residents is determined with respect to taxable items sourced or located in the 
Party's territory;  or 
(ii)  apply to non-residents in order to ensure the imposition or collection of taxes in the 
Party's territory; or 
(iii)   apply to non-residents or residents in order to prevent the avoidance or evasion of 
taxes, including compliance measures; or 
(iv)  apply to consumers of services supplied in or from the territory of another Party in order 
to ensure the imposition or collection of taxes on such consumers derived from sources 
in the Party's territory; or 
20 
or collection of direct taxes in respect of services 
or service suppliers of other Parties; 
 
(e) 
resulting in difference in treatment provided that 
the difference in treatment is the result of an 
agreement on the avoidance of double taxation 
or provisions on the avoidance of double taxation 
in 
any 
other 
international 
agreement 
or 
arrangement by which the Party is bound. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Security Exceptions 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a) 
to require any Party to furnish any information, 
the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its 
essential security interests; or 
 
(b) 
to prevent any Party from taking any action which 
it considers necessary for the protection of its 
essential security interests, including but not 
limited to:  
 
(i) 
action relating to fissionable and fusionable 
materials or the materials from which they 
are derived; 
 
(ii) 
action relating to the traffic in arms, 
ammunition and implements of war and to 
such traffic in other goods and materials as 
                                                                                                    
(v)  distinguish service suppliers subject to tax on worldwide taxable items from other 
service suppliers, in recognition of the difference in the nature of the tax base between 
them; or 
(vi)  determine, allocate or apportion income, profit, gain, loss, deduction or credit of resident 
persons or branches, or between related persons or branches of the same person, in 
order to safeguard the Party's tax base. 
 Tax terms or concepts in subparagraph (d) of this Article and in this footnote are determined 
according to tax definitions and concepts, or equivalent or similar definitions and concepts, 
under the domestic law of the Party taking the measure. 
21 
is carried on directly or indirectly for the 
purpose 
of 
supplying 
a 
military 
establishment;  
 
(iii) 
action taken so as to protect critical public 
infrastructures including communication, 
power and water infrastructures from 
deliberate attempts intended to disable or 
degrade such infrastructure;  
 
(iv) 
action taken in time of war or other 
emergency in domestic or international 
relations; or 
 
(c) 
to prevent any Party from taking any action in 
pursuance of its obligations under the United 
Nations 
Charter 
for 
the 
maintenance 
of 
international peace and security. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall inform the other Parties to the fullest 
extent possible of measures taken under paragraphs 1(b) 
and 1(c) of this Article and of their termination. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require 
a Party to accord the benefits of this Agreement to a service 
supplier of another Party where a Party adopts or maintains 
measures in any legislation or regulation which it considers 
necessary for the protection of its essential security interest 
with respect to a non-Party or a service supplier of a non-
Party that would be violated or circumvented if the benefits of 
this Agreement were accorded to such service supplier.   
 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Subsidies  
 
1.  
Except where provided in this Article, this Agreement 
shall not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party, or 
to any conditions attached to the receipt or continued receipt 
22 
of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such subsidies or 
grants are offered exclusively to domestic services, service 
consumers, or service suppliers.  If such subsidies or grants 
significantly affect trade in services committed under this 
Agreement, any Party may request for consultations with a 
view to an amicable resolution of this matter.  
 
2. 
Pursuant to this Agreement, the Parties shall:  
 
(a) 
on request, provide information on subsidies 
related to trade in services committed under this 
Agreement to any requesting Party; and  
 
(b) 
review the treatment of subsidies when relevant 
disciplines are developed by the WTO. 
 
3. 
The provisions of the ASEAN-India DSM Agreement 
shall not apply to any request made or consultation held 
under the provisions of this Article or to any dispute that may 
arise between the Parties under the provisions of this Article.   
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
Cooperation 
 
The Parties shall strengthen cooperation efforts in services 
sectors, including sectors which are not covered by existing 
cooperation arrangements. The Parties shall discuss and 
mutually agree on the sectors for cooperation and develop 
cooperation programmes in these sectors in order to improve 
their domestic capacities, efficiencies and competitiveness. 
 
 
23 
ARTICLE 16 
Increasing Participation of Cambodia, Lao PDR, 
Myanmar and Viet Nam 
 
1. 
The increasing participation of Cambodia, Lao PDR, 
Myanmar, and Viet Nam in this Agreement shall be facilitated 
through negotiated specific commitments, relating to: 
 
(a) 
the strengthening of their domestic services 
capacity and its efficiency and competitiveness, 
inter alia, through access to technology on a 
commercial basis; 
 
(b) 
the improvement of their access to distribution 
channels 
and 
information 
networks 
on 
a 
commercial basis; and 
 
(c) 
the liberalisation of market access in sectors and 
modes of supply of export interest to them.  
 
2. 
Appropriate flexibility shall be accorded to Cambodia, 
Lao PDR, Myanmar, and Viet Nam for progressive 
liberalisation in terms of specific commitments undertaken in 
line with their respective stage of development. 
 
 
PART III: SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  
 
ARTICLE 17 
Market Access 
 
1. 
With respect to market access through the modes of 
supply identified in paragraph (aa) of Article 2 (Definitions) of 
this Agreement, a Party shall accord services and service 
suppliers of any other Party treatment no less favourable 
than that provided for under the terms, limitations and 
conditions agreed and specified in its Schedule.7 
                                       
7 If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to the supply of a 
service through the mode of supply referred to in paragraph (aa)(i) of Article 2 
24 
 
2. 
In sectors where market access commitments are 
undertaken, the measures which a Party shall not maintain 
or adopt either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on 
the basis of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in 
its Schedule, are defined as: 
 
(a) 
limitations on the number of service suppliers 
whether in the form of numerical quotas, 
monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the 
requirements of an economic needs test; 
 
(b) 
limitations 
on 
the 
total 
value 
of 
service 
transactions or assets in the form of numerical 
quotas or the requirement of an economic needs 
test; 
 
(c) 
limitations on the total number of service 
operations or on the total quantity of service 
output 
expressed 
in 
terms 
of 
designated 
numerical units in the form of quotas or the 
requirement of an economic needs test;8 
 
(d) 
limitations on the total number of natural persons 
that may be employed in a particular service 
sector or that a service supplier may employ and 
who are necessary for, and directly related to, the 
supply of a specific service in the form of 
numerical quotas or the requirement of an 
economic needs test; 
 
                                                                                                    
(Definitions) of this Agreement and if the cross-border movement of capital is an 
essential part of the service itself, that Party is thereby committed to allow such 
movement of capital. If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to 
the supply of a service through the mode of supply referred to in paragraph (aa)(iii) of 
Article 2 (Definitions) of this Agreement, it is thereby committed to allow related 
transfers of capital into its territory. 
8 Paragraph 2(c) of this Article does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs 
for the supply of services. 
25 
(e) 
measures which restrict or require specific types 
of legal entity or joint venture through which a 
service supplier may supply a service; and 
 
(f) 
limitations on the participation of foreign capital in 
terms of maximum percentage limit on foreign 
shareholding or the total value of individual or 
aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
ARTICLE 18 
National Treatment 
 
1. 
In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule, and subject to 
any conditions and qualifications set out therein, each Party 
shall accord to services and service suppliers of any other 
Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of 
services, treatment no less favourable than that it accords to 
its own like services and service suppliers9.  
 
2. 
A Party may meet the requirement of paragraph 1 of 
this Article by according to services and service suppliers of 
any other Party, either formally identical treatment or formally 
different treatment to that it accords to its own like services 
and service suppliers. 
 
3. 
Formally identical or formally different treatment shall 
be considered to be less favourable if it modifies the 
conditions of competition in favour of services or service 
suppliers of the Party compared to like services or service 
suppliers of any other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Additional Commitments 
 
                                       
9 Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require 
any Party to compensate for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result 
from the foreign character of the relevant services or service suppliers.  
26 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to 
measures affecting trade in services not subject to 
scheduling under Article 17 (Market Access) and Article 18 
(National Treatment), including those regarding qualifications, 
standards or licensing matters. Such commitments shall be 
inscribed in a Party’s Schedule. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Schedules of Specific Commitments 
 
1. 
Each Party shall set out in a schedule the specific 
commitments it undertakes under Article 17 (Market Access), 
Article 18 (National Treatment), and Article 19 (Additional 
Commitments). With respect to sectors where such 
commitments are undertaken, each Schedule shall specify: 
 
(a) 
the sectors in which such commitments are 
undertaken; 
(b) 
terms, limitations and conditions on market 
access; 
(c) 
conditions 
and 
qualifications 
on 
national 
treatment; 
(d) 
undertakings relating to additional commitments; 
and 
(e) 
where 
appropriate 
the 
timeframe 
for 
implementation of such commitments. 
 
2. 
Measures inconsistent with both Articles 17 (Market 
Access) and 18 (National Treatment) shall be inscribed in the 
column relating to Article 17 (Market Access).  In this case 
the inscription will be considered to provide a condition or 
qualification to Article 18 (National Treatment) as well. 
 
3. 
Where commitments are undertaken on the movement 
of natural persons, they shall include any one or more of the 
categories of natural persons as defined in Annex on 
Movement of Natural Persons subject to paragraph 1 of this 
Article. 
27 
 
4. 
The Parties’ schedules of specific commitments shall 
be annexed to this Agreement upon completion of the 
negotiations and shall form an integral part thereof. 
 
 
ARTICLE 21 
Application and Extension of Commitments 
 
1. 
India shall make a single schedule of specific 
commitments under Article 20 (Schedules of Specific 
Commitments) and shall apply this Schedule to Brunei 
Darussalam, Cambodia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, 
Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam, and separate individual 
schedules of specific commitments to Indonesia and the 
Philippines, respectively. 
 
2. 
Each ASEAN Member State shall make its individual 
schedule 
of 
specific 
commitments 
under 
Article 
20 
(Schedules of Specific Commitments) and shall apply this 
Schedule to India and the rest of the ASEAN Member States. 
 
 
ARTICLE 22 
Modification of Schedules 
 
1. 
A Party may modify or withdraw any commitment in its 
Schedule, at any time after three years from the date on 
which that commitment has entered into force provided that: 
 
(a) 
it notifies the Joint Committee on Services of its 
intention to modify or withdraw a commitment no 
later than three months before the intended date 
of 
implementation 
of 
the 
modification 
or 
withdrawal; and 
 
(b) 
it enters into negotiations with any affected Party 
to 
agree 
to 
the 
necessary 
compensatory 
adjustment. 
28 
2. 
In achieving a compensatory adjustment, Parties shall 
ensure that the general level of mutually advantageous 
commitment is not less favourable to trade than provided for 
in the Schedules prior to such negotiations. 
 
3. 
Any compensatory adjustment pursuant to this Article 
shall be accorded on a non-discriminatory basis to all 
Parties. 
 
4. 
If the Parties concerned are unable to reach an 
agreement on the compensatory adjustment, the matter shall 
be resolved under the ASEAN-India DSM Agreement.  The 
modifying Party may not modify or withdraw its commitment 
until it has made compensatory adjustments in conformity 
with the findings of the arbitration.  
 
5. 
If the modifying Party implements its proposed 
modification or withdrawal and does not comply with the 
findings of the arbitration, any Party that participated in the 
arbitration may modify or withdraw substantially equivalent 
benefits in conformity with those findings.  Notwithstanding 
Article 21 (Application and Extension of Commitments), such 
a modification or withdrawal may be implemented solely with 
respect to the modifying Party. 
 
 
PART IV: OTHER PROVISIONS 
 
ARTICLE 23 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
1. 
Each Party reaffirms its rights and obligations vis-à-vis 
another Party under the WTO Agreement and other 
agreements to which these Parties are party.  
 
2. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to 
derogate from any right or obligation of a Party under the 
WTO Agreement and other agreements to which these 
Parties are party. 
29 
 
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between this 
Agreement and any other agreement to which two or more 
Parties are party, such Parties shall immediately consult with 
a view to finding a mutually satisfactory solution. 
 
4. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent any individual 
ASEAN Member State from entering into any agreement with 
any one or more ASEAN Member State and/or India. 
 
5. 
This Agreement shall not apply to any agreement 
among ASEAN Member States or to any agreement between 
any ASEAN Member State and India unless otherwise 
agreed by the parties to that agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 24 
Annexes and Future Legal Instruments 
 
1. 
The Annexes shall form an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Parties may adopt legal instruments in the future 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, including those 
proposed to them by the Joint Committee on Services. Upon 
their respective entry into force, such instruments shall form 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 25 
Contact Point 
 
1. 
Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate 
communications between the Parties on any matter covered 
by this Agreement, including the exchange of information 
relevant to the implementation and operation of this 
Agreement. 
 
30 
2. 
At the request of any Party, the contact point of the 
requested Party shall identify the office or official responsible 
for the matter and assist in facilitating communication with 
the requesting Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 26 
Joint Committee on Services 
 
1. 
A Joint Committee on Services shall be established 
under this Agreement within one year upon entry into force of 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The functions of the Joint Committee on Services shall 
be to: 
 
(a) 
review the implementation and operation of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
submit 
a 
report 
to 
the 
Parties 
on 
the 
implementation and operation of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
consider and recommend to the Parties any 
amendments to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
supervise and coordinate the work of all Sub-
Committees established under this Agreement; 
and 
 
(e) 
carry out other functions as may be agreed by 
the Parties. 
 
3. 
The Joint Committee on Services: 
 
(a) 
shall be composed of representatives of the 
Parties; and 
 
(b) 
may establish Sub-Committees and delegate its 
responsibilities thereto. 
31 
 
 
ARTICLE 27 
Review 
 
The Joint Committee on Services shall meet within one year 
from the date of entry into force of this Agreement to review 
the implementation and operation of this Agreement or as 
mutually agreed by the Parties.  Thereafter, biennially or 
otherwise as appropriate the Joint Committee on Services 
shall review this Agreement, including for the purpose of 
progressively liberalising trade in services as well as 
developing disciplines and negotiating subsequent packages 
of commitments as may be agreed, with a view to facilitate 
the elimination of substantially all remaining discriminations 
between the Parties with regard to trade in services covered 
under this Agreement, including the Annex on Movement of 
Natural Persons.  
 
 
ARTICLE 28 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
1. 
The GATS Annexes, namely: Annex on Movement of 
Natural Persons Supplying Services, Annex on Air Transport 
Services, Annex on Financial Services, and Annex on 
Telecommunications shall apply to this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
2. 
This Agreement shall include (a) the Annexes including 
the Annex on Movement of Natural Persons agreed under 
this Agreement and the contents therein which shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement, and (b) all future legal 
instruments agreed pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this 
Agreement or any action taken under it shall not affect or 
nullify the rights and obligations of a Party under existing 
agreements to which it is a party. 
32 
 
 
ARTICLE 29 
Amendments 
 
This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by 
the Parties and such amendments shall enter into force on 
such date or dates as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 30 
Dispute Settlement 
 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any dispute 
concerning the interpretation, implementation, or application 
of this Agreement shall be resolved through the procedures 
and mechanisms as set out in the ASEAN-India DSM 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 31 
Denial of Benefits  
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
to the supply of a service, if it establishes that the 
service is supplied from or in the territory of a 
non-Party;  
 
(b) 
in the case of the supply of a maritime transport 
service, if it establishes that the service is 
supplied: 
 
(i) 
by a vessel registered under the laws of a 
non-Party; and 
 
(ii) 
by a person of a non-Party which operates 
and/or uses the vessel in whole or in part; 
 
33 
(c) 
to a service supplier of another Party where a 
Party establishes that: 
 
(i) 
where such service supplier is a natural 
person, such natural person is not a 
“natural person of another Party” as defined 
under this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
where such service supplier is a juridical 
person, such person is not a “juridical 
person of another Party” as defined under 
this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 32 
Entry into Force 
 
1. 
Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing upon 
completion of its internal requirements10 necessary for entry 
into force of this Agreement. This Agreement shall enter into 
force on 1 July 2015 for any Party that has made such 
notifications provided that India and at least four (4) ASEAN 
Member States have made such notifications by that date. 
 
2. 
If this Agreement does not enter into force on 1 July 
2015 it shall enter into force, for any Party that has made the 
notification referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Article, sixty 
(60) days after the date by which India and at least four (4) 
ASEAN Member States have made the notifications referred 
to in Paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
3. 
After the entry into force of this Agreement pursuant to 
Paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article, this Agreement shall enter 
into force for any Party sixty (60) days after the date of its 
notification referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
                                       
10 For greater certainty, the term “internal requirements” may include obtaining 
governmental approval or parliamentary approval in accordance with domestic law. 
34 
 
ARTICLE 33 
Depositary 
 
For the ASEAN Member States, this Agreement shall be 
deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall 
promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN 
Member State. 
 
 
ARTICLE 34 
Withdrawal and Termination 
 
1.  
Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving 
12 months advance notice in writing to the other Parties. 
 
2.  
This Agreement shall terminate if, pursuant to 
paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  India withdraws; or 
(b)  this Agreement is in force for less than four 
ASEAN Member States. 
 
3. 
The other Parties may request in writing consultations 
concerning any matter that would arise from the withdrawal 
within 60 days after the date of receipt of the notice in 
paragraph 1 of this Article.  The requested Party shall enter 
into consultations in good faith upon receipt of the request.   
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly 
authorised by their respective Governments, have signed the 
Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation 
between the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations and 
the Republic of India. 
 
 
35 
DONE at Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar this Thirteenth day of 
November in the year Two Thousand and Fourteenth in two 
original copies in the English Language. 
 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam: 
 
 
 
 
LIM JOCK SENG 
Second Minister of Foreign Affairs 
and Trade 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of India: 
 
 
 
 
NIRMALA SITHARAMAN 
Minister of State for Commerce 
and Industry  
 
For the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
SUN CHANTHOL 
Senior Minister and Minister of 
Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
MUHAMMAD LUTFI  
Minister of Trade 
 
36 
For the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic: 
 
 
 
 
KHEMMANI PHOLSENA 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
For Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
MUSTAPA MOHAMED 
Minister of International Trade and 
Industry  
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of the Union of 
Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
KAN ZAW  
Union Minister for National Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
For the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
GREGORY L. DOMINGO 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
CHUTIMA BUNYAPRAPHASARA 
Permanent Secretary 
Acting for the Minister of Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
 
38 
Annex on Movement of Natural Persons 
 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement:  
 
(a)  Business Visitor means a natural person 
seeking to enter the territory of another Party 
temporarily, whose remuneration is derived 
outside that other Party: 
 
(i) 
for negotiating sale of goods or supply of 
services on behalf of a service supplier of a 
Party where such negotiations do not 
involve making direct sales to the general 
public  and the representative of the service 
supplier is not involved in supplying 
services directly; or   
 
(ii)  
as an employee of a juridical person who is 
a manager, an executive or a specialist (as 
defined in paragraphs (c)(i), (c)(ii) and (c)(iii) 
of 
this 
Annex) 
for 
the 
purpose 
of 
establishing an investment or setting up a 
commercial presence for the juridical 
person in the territory of another Party; or 
 
(iii) 
for 
the 
purpose 
of 
establishing 
an 
investment or setting up a commercial 
presence; or 
 
(iv) 
for the purpose of participating in business 
negotiations or business meetings. 
 
(b) 
Contractual Service Supplier 11  means an 
employee of a juridical person of a Party which 
                                       
11 For greater certainty, in the case of the Philippines, Contractual Service Supplier 
covers this definition, and also (a) is either an executive, manager, or specialist as 
may be specified in the schedule of commitments, and (b) has been an employee of 
39 
does not have commercial presence in another 
Party where the services will be provided, who: 
 
(i) 
enters the territory of that other Party  
temporarily in order to perform a service 
pursuant to a contract(s) between the 
employer and a service consumer(s)12 in 
the territory of that other Party;   
 
(ii) 
receives remuneration from his or her 
employer; and 
 
(iii) 
must possess the appropriate educational 
and other qualifications relevant to the 
service to be provided and has obtained, 
wherever necessary, registration with the 
relevant professional body. 
 
(c) 
Intra-Corporate Transferee (ICT) refers to an 
employee of a juridical person of a Party as 
defined in this Agreement who is transferred 
temporarily for the supply of a service through 
commercial presence in the territory of another 
Party, and has been an employee of that juridical 
person for a period as may be specified in the 
schedule of commitments, and who is: 
 
(i) 
an Executive: a natural person within the 
organisation who primarily directs the 
management of the organisation and 
exercises wide latitude in decision making 
and receives only general supervision or 
direction from higher level executives, the 
board of directors, or stockholders of the 
business. Executives would not directly 
                                                                                                    
the juridical person for a period as specified in the schedule of commitments of each 
Party preceding the date of the application for entry or temporary stay.  
12 In the case of Indonesia, Thailand and Viet Nam, the service consumer(s) have to 
be juridical person(s). 
40 
perform tasks necessary for the provision 
of the service to the extent that this does 
not prevent the Executive, in the course of 
executing his duties as described above, 
from performing such tasks as may be 
necessary for the provision of the service;   
 
(ii) 
a Manager: a natural person within the 
organisation who  primarily directs the 
organisation/department/ subdivision and 
exercises supervisory and control function 
over other supervisory, managerial or 
professional staff; does not include first line 
supervisors unless employees supervised 
are professionals, nor does it include 
employees who directly perform tasks 
necessary for the provision of the service 
provided that this does not prevent the 
Manager, in the course of executing his 
duties as described above, from performing 
tasks as may be necessary for the 
provision of the service; or   
 
(iii) 
a Specialist: a natural person within the 
organisation who possesses knowledge at 
an advanced level of expertise essential to 
the establishment/provision of the service 
and/or possesses relevant knowledge of 
the 
organisation‘s 
service, 
research 
equipment, techniques or management.  A 
specialist may include, but is not limited to, 
members of a licensed profession.  
 
 
