 
 
CHAPTER 2 
 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
 
Section A:  Definitions and Scope 
 
Article 2.1:  Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
advertising  films  and  recordings  means  recorded  visual  media  or  audio 
materials,  consisting  essentially  of  images  or  sound,  showing  the  nature  or 
operation of goods or services offered for sale or lease by a person of a Party, that 
are of a kind suitable for exhibition to prospective customers but not for broadcast 
to the general public;  
 
Agreement  on  Agriculture  means  the  Agreement  on  Agriculture,  set  out  in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
commercial samples of negligible value means commercial or trade samples: 
having a value, individually or in the aggregate as shipped, of not more than one 
U.S. dollar or the equivalent amount in the currency of another Party; or so 
marked, torn, perforated or otherwise treated that they are unsuitable for sale or 
for use except as commercial samples;  
 
consular transactions means requirements that goods of a Party intended for 
export to the territory of another Party must first be submitted to the supervision 
of the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the exporting Party for the 
purpose of obtaining consular invoices or consular visas for commercial invoices, 
certificates  of  origin,  manifests,  shippers’  export  declarations,  or  any  other 
customs documentation required on or in connection with importation; 
 
consumed means, with respect to a good:  
 
(a)  actually consumed; or  
 
(b)  further processed or manufactured:  
 
(i)  so as to result in a substantial change in the value, form or 
use of the good; or  
 
(ii)  in the production of another good; 
 
duty-free means free of customs duty; 
  2-1 
goods admitted for sports purposes means sports requisites admitted into the 
territory  of  the  importing  Party  for  use  in  sports  contests,  demonstrations  or 
training in the territory of that Party;  
 
goods intended for display or demonstration includes their component parts, 
ancillary apparatuses and accessories; 
 
import licensing means an administrative procedure requiring the submission of 
an  application  or  other  documentation,  other  than  that  generally  required  for 
customs clearance purposes, to the relevant administrative body of the importing 
Party as a prior condition for importation into the territory of that Party; 
 
Import  Licensing  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on  Import  Licensing 
Procedures, set out in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
performance requirement means a requirement that:  
 
(a)  a given level or percentage of goods or services be exported; 
 
(b)  domestic  goods  or  services  of  the  Party  granting  a  waiver  of 
customs duties or an import licence be substituted for imported 
goods; 
 
(c)  a  person  benefiting  from  a  waiver  of  customs  duties  or  a 
requirement for an import licence purchase other goods or services 
in the territory of the Party that grants the waiver of customs duties 
or  the  import  licence  or  accord  a  preference  to  domestically 
produced goods; 
 
(d)  a  person  benefiting  from  a  waiver  of  customs  duties  or  a 
requirement for an import licence produce goods or supply services 
in the territory of the Party that grants the waiver of customs duties 
or the import licence, with a given level or percentage of domestic 
content; or 
 
(e)  relates in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume or 
value of exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows,  
 
but does not include a requirement that an imported good be:  
 
  (f)  subsequently exported; 
 
(g)  used  as  a  material  in  the  production  of  another  good  that  is 
subsequently exported;  
 
  2-2(h)  substituted by an identical or similar good used as a material in the 
production of another good that is subsequently exported; or 
 
(i)  substituted by  an identical or similar  good that is subsequently 
exported; and 
 
printed advertising materials means those goods classified in Chapter 49 of the 
Harmonized System, including brochures, pamphlets, leaflets, trade catalogues, 
yearbooks  published  by  trade  associations,  tourist  promotional  materials  and 
posters, that are used to promote, publicise or advertise a good or service, are 
essentially intended to advertise a good or service, and are supplied free of charge.  
 
 
Article 2.2:  Scope 
 
  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter applies to trade 
in goods of a Party. 
 
 
Section B:  National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
 
Article 2.3:  National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Parties 
in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, 
and  to  this  end,  Article  III  of  GATT  1994  and  its  interpretative  notes  are 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.   For  greater  certainty,  the  treatment  to  be  accorded  by  a  Party  under 
paragraph 1 means, with respect to a regional level of government, treatment no 
less  favourable  than  the  most  favourable  treatment  that  the  regional  level  of 
government accords to any like, directly competitive or substitutable goods, as the 
case may be, of the Party of which it forms a part. 
 
3.  Paragraph  1  shall  not  apply  to  the  measures  set  out  in  Annex  2-A 
(National Treatment and Import and Export Restrictions).  
 
 
Article 2.4:  Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
1.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party shall increase any 
existing customs duty, or adopt any new customs duty, on an originating good. 
 
2.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  each  Party  shall 
progressively eliminate its customs duties on originating goods in accordance with 
its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
  2-33.  On request of any Party, the requesting Party and one or more other Parties 
shall consult to consider accelerating the elimination of customs duties set out in 
their Schedules to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
4.  An  agreement  between  two  or  more  of  the  Parties  to  accelerate  the 
elimination of a customs duty on an originating good shall supersede any duty rate 
or staging category determined pursuant to those Parties’ Schedules to Annex 2-D 
(Tariff  Commitments)  for  that  good  once  approved  by  each  Party  to  that 
agreement in accordance with its applicable legal procedures.  The parties to that 
agreement shall inform the other Parties as early as practicable before the new rate 
of customs duty takes effect. 
 
5.  A Party may at any time unilaterally accelerate the elimination of customs 
duties set out in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments) on originating 
goods of one or more of the other Parties.  A Party shall inform the other Parties 
as early as practicable before the new rate of customs duty takes effect. 
 
6.  For greater certainty, no Party shall prohibit an importer from claiming for 
an originating good the rate of customs duty applied under the WTO Agreement.  
 
7.  For greater certainty, a Party may raise a customs duty to the level set out 
in  its  Schedule  to  Annex  2-D  (Tariff  Commitments)  following  a  unilateral 
reduction for the respective year.  
 
 
Article 2.5:  Waiver of Customs Duties 
 
1.  No Party shall adopt any new waiver of a customs duty, or expand with 
respect to an existing recipient or extend to any new recipient the application of an 
existing waiver of a customs duty, that is conditioned, explicitly or implicitly, on 
the fulfilment of a performance requirement. 
 
2.  No Party shall, explicitly or implicitly, condition the continuation of any 
existing waiver of a customs duty on the fulfilment of a performance requirement. 
 
 
Article 2.6:  Goods Re-entered after Repair and Alteration 
 
1.  No Party shall apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, that 
re-enters the Party’s territory after that good has been temporarily exported from 
the  Party’s  territory  to  the  territory  of  another  Party  for  repair  or  alteration, 
regardless of whether that repair or alteration could have been performed in the 
territory of the Party from which the good was exported for repair or alteration or 
increased the value of the good.1 
                                                 
1  For Canada, this paragraph shall not apply to certain ships of Chapter 89 that have been repaired 
or altered.  These ships will be treated in a manner consistent with the notes associated with the 
relevant tariff items in Canada’s Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
  2-4 
2.  No Party shall apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, 
admitted temporarily from the territory of another Party for repair or alteration. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Article, “repair or alteration” does not include an 
operation or process that:  
 
  (a)  destroys  a  good’s  essential  characteristics  or  creates  a  new  or 
commercially different good; or  
 
  (b)  transforms an unfinished good into a finished good. 
 
 
Article 2.7:  Duty-Free Entry of Commercial Samples of Negligible Value and 
Printed Advertising Material 
 
  Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to commercial samples of negligible 
value  and  printed  advertising  material  imported  from  the  territory  of  another 
Party, regardless of their origin, but may require that: 
 
(a)  commercial samples of negligible value be imported solely for the 
solicitation  of  orders  for  goods,  or  services  provided  from  the 
territory, of another Party or a non-Party; or 
 
(b)  printed  advertising  material  be  imported  in  packets  that  each 
contain no more than one copy of the material and that neither that 
material nor those packets form part of a larger consignment. 
 
 
Article 2.8:  Temporary Admission of Goods  
 
1.  Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for the following 
goods, regardless of their origin: 
 
  (a)  professional  equipment,  including  equipment  for  the  press  or 
television,  software,  and  broadcasting  and  cinematographic 
equipment, that is necessary for carrying out the business activity, 
trade or profession of a person who qualifies for temporary entry 
pursuant to the laws of the importing Party; 
 
  (b)  goods intended for display or demonstration; 
 
    (c)   commercial samples and advertising films and recordings; and 
 
  (d)  goods admitted for sports purposes. 
 
  2-52.  Each Party shall, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons its 
customs authority considers valid, extend the time limit for duty-free temporary 
admission beyond the period initially fixed. 
 
3.  No Party shall condition the duty-free temporary admission of the goods 
referred to in paragraph 1, other than to require that those goods: 
 
(a)  be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national of 
another  Party  in  the  exercise  of  the  business  activity,  trade, 
profession or sport of that national of another Party; 
 
(b)  not be sold or leased while in its territory; 
 
(c)   be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the 
charges  that  would  otherwise  be  owed  on  entry  or  final 
importation, releasable on exportation of the goods; 
 
  (d)  be capable of identification when imported and exported; 
 
(e)  be  exported  on  the  departure  of  the  national  referred  to  in 
subparagraph (a), or within any other period reasonably related to 
the  purpose  of  the  temporary  admission  that  the  Party  may 
establish, or within one year, unless extended; 
 
(f)  be  admitted  in  no  greater  quantity  than  is  reasonable  for  their 
intended use; and 
 
  (g)  be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws. 
 
4.  Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for containers and 
pallets regardless of their origin, that are in use or to be used in the shipment of 
goods in international traffic. 
 
(a)  For the purposes of this paragraph, container means an article of 
transport equipment that is: fully or partially enclosed to constitute 
a compartment intended for containing goods; substantial and has 
an internal volume of one cubic metre or more; of a permanent 
character and accordingly strong enough to be suitable for repeated 
use; used in significant numbers in international traffic; specially 
designed to facilitate the carriage of goods by more than one mode 
of transport without intermediate reloading; and designed both for 
ready handling, particularly when being transferred from one mode 
of transport to another, and to be easy to fill and to empty, but does 
  2-6not  include  vehicles,  accessories  or  spare  parts  of  vehicles  or 
packaging.2 
 
(b)  For the purposes of this paragraph, pallet means a small, portable 
platform, which consists of two decks separated by bearers or a 
single  deck  supported  by  feet,  on  which  goods  can  be  moved, 
stacked and stored, and which is designed essentially for handling 
by means of fork lift trucks, pallet trucks or other jacking devices. 
 
5.  If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 3 has not been 
fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would 
normally be owed on the good in addition to any other charges or penalties 
provided for under its law. 
 
6.   Each  Party  shall  adopt  and  maintain  procedures  providing  for  the 
expeditious release of goods admitted under this Article.  To the extent possible, 
those  procedures  shall  provide  that  when  a  good  admitted  under  this  Article 
accompanies a national of another Party who is seeking temporary entry, the good 
shall be released simultaneously with the entry of that national. 
 
7.  Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article to 
be exported through a customs port other than the port through which it was 
admitted. 
 
8.  Each Party shall, in accordance with its law, provide that the importer or 
other person responsible for a good admitted under this Article shall not be liable 
for failure to export the good on presentation of satisfactory proof to the importing 
Party  that  the  good  was  destroyed  within  the  period  fixed  for  temporary 
admission, including any lawful extension. 
 
9.  Subject to Chapter 9 (Investment) and Chapter 10 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services): 
 
(a)  each Party shall allow a vehicle or container used in international 
traffic that enters its territory from the territory of another Party to 
exit  its  territory  on  any  route  that  is  reasonably  related  to  the 
economical and prompt departure of that vehicle or container;3 
 
                                                 
2  Each Party shall eliminate customs duties on containers classified in HS 86.09 that have an 
internal volume of less than one cubic metre on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for 
that Party as set out in that Party’s Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
3  For greater certainty, nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from 
adopting or maintaining highway and railway safety measures of general application, or from 
preventing a vehicle or container from entering or exiting its territory in a location where the Party 
does not maintain a customs port. 
  2-7(b)  no Party shall require any security or impose any penalty or charge 
solely by reason of any difference between the customs port of 
entry and the customs port of departure of a vehicle or container; 
 
(c)  no Party shall condition the release of any obligation, including any 
security, that it imposes in respect of the entry of a vehicle or 
container into its territory on the exit of that vehicle or container 
through any particular customs port of departure; and 
 
(d)  no  Party  shall  require  that  the  vehicle  or  carrier  bringing  a 
container from the   territory of another Party into its territory be 
the same vehicle or carrier that takes that container to the territory 
of that other Party, or to the territory of any other Party. 
 
10.  For the purposes of paragraph 9, vehicle means a truck, a truck tractor, a 
tractor, a trailer unit or trailer, a locomotive, or a railway car or other railroad 
equipment. 
 
 
Article 2.9:  Ad hoc Discussions 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate and notify a contact point in accordance with 
Article 27.5 (Contact Points), to facilitate communications between the Parties on 
any  matter  covered  by  this  Chapter,  including  any  request  or  information 
conveyed under Article 26.5 (Provision of Information) relating to a measure of a 
Party that may affect the operation of this Chapter. 
 
2.  A Party (the requesting Party) may request ad hoc discussions on any 
matter arising under this Chapter (including a specific non-tariff measure) that the 
requesting Party believes may adversely affect its interests in trade in goods, 
except a matter that could be addressed under a Chapter-specific consultation 
mechanism established under another Chapter, by delivering a written request to 
another Party (the requested Party) through its contact point for this Chapter.  The 
request shall be in writing and identify the reasons for the request, including a 
description of the requesting Party’s concerns and an indication of the provisions 
of this Chapter to which the concerns relate.  The requesting Party may provide all 
the other Parties with a copy of the request.  
 
3.  If the requested Party considers that the matter that is the subject of the 
request should be addressed under a Chapter-specific consultation mechanism 
established under another Chapter, it shall promptly notify the contact point for 
this  Chapter  of  the  requesting  Party  and  include  in  its  notice  the  reasons  it 
considers that the request should be addressed under the other mechanism.  The 
requested Party shall promptly forward the request and its notice to the overall 
contact points of the requesting and requested Parties designated under Article 
27.5 (Contact Points) for appropriate action. 
 
  2-84.  Within 30 days of receipt of a request under paragraph 2, the requested 
Party shall provide a written reply to the requesting Party.  Within 30 days of the 
requesting Party’s receipt of the reply, the requesting and requested Parties (the 
discussing Parties) shall meet in person or via electronic means to discuss the 
matter identified in the request.  If the discussing Parties choose to meet in person, 
the meeting shall take place in the territory of the requested Party, unless the 
discussing Parties decide otherwise. 
 
5.  Any  Party  may  submit  a  written  request  to  the  discussing  Parties  to 
participate in the ad hoc discussions.  If the matter has not been resolved prior to 
the receipt of a Party’s request to participate and the discussing Parties agree, the 
Party may participate in these ad hoc discussions subject to any conditions that 
the discussing Parties may decide. 
 
6.  If the requesting Party believes that the matter is urgent, it may request 
that ad hoc discussions take place within a shorter time frame than that provided 
for under paragraph 4.  Any Party may request urgent ad hoc discussions if a 
measure: 
 
(a)  is applied without prior notice or without an opportunity for a Party 
to avail itself of ad hoc discussions under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4; 
and  
 
(b)  may threaten to impede the importation, sale or distribution of an 
originating good which is in the process of being transported from 
the exporting Party to the importing Party, or has not been released 
from customs control, or is in storage in a warehouse regulated by 
the customs administration of the importing Party.  
 
7.  Ad hoc discussions under this Article shall be confidential and without 
prejudice to the rights of any Party, including being without prejudice to rights 
pertaining  to  dispute  settlement  proceedings  under  Chapter  28  (Dispute 
Settlement). 
 
 
Article 2.10:  Import and Export Restrictions 
 
1.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement,  no Party  shall adopt or 
maintain any prohibition or restriction on the importation of any good of another 
Party or on the exportation or sale for export of any good destined for the territory 
of another Party, except in accordance with Article XI of GATT 1994 and its 
interpretative  notes,  and  to  this  end  Article  XI  of  GATT  1994  and  its 
interpretative  notes  are  incorporated  into  and  made  part  of  this  Agreement, 
mutatis mutandis. 
 
  2-92.  The  Parties  understand  that  GATT  1994  rights  and  obligations 
incorporated by paragraph 1 prohibit, in any circumstances in which any other 
form of restriction is prohibited, a Party from adopting or maintaining:  
 
(a)  export  and  import  price  requirements,  except  as  permitted  in 
enforcement of countervailing and antidumping duty orders and 
undertakings;  
 
(b)  import licensing conditioned on the fulfilment of a performance 
requirement; or  
 
(c)  voluntary export restraints inconsistent with Article VI of GATT 
1994, as implemented under Article 18 of the SCM Agreement and 
Article 8.1 of the AD Agreement.  
 
3.  For greater certainty, paragraph 1 applies to the importation of commercial 
cryptographic goods.   
 
4.  For the purposes of paragraph 3:  
 
commercial  cryptographic  goods  means  any  good  implementing  or 
incorporating cryptography, if the good is not designed or modified specifically 
for government use and is sold or otherwise made available to the public. 
 
5.  Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the measures set out in Annex 2-A 
(National Treatment and Import and Export Restrictions).  
 
6.  In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on 
the importation from or exportation to a non-Party of a good, no provision of this 
Agreement shall be construed to prevent that Party from:  
 
(a)   limiting or prohibiting the importation of the good of the non-Party 
from the territory of another Party; or 
 
(b)   requiring, as a condition for exporting the good of that Party to the 
territory of another Party, that the good not be re-exported to the 
non-Party, directly or indirectly, without being consumed in the 
territory of the other Party.  
 
7.  In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on 
the importation of a good from a non-Party, the Parties, on the request of any 
Party, shall consult with a view to avoiding undue interference with or distortion 
of pricing, marketing, or distribution arrangements in another Party. 
 
  2-108.  No  Party  shall,  as  a  condition  for  engaging  in  importation  or  for  the 
importation of a good, require a person of another Party to establish or maintain a 
contractual or other relationship with a distributor in its territory.4 
 
9.  For greater certainty, paragraph 8 does not prevent a Party from requiring 
a person referred to in that paragraph to designate a point of contact for the 
purpose of facilitating communications between its regulatory authorities and that 
person. 
 
10.  For the purposes of paragraph 8:  
 
distributor means a person of a Party who is responsible for the commercial 
distribution, agency, concession or representation in the territory of that Party of 
goods of another Party. 
 
 
Article 2.11:  Remanufactured Goods 
 
1.  For greater certainty, Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) shall 
apply to prohibitions and restrictions on the importation of remanufactured goods.  
 
2.  If  a  Party  adopts  or  maintains  measures  prohibiting  or  restricting  the 
importation of used goods, it shall not apply those measures to remanufactured 
goods.5, 6 
 
 
Article 2.12:  Import Licensing 
 
1.  No Party shall adopt or maintain a measure that is inconsistent with the 
Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
2.  Promptly after this Agreement enters into force for a Party, that Party shall 
notify the other Parties of its existing import licensing procedures, if any.  The 
notice  shall  include  the  information  specified  in  Article  5.2  of  the  Import 
Licensing Agreement and any information required under paragraph 6. 
 
                                                 
4  This paragraph shall not apply to the importation or distribution of rice and paddy in Malaysia. 
5  For greater certainty, subject to its obligations under this Agreement and the WTO Agreement, a 
Party may require that remanufactured goods: 
 
(a)  be identified as such for distribution or sale in its territory; and 
 
(b)  meet all applicable technical requirements that apply to equivalent goods in new 
condition. 
 
6  This paragraph shall not apply to the treatment of certain remanufactured goods by Viet Nam as 
set out in Annex 2-B (Remanufactured Goods). 
  2-113.  A  Party  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in  compliance  with  the  obligations  in 
paragraph 2 with respect to an existing import licensing procedure if: 
 
(a)  it has notified that procedure to the WTO Committee on Import 
Licensing  provided  for  in  Article  4  of  the  Import  Licensing 
Agreement together with the information specified in Article 5.2 of 
that agreement; 
 
(b)  in the most recent annual submission due before the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement for that Party to the WTO Committee 
on Import Licensing in response to the annual questionnaire on 
import licensing procedures described in Article 7.3 of the Import 
Licensing  Agreement,  it  has  provided,  with  respect  to  that 
procedure, the information requested in that questionnaire; and 
 
(c)  it has included in either the notice described in subparagraph (a) or 
the  annual  submission  described  in  subparagraph  (b)  any 
information  required  to  be  notified  to  the  other  Parties  under 
paragraph 6.  
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  comply  with  Article  1.4(a)  of  the  Import  Licensing 
Agreement with respect to any new or modified import licensing procedure.  Each 
Party shall also publish on an official government website any information that it 
is required to publish under Article 1.4(a) of the Import Licensing Agreement.  
 
5.  Each  Party  shall  notify  the  other  Parties  of  any  new  import  licensing 
procedures  it  adopts  and  any  modifications  it  makes  to  its  existing  import 
licensing procedures, if possible, no later than 60 days before the new procedure 
or modification takes effect.  In no case shall a Party provide the notification later 
than 60 days after the date of its publication.  The notification shall include any 
information  required  under  paragraph  6.    A  Party  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 
compliance with this obligation if it notifies a new import licensing procedure or a 
modification to an existing import licensing procedure to the WTO Committee on 
Import  Licensing  in  accordance  with  Article  5.1,  5.2  or  5.3  of  the  Import 
Licensing Agreement, and includes in its notification any information required to 
be notified to the other Parties under paragraph 6. 
 
6.         (a)  A notice under paragraph 2, 3 or 5 shall state if, under any import 
licensing procedure that is a subject of the notice: 
 
(i)  the terms of an import licence for any product limit the 
permissible end users of the product; or  
 
(ii)  the  Party  imposes  any  of  the  following  conditions  on 
eligibility for obtaining a licence to import any product: 
 
(A)  membership in an industry association; 
  2-12 
(B)  approval by an industry association of the request 
for an import licence; 
 
(C)  a  history  of  importing  the  product  or  similar 
products; 
 
(D)  minimum importer or end user production capacity; 
 
(E)  minimum importer or end user registered capital; or 
 
(F)  a  contractual  or  other  relationship  between  the 
importer and a distributor in the Party’s territory. 
 
(b)  A  notice  that  states,  under  subparagraph  (a),  that  there  is  a 
limitation on permissible end users or a licence-eligibility condition 
shall: 
 
(i)  list all products for which the end-user limitation or licence-
eligibility condition applies; and 
 
(ii)  describe  the  end-user  limitation  or  licence-eligibility 
condition. 
 
7.  Each Party shall respond within 60 days to a reasonable enquiry from 
another Party concerning its licensing rules and its procedures for the submission 
of an application for an import licence, including the eligibility of persons, firms 
and institutions to make an application, the administrative body or bodies to be 
approached and the list of products subject to the licensing requirement. 
 
8.  If a Party denies an import licence application with respect to a good of 
another Party, it shall, on request of the applicant and within a reasonable period 
after receiving the request, provide the applicant with a written explanation of the 
reason for the denial. 
 
9.  No Party shall apply an import licensing procedure to a good of another 
Party  unless  it  has,  with  respect  to  that  procedure,  met  the  requirements  of 
paragraph 2 or 4, as applicable. 
 
 
Article 2.13:  Transparency in Export Licensing Procedures7 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Article: 
 
export licensing procedure means a requirement that a Party adopts or maintains 
under which an exporter must, as a condition for exporting a good from the 
                                                 
7  The obligations in this Article shall apply only to procedures for applying for an export licence. 
  2-13Party’s  territory,  submit  an  application  or  other  documentation  to  an 
administrative  body  or  bodies,  but  does  not  include  customs  documentation 
required in the normal course of trade or any requirement that must be fulfilled 
prior to introduction of the good into commerce within the Party’s territory. 
 
2.  Within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Agreement for a Party, 
that Party shall notify the other Parties in writing of the publications in which its 
export licensing procedures, if any, are set out, including addresses of relevant 
government  websites.    Thereafter,  each  Party  shall  publish  in  the  notified 
publications  and  websites  any  new  export  licensing  procedure,  or  any 
modification of an export licensing procedure, that it adopts as soon as practicable 
but no later than 30 days after the new procedure or modification takes effect.    
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure that it includes in the publications it notifies under 
paragraph 2: 
 
(a)  the  texts  of  its  export  licensing  procedures,  including  any 
modifications it makes to those procedures;  
 
(b)  the goods subject to each licensing procedure; 
 
(c)  for each procedure, a description of: 
 
(i)  the process for applying for a licence; and 
 
(ii)  any criteria an applicant must meet to be eligible to apply 
for  a  licence,  such  as  possessing  an  activity  licence, 
establishing  or  maintaining  an  investment,  or  operating 
through  a  particular  form  of  establishment  in  a  Party’s 
territory; 
 
(d)  a contact point or points from which interested persons can obtain 
further  information  on  the  conditions  for  obtaining  an  export 
licence; 
 
(e)  the administrative body or bodies to which an application for a 
licence or other relevant documentation must be submitted; 
 
(f)  a description of or a citation to a publication reproducing in full 
any measure or measures that the export licensing procedure is 
designed to implement; 
 
(g)  the period during which each export licensing procedure will be in 
effect, unless the procedure will remain in effect until withdrawn or 
revised in a new publication; 
 
  2-14(h)  if the Party intends to use a licensing procedure to administer an 
export quota, the overall quantity and, if practicable, value of the 
quota and the opening and closing dates of the quota; and 
 
(i)  any exemptions or exceptions available to the public that replace 
the requirement to obtain an export licence, how to request or use 
these exemptions or exceptions and the criteria for them.  
 
4.  Except  where  doing  so  would  reveal  business  proprietary or  other 
confidential information of a particular person, on request of another Party that 
has a substantial trade interest in the matter, a Party shall provide, to the extent 
possible,  the  following  information  regarding  a  particular  export  licensing 
procedure that it adopts or maintains: 
 
(a)  the aggregate number of licences that the Party has granted over a 
recent period that the requesting Party has specified; and 
 
(b)  measures, if any, that the Party has taken in conjunction with the 
licensing procedure to restrict domestic production or consumption 
or to stabilise production, supply or prices for the relevant good. 
 
5.  Nothing in this Article shall be construed in a manner that would require a 
Party to grant an export licence, or that would prevent a Party from implementing 
its  obligations  or  commitments  under  United  Nations  Security  Council 
Resolutions,  as  well  as  multilateral  non-proliferation  regimes,  including:  the 
Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-
Use Goods and Technologies; the Nuclear Suppliers Group; the Australia Group; 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling 
and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, done at Paris, January 
13, 1993; the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and 
Stockpiling  of  Bacteriological  (Biological)  and  Toxin  Weapons  and  on  Their 
Destruction,  done  at  Washington,  London,  and  Moscow,  April  10,  1972;  the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at London, Moscow 
and Washington, July 1, 1968; and the Missile Technology Control Regime. 
 
 
Article 2.14:  Administrative Fees and Formalities 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with Article VIII:1 of GATT 1994 
and its interpretative notes, that all fees and charges of whatever character (other 
than export taxes, customs duties, charges equivalent to an internal tax or other 
internal  charge  applied  consistently  with  Article  III:2  of  GATT  1994,  and 
antidumping  and  countervailing  duties)  imposed  on  or  in  connection  with 
importation  or  exportation  are  limited  in  amount  to  the  approximate  cost  of 
services rendered and do not represent an indirect protection to domestic goods or 
a taxation of imports or exports for fiscal purposes. 
 
  2-152.  No Party shall require consular transactions, including related fees and 
charges, in connection with the importation of a good of another Party. 
 
3.  Each Party shall make publicly available online a current list of the fees 
and charges it imposes in connection with importation or exportation. 
 
4.   No Party shall levy fees and charges on or in connection with importation 
or exportation on an ad valorem basis.8 
 
5.  Each Party shall periodically review its fees and charges, with a view to 
reducing their number and diversity if practicable. 
 
 
Article 2.15:  Export Duties, Taxes or Other Charges 
 
Except as provided for in Annex 2-C (Export Duties, Taxes or Other 
Charges), no Party shall adopt or maintain any duty, tax or other charge on the 
export of any good to the territory of another Party, unless such duty, tax or 
charge  is  adopted  or  maintained  on  that  good  when  destined  for  domestic 
consumption. 
 
 
Article 2.16:  Publication 
 
Each Party shall promptly publish the following information in a non-
discriminatory and easily accessible manner, in order to enable interested parties 
to become acquainted with it: 
 
(a)  importation,  exportation  and  transit  procedures,  including  port, 
airport and other entry-point procedures, and required forms and 
documents; 
 
(b)  applied rates of duties, and taxes of any kind imposed on or in 
connection with importation or exportation; 
 
(c)  rules for the classification or the valuation of products for customs 
purposes; 
 
(d)  laws, regulations and administrative rulings of general application 
relating to rules of origin; 
 
                                                 
8  The Merchandise Processing Fee (MPF) shall be the only fee or charge of the United States to 
which this paragraph shall apply.  In addition, this paragraph shall not apply to any fee or charge 
of the United States until three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for the 
United States.  Further, this paragraph shall not apply to any fee or charge of Mexico on or in 
connection with the importation or exportation of a non-originating good until five years after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for Mexico. 
  2-16(e)  import, export or transit restrictions or prohibitions; 
 
(f)  fees and charges imposed on or in connection with importation, 
exportation or transit; 
 
(g)  penalty  provisions  against  breaches  of  import,  export  or  transit 
formalities; 
 
(h)  appeal procedures; 
 
(i)  agreements or parts of agreements with any country relating to 
importation, exportation or transit; 
 
(j)  administrative  procedures  relating  to  the  imposition  of  tariff 
quotas; and 
 
(k)  correlation  tables  showing  correspondence  between  any  new 
national nomenclature and the previous national nomenclature. 
 
 
Article 2.17:  Trade in Information Technology Products 
 
Each Party shall be a participant in the WTO Ministerial Declaration on 
Trade in Information Technology Products (Information Technology Agreement), 
13 December 1996, and have completed the procedures for modification and 
rectification of its Schedule of Tariff Concessions set out in the Decision of 26 
March  1980,  L/4962,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  2  of  the  Information 
Technology Agreement.9, 10 
 
 
Article 2.18:  Committee on Trade in Goods 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade in Goods (Committee), 
composed of government representatives of each Party.  
 
2.  The Committee shall meet as necessary to consider any matters arising 
under this Chapter.  During the first five  years after entry into force of this 
Agreement, the Committee shall meet no less than once a year. 
 
3.  The Committee’s functions shall include: 
 
                                                 
9  This Article shall not apply to Brunei Darussalam until one year after the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement for Brunei Darussalam.  
 
10  Notwithstanding this Article, Chile and Mexico shall endeavour to become participants in the 
Information Technology Agreement.  The eventual participation of Chile and Mexico in that 
agreement shall be subject to the completion of their respective internal legal procedures. 
  2-17(a)  promoting trade in goods between the Parties, including through 
consultations  on  accelerating  tariff  elimination  under  this 
Agreement and other issues as appropriate; 
 
(b)  addressing barriers to trade in goods between the Parties, other 
than those within the competence of other committees, working 
groups  or  any  other  subsidiary  bodies  established  under  this 
Agreement, especially those related to the application of non-tariff 
measures and, if appropriate, refer these matters to the Commission 
for its consideration;  
 
(c)  reviewing the future amendments to the Harmonized System to 
ensure that each Party’s obligations under this Agreement are not 
altered, including by  establishing, as needed,  guidelines for the 
transposition  of  Parties’  Schedules  to  Annex  2-D  (Tariff 
Commitments) and consulting to resolve any conflicts between:  
 
(i)  amendments  to  the  Harmonized System and Annex 2-D 
(Tariff Commitments); or  
 
(ii)  Annex  2-D  (Tariff  Commitments)  and  national 
nomenclatures; 
 
(d)  consulting  on  and  endeavouring  to  resolve  any  differences  that 
may  arise  between  the  Parties  on  matters  related  to  the 
classification of goods under the Harmonized System and Annex 
2-D (Tariff Commitments); and 
 
(e)  undertaking any additional work that the Commission may assign 
to it. 
 
4.  The  Committee  shall  consult,  as  appropriate,  with  other  committees 
established under this Agreement when addressing issues of relevance to those 
committees. 
 
5.  The Committee shall, within two years of the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement, submit to the Commission an initial report on its work under 
paragraphs 3(a) and 3(b).  In producing this report, the Committee shall consult, 
as  appropriate,  with  the  Committee  on  Agricultural  Trade  established  under 
Article 2.25 (Committee on Agricultural Trade) and the Committee on Textile and 
Apparel Trade Matters established under Chapter 4 (Textile and Apparel Goods) 
of this Agreement on portions of the report of relevance to those committees. 
 
 
   
  2-18Section C:  Agriculture 
 
Article 2.19:  Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
agricultural goods means those goods referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement 
on Agriculture;  
 
export subsidies shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Article 1(e) of 
the Agreement on Agriculture, including any amendment of that Article; 
 
modern biotechnology means the application of: 
 
(a)  in  vitro  nucleic  acid  techniques,  including  recombinant 
deoxyribonucleic acid (rDNA) and direct injection of nucleic acid 
into cells or organelles; or 
 
(b)  fusion of cells beyond the taxonomic family,  
 
that overcome natural physiological reproductive or recombinant barriers and that 
are not techniques used in traditional breeding and selection; and 
 
products of modern biotechnology means agricultural goods, as well as fish and 
fish products11, developed using modern biotechnology, but does not include 
medicines and medical products. 
 
 
Article 2.20:  Scope 
 
This Section shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party 
relating to trade in agricultural goods. 
 
 
Article 2.21:  Agricultural Export Subsidies 
 
1.  The Parties share the objective of the multilateral elimination of export 
subsidies for agricultural goods and shall work together to achieve an agreement 
in the WTO to eliminate those subsidies and prevent their reintroduction in any 
form. 
  
2.  No Party shall adopt or maintain any export subsidy on any agricultural 
good destined for the territory of another Party.12   
                                                 
11  For the purposes of Article 2.27 (Trade of Products of Modern Biotechnology) and the 
definition of “products of modern biotechnology”, “fish and fish products” are defined as products 
in Chapter 3 of the Harmonized System.  
 
  2-19Article 2.22:  Export Credits, Export Credit Guarantees or Insurance 
Programmes 
 
Recognising  the  ongoing  work  in  the  WTO  in  the  area  of  export 
competition and that export competition remains a key priority in multilateral 
negotiations,  Parties  shall  work  together  in  the  WTO  to  develop  multilateral 
disciplines to govern the provision of export credits, export credit guarantees and 
insurance  programmes,  including  disciplines  on  matters  such  as  transparency, 
self-financing and repayment terms. 
 
 
Article 2.23:  Agricultural Export State Trading Enterprises 
 
The Parties shall work  together toward an  agreement in the WTO on 
export state trading enterprises that requires:  
 
(a)  the elimination of trade distorting restrictions on the authorisation 
to export agricultural goods;  
 
(b)  the elimination of any special financing that a WTO Member grants 
directly or indirectly to state trading enterprises that export for sale 
a significant share of the Member’s total exports of an agricultural 
good; and 
 
(c)  greater transparency regarding the operation and maintenance of 
export state trading enterprises. 
 
 
Article 2.24:  Export Restrictions – Food Security 
1.  Parties recognise that under Article XI:2(a) of GATT 1994, a Party may 
temporarily apply an export prohibition or restriction that is otherwise prohibited 
under Article XI:1 of GATT 1994 on foodstuffs13 to prevent or relieve a critical 
shortage of foodstuffs, subject to meeting the conditions set out in Article 12.1 of 
the Agreement on Agriculture. 
2.  In addition to the conditions set out in Article 12.1 of the Agreement on 
Agriculture under which a Party may apply an export prohibition or restriction, 
other than a duty, tax or other charge, on foodstuffs: 
(a)  a Party that: 
(i)  imposes such a prohibition or restriction on the exportation 
or sale for export of foodstuffs to another Party to prevent 
                                                 
12  For greater certainty and without prejudice to any Party’s position in the WTO, this Article does 
not cover measures referred to in Article 10 of the Agreement on Agriculture. 
13  For the purpose of this Article, foodstuffs include fish and fisheries products, intended for 
human consumption.  
  2-20or relieve a critical shortage of foodstuffs, shall in all cases 
notify the measure to the other Parties prior to the date it 
takes effect and, except when the critical shortage is caused 
by  an  event  constituting  force  majeure,  shall  notify  the 
measure to the other Parties at least 30 days prior to the date 
it takes effect; or 
(ii)  as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
Party,  maintains  such  a  prohibition  or  restriction,  shall, 
within 30 days of that date, notify the measure to the other 
Parties. 
(b)  A notification under this paragraph shall include the reasons for 
imposing or maintaining the prohibition or restriction, as well as an 
explanation of how the measure is consistent with Article XI:2(a) 
of GATT 1994, and shall note alternative measures, if any, that the 
Party considered before imposing the prohibition or restriction. 
(c)  A measure shall not be subject to notification under this paragraph 
or paragraph 4 if it prohibits or restricts the exportation or sale for 
export  only  of  a  foodstuff  or  foodstuffs  of  which  the  Party 
imposing the measure has been a net importer during each of the 
three  calendar  years  preceding  the  imposition  of  the  measure, 
excluding the year in which the Party imposes the measure. 
(d)  If  a  Party  that  adopts  or  maintains  a  measure  referred  to  in 
subparagraph (a) has been a net importer of each foodstuff subject 
to that measure during each of the three calendar years preceding 
imposition of the measure, excluding the year in which the Party 
imposes the measure, and that Party does not provide the other 
Parties with a notification under subparagraph (a), the Party shall, 
within a reasonable period of time, provide to the other Parties 
trade data demonstrating that it was a net importer of the foodstuff 
or foodstuffs during these three calendar years. 
3.  A Party that is required to notify a measure under paragraph 2(a) shall: 
(a)  consult,  on  request,  with  any  other  Party  having  a  substantial 
interest as an importer of the foodstuffs subject to the measure, 
with respect to any matter relating to the measure; 
(b)  on the request of any  Party having a substantial interest as  an 
importer  of  the  foodstuffs  subject  to  the  measure,  provide  that 
Party  with  relevant  economic  indicators  bearing  on  whether  a 
critical shortage within the meaning of Article XI:2(a) of GATT 
1994 exists or is likely to occur in the absence of the measure, and 
on how the measure will prevent or relieve the critical shortage; 
and 
  2-21(c)  respond  in  writing  to  any  question  posed  by  any  other  Party 
regarding the measure within 14 days of receipt of the question. 
 
4.  A Party which considers that another Party should have notified a measure 
under paragraph 2(a) may bring the matter to the attention of that other Party.  If 
the  matter  is  not  satisfactorily  resolved  promptly  thereafter,  the  Party  which 
considers that the measure should have been notified may itself bring the measure 
to the attention of the other Parties.  
5.  A Party should ordinarily terminate a measure subject to notification under 
paragraph  2(a)  or  4  within  six  months  of  the  date  it  is  imposed.    A  Party 
contemplating continuation of a measure beyond six months from the date it is 
imposed shall notify the other Parties no later than five months after the date the 
measure is imposed and provide the information specified in paragraph 2(b).  
Unless the Party has consulted with the other Parties that are net importers of any 
foodstuff the exportation of which is prohibited or restricted under the measure, 
the Party shall not continue the measure beyond 12 months from the date it is 
imposed.  The Party shall immediately discontinue the measure when the critical 
shortage, or threat thereof, ceases to exist. 
6.  No Party shall apply any measure that is subject to notification under 
paragraph 2(a) or 4 to food purchased for non-commercial humanitarian purposes. 
 
 
Article 2.25:  Committee on Agricultural Trade 
1.  The  Parties  hereby  establish  a  Committee  on  Agricultural  Trade, 
composed of government representatives of each Party. 
 
2.  The Committee on Agricultural Trade shall provide a forum for: 
 
(a)  promoting trade in agricultural goods between the Parties under 
this Agreement and other issues as appropriate; 
 
(b)  monitoring and promoting cooperation on the implementation and 
administration  of  this  Section,  including  notification  of  export 
restrictions  on  foodstuffs  as  stipulated  in  Article  2.24  (Export 
Restrictions – Food Security), and discussing the cooperative work 
identified in Article 2.21 (Agricultural Export Subsidies), Article 
2.22  (Export  Credits,  Export  Credit  Guarantees  or  Insurance 
Programmes) and Article 2.23 (Agricultural Export State Trading 
Enterprises); 
  
(c)  consultation among the Parties on matters related to this Section in 
coordination with other committees, working groups or any other 
subsidiary bodies established under this Agreement; and 
  
  2-22(d)  undertaking any additional work that the Committee on Trade in 
Goods and the Commission may assign. 
  
3.  The Committee on Agricultural Trade shall meet as necessary.  During the 
first  five  years  after  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement,  the  Committee  on 
Agricultural Trade shall meet no less than once a year. 
 
 
Article 2.26:  Agricultural Safeguards 
 
Originating agricultural goods from any Party shall not be subject to any 
duties  applied  by  a  Party  pursuant  to  a  special  safeguard  taken  under  the 
Agreement on Agriculture. 
 
 
Article 2.27:  Trade of Products of Modern Biotechnology 
 
1.  The  Parties  confirm  the  importance  of  transparency,  cooperation  and 
exchanging information related to the trade of products of modern biotechnology.  
 
2.  Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from adopting measures in 
accordance with its rights and obligations under the WTO Agreement or other 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Article shall require a Party to adopt or modify its laws, 
regulations  and  policies  for  the  control  of  products  of  modern  biotechnology 
within its territory. 
 
4.  Each Party shall, when available and subject to its laws, regulations and 
policies, make available publicly:  
 
(a)  any documentation requirements for completing an application for 
the authorisation of a product of modern biotechnology;  
 
(b)  a summary of any risk or safety assessment that has led to the 
authorisation of a product of modern biotechnology; and 
 
(c)  a list or lists of the products of modern biotechnology that have 
been authorised in its territory. 
 
5.  Each Party shall designate and notify a contact point or contact points for 
the  sharing  of  information  on  issues  related  to  low  level  presence  (LLP)14 
occurrences, in accordance with Article 27.5 (Contact Points).  
                                                 
14  For the purposes of this Article, “LLP occurrence” means the inadvertent low level presence in 
a shipment of plants or plant products, except for a plant or plant product that is a medicine or 
medical product, of rDNA plant material that is authorised for use in at least one country, but not 
in the importing country, and if authorised for food use, a food safety assessment has been done 
  2-23 
6.  In order to address an LLP occurrence, and with a view to preventing a 
future LLP occurrence, on request of an importing Party, an exporting Party shall, 
when available and subject to its laws, regulations and policies: 
 
(a)  provide a summary of the risk or safety assessment or assessments, 
if any, that the exporting Party conducted in connection with an 
authorisation of a specific plant product of modern biotechnology; 
 
(b)  provide, if known to the exporting Party, contact information for 
any entity within its territory that received authorisation for the 
plant  product  of  modern  biotechnology  and  which  the  Party 
believes is likely to possess: 
 
(i)  any validated methods that exist for the detection of the 
plant product of modern biotechnology found at a low level 
in a shipment; 
 
(ii)  any reference samples necessary for the detection of the 
LLP occurrence; and 
 
(iii)  relevant information that can be used by the importing Party 
to conduct a risk or safety assessment or, if a food safety 
assessment is appropriate, relevant information for a food 
safety assessment in accordance with Annex 3 of the Codex 
Guideline for the Conduct of Food Safety Assessment of 
Foods Derived from Recombinant-DNA Plants (CAC/GL 
45-2003); and 
 
(c)  encourage an entity referred to in subparagraph (b) to share the 
information referred to in subparagraphs (b)(i), (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) 
with the importing Party. 
 
7.  In the event of an LLP occurrence, the importing Party shall, subject to its 
laws, regulations and policies:  
 
(a)  inform the importer or the importer’s agent of the LLP occurrence 
and of any additional information that the importer will be required 
to submit to allow the importing Party to make a decision on the 
disposition of the shipment in which the LLP occurrence has been 
found;   
 
(b)  if available, provide to the exporting Party a summary of any risk 
or  safety  assessment  that  the  importing  Party  has  conducted  in 
connection with the LLP occurrence; and 
                                                 
based on the Codex Guideline for the Conduct of a Food Safety Assessment of Foods Derived from 
Recombinant-DNA Plants (CAC/GL 45-2003). 
  2-24 
(c)  ensure that the measures15 applied to address the LLP occurrence 
are appropriate to achieve compliance with its laws, regulations and 
policies. 
 
8.  To reduce the likelihood of trade disruptions from LLP occurrences: 
 
(a)  each exporting Party shall, consistent with its laws, regulations and 
policies, endeavour to encourage technology developers to submit 
applications to Parties for authorisation of plants and plant 
products of modern biotechnology; and 
 
(b)  a Party authorising plant and plant products derived from modern 
biotechnology shall endeavour to: 
 
(i)  allow year-round submission and review of applications for 
authorisation of plants and plant products of modern 
biotechnology; and 
 
(ii)  increase communications between the Parties regarding 
new authorisations of plants and plant products of modern 
biotechnology so as to improve global information 
exchange. 
   
9.   The  Parties  hereby  establish  a  working  group  on  products  of  modern 
biotechnology (Working Group) under the Committee on Agricultural Trade for 
information exchange and cooperation on trade-related matters associated with 
products of modern biotechnology.  The Working Group shall be comprised of 
government representatives of Parties that inform, in writing, the Committee on 
Agricultural Trade that they will participate in the Working Group and name one 
or more government representatives to the Working Group.  
 
10.  The Working Group shall provide a forum to:  
 
(a)  exchange,  subject  to  a  Party’s  laws,  regulations  and  policies, 
information  on  issues,  including  on  actual  and  proposed  laws, 
regulations and policies, related to the trade of products of modern 
biotechnology; and 
 
(b)  further enhance cooperation between two or more Parties, when 
there is mutual interest, related to the trade of products of modern 
biotechnology. 
 
 
   
                                                 
15  For the purposes of this paragraph, “measures” does not include penalties. 
  2-25Section D:  Tariff-Rate Quota Administration 
 
 
Article 2.28:  Scope and General Provisions 
 
1.  Each Party shall implement and administer tariff-rate quotas (TRQs16) in 
accordance with Article XIII of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, the 
Import Licensing Agreement and Article 2.12 (Import Licensing).  All TRQs 
established by a Party under this Agreement shall be incorporated into that Party’s 
Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that its procedures for administering its TRQs are 
made available to the public, are fair and equitable, are no more administratively 
burdensome than absolutely necessary, are responsive to market conditions and 
are administered in a timely manner.   
 
3.  The Party administering a TRQ shall publish all information concerning its 
TRQ administration, including the size of quotas and eligibility requirements; and, 
if the TRQ will be allocated, application procedures, the application deadline, and 
the methodology or procedures that will be used for the allocation or reallocation, 
on its designated publicly available website at least 90 days prior to the opening 
date of the TRQ concerned.  
 
 
Article 2.29:  Administration and Eligibility  
 
1.  Each Party shall administer its TRQs in a manner that allows importers the 
opportunity to utilise TRQ quantities fully. 
 
2.        (a)  Except as provided in subparagraphs (b) and (c), no Party shall 
introduce  a  new  or  additional  condition,  limit  or  eligibility 
requirement on the utilisation of a TRQ for importation of a good, 
including in relation to specification or grade, permissible end-use 
of the imported product or package size, beyond those set out in its 
Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments).17 
 
(b)  A Party seeking to introduce a new or additional condition, limit or 
eligibility requirement on the utilisation of a TRQ for importation 
of a good shall notify the other Parties at least 45 days prior to the 
proposed effective date of the new or additional condition, limit or 
                                                 
16  For the purposes of this Section, TRQs means only TRQs that are established under this 
Agreement as set out in a Party’s Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments).  For greater 
certainty, this Section shall not apply to TRQs set out in a Party’s Schedule to the WTO 
Agreement. 
 
17  For greater certainty, this paragraph shall not apply to conditions, limits or eligibility 
requirements that apply regardless of whether or not the importer utilises the TRQ when importing 
the good. 
  2-26eligibility  requirement.    Any  Party  with  a  demonstrable 
commercial interest in supplying the good may submit a written 
request for consultations to the Party seeking to introduce the new 
or additional condition, limit or eligibility requirement.  On receipt 
of such a request for consultations, the Party seeking to introduce 
the new or  additional condition, limit or eligibility  requirement 
shall  promptly  undertake  consultations  with  the  Party  that 
submitted  the  request,  in  accordance  with  Article  2.32.6 
(Transparency).   
 
(c)  The Party seeking to introduce the new or additional condition, 
limit or eligibility requirement may do so if: 
 
(i)  it  has  consulted  with  any  Party  with  a  demonstrable 
commercial  interest  in  supplying  the  good  that  has 
submitted a written request for consultations pursuant to 
subparagraph (b); and 
 
(ii)  no  Party  with  a  demonstrable  commercial  interest  in 
supplying  the  good  that  submitted  a  written  request  for 
consultations pursuant to subparagraph (b) objected, after 
the consultation, to the introduction of the new or additional 
condition, limit or eligibility requirement. 
 
(d)  A new or additional condition, limit or eligibility requirement that 
is the outcome of any consultation held pursuant to subparagraph 
(c), shall be circulated to the Parties prior to its implementation. 
 
 
Article 2.30:  Allocation18 
 
1.  In  the  event  that  access  under  a  TRQ  is  subject  to  an  allocation 
mechanism, each importing Party shall ensure that:  
 
(a)  any person of a Party that fulfils the importing Party’s eligibility 
requirements is able to apply and to be considered for a quota 
allocation under the TRQ; 
 
(b)  unless otherwise agreed, it does not allocate any portion of the 
quota to a producer group, condition access to an allocation on the 
purchase of domestic production or limit access to an allocation to 
processors; 
 
                                                 
18  For the purposes of this Section, “allocation mechanism” means any system where access to the 
TRQ is granted on a basis other than first-come first-served. 
  2-27(c)  each allocation is made in commercially viable shipping quantities 
and, to the maximum extent possible, in the amounts that importers 
request;   
 
(d)  an allocation for in-quota imports is applicable to any tariff lines 
subject to the TRQ and is valid throughout the TRQ year;  
 
(e)  if the aggregate TRQ quantity requested by applicants exceeds the 
quota size, allocation to eligible applicants shall be conducted by 
equitable and transparent methods;  
 
(f)  applicants  have  at  least  four  weeks  after  the  opening  of  the 
application period to submit their applications; and  
 
(g)  quota allocation takes place no later than four weeks before the 
opening of the quota period, unless the allocation is based in whole 
or  in  part  on  import  performance  during  the  12-month  period 
immediately preceding the quota period.  If the Party bases the 
allocation in whole or in part on import performance during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the quota period, the Party 
shall make a provisional allocation of the full quota amount no later 
than four weeks before the opening of the quota period.  All final 
allocation decisions, including any revisions, shall be made and 
communicated to applicants by the beginning of the quota period. 
 
2.  During the first TRQ year that this Agreement is in force for a Party, if 
less than 12 months remain in the TRQ year on the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement for that Party, the Party shall make available to quota applicants, 
beginning on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party, the 
quota quantity established in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments), 
multiplied  by  a  fraction  the  numerator  of  which  shall  be  a  whole  number 
consisting of the number of months remaining in the TRQ year on the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement for that Party, including the entirety of the 
month  in  which  this  Agreement  enters  into  force  for  that  Party,  and  the 
denominator of which shall be 12.  The Party shall make the entire quota quantity 
established in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments) available to quota 
applicants beginning on the first day of each TRQ year thereafter that the quota is 
in operation. 
 
3.  The Party administering a TRQ shall not require the re-export of a good as 
a condition for application for, or utilisation of, a quota allocation.  
 
4.  Any quantity of goods imported under a TRQ under this Agreement shall 
not be counted towards, or reduce the quantity of, any other TRQ provided for 
  2-28such goods in a Party’s Schedule to the WTO Agreement or under any other trade 
agreements.19 
 
 
Article 2.31:  Return and Reallocation of TRQs 
 
1.  When a TRQ is administered by an allocation mechanism, a Party shall 
ensure  that  there  is  a  mechanism  for  the  return  and  reallocation  of  unused 
allocations in a timely and transparent manner that provides the greatest possible 
opportunity for the TRQ to be filled.  
 
2.  Each Party shall publish on a regular basis on its designated publicly 
available website all information concerning amounts allocated, amounts returned 
and, if available, quota utilisation rates.  In addition, each Party shall publish on 
the same website amounts available for reallocation and the application deadline, 
at least two weeks prior to the date on which the Party will begin accepting 
applications for reallocations. 
 
 
Article 2.32:  Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall identify the entity or entities responsible for administering 
its TRQs and designate and notify at least one contact point, in accordance with 
Article 27.5 (Contact Points), to facilitate communications between the Parties on 
matters relating to the administration of its TRQs.  Each Party shall promptly 
notify the other Parties of any amendments to the details of its contact point. 
 
2.  When a TRQ is administered by an allocation mechanism, the name and 
address  of  allocation  holders  shall  be  published  on  the  designated  publicly 
available website. 
 
3.  When a TRQ is administered on a first-come, first-served basis, over the 
course of each year, the importing Party’s administering authority shall publish, in 
a timely and continually on-going manner on its designated publicly available 
website, utilisation rates and remaining available quantities for each TRQ. 
 
4.  When a TRQ of an importing Party that is administered on a first-come, 
first-served  basis  fills,  that  Party  shall  publish  a  notice  to  this  effect  on  its 
designated publicly available website within 10 days.  
 
                                                 
19  For greater certainty, nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Party from applying a different 
in-quota rate of customs duty to goods from other Parties, as set out in that Party’s Schedule to 
Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments), than that applied to the same goods of non-Parties under a TRQ 
established under the WTO Agreement.  Further, nothing in this paragraph requires a Party to 
change the in-quota quantity of any TRQ established under the WTO Agreement. 
  2-295.  When a TRQ of an importing Party that is administered by an allocation 
mechanism fills, that Party shall publish a notice to this effect on its designated 
publicly available website as early as practicable. 
 
6.  On  written  request  of  an  exporting  Party  or  Parties,  the  Party 
administrating a TRQ shall consult with the requesting Party or Parties regarding 
the administration of its TRQ. 
  2-30 
 
ANNEX 2-A 
 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND IMPORT AND EXPORT 
RESTRICTIONS 
 
 
1.  For  greater  certainty,  nothing  in  this  Annex  shall  affect  the  rights  or 
obligations of any Party under the WTO Agreement with respect to any measure 
listed in this Annex. 
 
2.  Article  2.3.1  (National  Treatment),  Article  2.10.1  (Import  and  Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to the continuation, renewal, or 
amendment made to any law, statute, decree or administrative regulations giving 
rise to a measure set out in this Annex to the extent that the continuation, renewal, 
or amendment does not decrease the conformity of the measure listed with Article 
2.3 (National Treatment) and Article 2.10 (Import and Export Restrictions). 
 
 
Measures of Brunei Darussalam  
 
  Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to the goods specified in section 31 of Customs Order 2006. 
 
 
Measures of Canada 
 
1.  Article  2.3.1  (National  Treatment),  Article  2.10.1  (Import  and  Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  the export of logs of all species; 
 
(b)  the export of unprocessed fish pursuant to applicable provincial 
legislation; 
 
(c)  the importation of goods of the prohibited provisions of tariff items 
9897.00.00, 9898.00.00 and 9899.00.00 referred to in the Schedule 
of the Customs Tariff; 
 
(d)  Canadian excise duties on absolute alcohol, as listed under tariff 
item 2207.10.90 in Canada’s Schedule of Concessions annexed to 
GATT  1994  (Schedule  V),  used  in  manufacturing  under  the 
provisions of the Excise Act, 2001, Statutes of Canada 2002, c.22, 
as amended;  
 
(e)  the use of ships in the coasting trade of Canada; and 
  2-31 
(f)  the internal sale and distribution of wine and distilled spirits.  
 
2.  Article 2.3.1 (National Treatment) shall not apply, as specified in Article 
2.3.3, to a measure affecting the production, publication, exhibition or sale of 
goods20 that  supports  the  creation,  development  or  accessibility  of  Canadian 
artistic expression or content. 
 
 
Measures of Chile 
 
  Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to measures of Chile relating to imports of used vehicles. 
 
 
Measures of Mexico  
 
1.  Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply: 
 
(a)  to restrictions pursuant to Article 48 of the Hydrocarbons Law (Ley 
de Hidrocarburos) published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on August 11, 2014, on the exportation 
from Mexico of the goods provided for in the following items of 
Mexico’s tariff schedule of the General Import and Export Duties 
Law (Tarifa de la Ley de los Impuestos Generales de Importación 
y de Exportación) published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on June 18, 2007 and June 29, 2012:  
 
HS 2012  Description 
2709.00.01  Crude petroleum oils 
2709.00.99  Other 
2710.12.04  Gasoline, excluding those of code 2710.12.03 
2710.19.04  Gasoil (diesel) or diesel oil and mixtures thereof 
2710.19.05  Fuel oil 
2710.19.07  Paraffin oil 
2710.19.08  Turbosine (kerosene, lamp oil) and blends thereof 
2710.19.99  Other 
2711.11.01  Natural gas 
2711.12.01  Propane 
2711.13.01  Butanes 
2711.19.01  Butane and propane, mixed and liquefied 
2711.19.99  Other 
2711.21.01  Natural gas 
                                                 
20  Such goods include books, magazines, and media carrying video or music recordings. 
  2-322711.29.99  Other 
2712.20.01  Paraffin wax containing less than 0.75% of oil, by 
weight 
2712.90.02  Microcrystalline waxes 
2712.90.04  Waxes, excluding those of codes 2712.90.01 and 
2712.90.02 
2712.90.99  Other 
 
(b)  during  the  period  prior  to  January  1,  2019,  to  prohibitions  or 
restrictions on the importation into Mexico of gasoline and diesel 
fuel set forth in Article 123 of the Hydrocarbons Law (Ley de 
Hidrocarburos), published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on August 11, 2014; and 
 
(c)  to prohibitions or restrictions on the importation into Mexico of 
used tyres, used apparel, used vehicles and used chassis equipped 
with vehicle motors set forth in paragraphs 1(I) and 5 of Annex 
2.2.1 of the Resolution through which the Ministry of Economy 
establishes  Rules  and  General  Criteria  on  International  Trade 
(Acuerdo por el que la Secretaría de Economía emite reglas y 
criterios de carácter general en materia de Comercio Exterior), 
published  in  Mexico’s  Official  Gazette  (Diario  Oficial  de  la 
Federación) on December 31, 2012. 
 
2.  The  Commission  shall  review  paragraph  1(a)  pursuant  to  any  review 
conducted under Article 27.2.1(b) (Functions of the Commission). 
 
 
Measures of Peru 
 
  Article  2.3.1  (National  Treatment),  Article  2.10.1  (Import  and  Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to:  
 
(a)   used clothing and footwear pursuant to Law No. 28514 of May 23, 
2005; 
 
(b)   used vehicles and used automotive engines, parts and replacements 
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 843 of August 30, 1996, Urgent 
Decree No. 079-2000 of September 20, 2000, Urgent Decree No. 
050-2008 of December 18, 2008; 
 
(c)   used tyres pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 003-97-SA of June 7, 
1997; and 
 
(d)  used goods, machinery and equipment which utilise radioactive 
energy sources pursuant to Law No. 27757 of June 19, 2002. 
 
  2-33 
Measures of the United States  
 
  Article  2.3.1  (National  Treatment),  Article  2.10.1  (Import  and  Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to:  
 
  (a)  controls on the export of logs of all species; and 
 
(b)  measures under existing provisions of the Merchant Marine Act of 
1920, the Passenger Vessel Act, and 46 U.S.C. § 12102, § 12113, 
and § 12116, to the extent that such measures were mandatory 
legislation at the time of the accession of the United States to the 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1947 (GATT 1947) and 
have not been amended so as to decrease their conformity with Part 
II of GATT 1947.  
 
 
Measures of Viet Nam 
  Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to:  
 
(a)  a prohibition on importation, set out in Decree No. 187/2013/ND-
CP dated 20 November 2013 of the Government of Viet Nam or 
Circular  No.  04/2014/TT-BCT  dated  27  January  2014  of  the 
Ministry of Industry and Trade guiding the implementation of the 
Decree No. 187/2013/ND-CP, with respect to a good listed in (i) 
through (iv) of this subparagraph.  The goods listed in (i) through 
(iv) of this subparagraph are:  
 
(i)  right-hand drive motor vehicles (including right-hand drive 
motor vehicles modified after manufacture to be left-hand 
drive vehicles), except specialised right-hand drive vehicles 
that generally operate in small areas such as cranes, trench 
and canal digging machines, garbage trucks, road sweepers, 
road  construction  trucks,  airport  passenger  transportation 
buses, fork-lifts used at warehouses and ports;  
 
(ii)  vehicle components usable exclusively in right-hand drive 
motor  vehicles  that  are  not  specialised  right-hand  drive 
vehicles; 
 
(iii)  motor vehicles more than five years old; 
 
(iv)  used:21 
                                                 
21  For greater certainty, this subparagraph does not apply with respect to remanufactured goods, in 
accordance with Article 2.11 (Remanufactured Goods). 
  2-34 
(A)  textiles, clothing and footwear; 
 
(B)  computer printers, fax machines, and computer disk 
drives; 
 
(C)  laptop computers;  
 
(D)  refrigeration equipment; 
 
(E)  household electrical appliances; 
 
(F)  medical equipment; 
 
(G)  furniture; 
 
(H)  household goods made from porcelain, clay, glass, 
metal, resin, rubber, and plastic; 
 
(I)  frames, tyres (outer and inner), tubes, accessories, 
and  engines,  of  automobiles,  tractors,  and  other 
motor vehicles; 
 
(J)  internal combustion engines with a capacity below 
30 CV and machines with an internal combustion 
engine with a capacity below 30 CV; and 
 
(K)  bicycles and tricycles; and 
 
(b)  a prohibition on exportation, set out in Decree No. 187/2013/ND-
CP dated 20 November 2013 of the Government of Viet Nam or 
Circular  No.  04/2014/TT-BCT  dated  27  January  2014  of  the 
Ministry of Industry and Trade guiding the implementation of the 
Decree No. 187/2013/ND-CP, with respect to a good listed in (i) 
and (ii) of this subparagraph.  The goods listed in (i) and (ii) of this 
subparagraph are: 
 
(i)  round  and  sawn  timber  produced  from  domestic  natural 
forests; and 
 
(ii)  wooden  products  (except  handicrafts  and  products 
produced from wood of cultivated forests, imported wood 
or artificial pallet). 
 
 
   
  2-35  Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to the import and export of rough diamonds (HS codes 7102.10, 7102.21 
and 7102.31), pursuant to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and any 
subsequent amendments to that scheme. 
 
  2-36 
 
ANNEX 2-B 
 
REMANUFACTURED GOODS 
 
 
1.  Article 2.11.2 (Remanufactured Goods) shall not apply to measures of 
Viet Nam prohibiting or restricting the importation of remanufactured goods for 
three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Viet Nam.  
Thereafter, Article 2.11.2 (Remanufactured Goods) shall apply to all measures of 
Viet Nam, except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2.  Article 2.11.2 (Remanufactured Goods) shall not apply to a prohibition or 
restriction set out in Decree No. 187/2013/ND-CP dated 20 November 2013 of the 
Government of Viet Nam or Circular No. 04/2014/TT-BCT dated 27 January 2014 
of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the importation of a good listed in Table 
2-B-1.  
 
3.  For greater certainty, Viet Nam shall not:  
 
(a)  apply  any  prohibition  or  restriction  on  the  importation  of  a 
remanufactured good that is more stringent than the prohibition or 
restriction it applies to the importation of the same good when 
used; or 
 
(b)  re-impose any prohibition or restriction on the importation of a 
remanufactured good following the removal of the prohibition or 
restriction. 
 
 
Table 2-B-1 
 
 
  2-37 
 
  2-38 
 
ANNEX 2-C 
 
EXPORT DUTIES, TAXES OR OTHER CHARGES 
 
 
1.  Article 2.15 (Export Duties, Taxes or Other Charges) shall apply to goods 
provided for in the items listed in a Party’s Section to this Annex only as specified 
below. 
 
2.  With respect to a good provided for in an item listed in Section 1 to this 
Annex, Malaysia shall not apply any export duties, taxes or other charges in an 
amount greater than that specified for that item in Section 1 to this Annex.  
 
3.  With respect to a good provided for in an item listed in Section 2 to this 
Annex, Viet Nam shall eliminate any export duties, taxes or other charges in 
accordance with the following categories, as indicated for each item listed in 
Section 2 to this Annex: 
 
(a)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category A may remain in place for five years but shall not 
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 6; 
 
(b)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category B may remain in place for seven years but shall 
not exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, 
tax or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 8; 
 
(c)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category C shall be eliminated in 11 equal annual stages.  
Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax or other charge on 
such goods from January 1 of year 11; 
 
(d)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category D may remain in place for 10 years but shall not 
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 11; 
 
(e)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category E shall be eliminated in 13 equal annual stages.  
Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax or other charge on 
such goods from January 1 of year 13; 
 
(f)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category F may remain in place for 12 years but shall not 
  2-39exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 13; 
 
(g)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category G shall be eliminated in 16 equal annual stages.  
Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax or other charge on 
such goods from January 1 of year 16; 
 
(h)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category H may remain in place for 15 years but shall not 
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 16; 
 
(i)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category I shall be reduced to 20 per cent in six equal, 
annual stages from year 1 to year 6.  From January 1 of year 6 until 
December 31 of year 15, export duties, taxes or other charges on 
such goods shall not exceed 20 per cent.  Viet Nam shall not apply 
any export duty, tax or other charge on such goods from January 1 
of year 16; 
 
(j)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category J shall be reduced to 10 per cent in 11 equal, 
annual stages from year 1 to year 11.  From January 1 of year 11 
until December 31 of year 15, export duties, taxes or other charges 
on such goods shall not exceed 10 per cent.  Viet Nam shall not 
apply any export duty, tax or other charge on such goods from 
January 1 of year 16; and 
 
(k)  export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category K may remain in place but shall not exceed the 
base rate. 
 
4.  For the purposes of paragraph 3 and Section 2 to this Annex, year 1 means 
the year of entry into force of this Agreement for Viet Nam.  Export duties, taxes 
or other charges on goods provided for in the items in categories C, E, G, I and J 
shall be initially reduced on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Viet 
Nam.  From year 2, each annual stage of reduction of export duties, taxes and 
other charges shall take effect on January 1 of the relevant year. 
 
5.  The base rate of export duties, taxes and other charges is indicated for each 
item in this Annex. 
 
6.  Parties that have listed goods in this Annex shall autonomously endeavour 
to  minimise  the  application  and  level  of  their  export  duties,  taxes  and  other 
charges. 
 
  2-40 
Section 1:  Malaysia 
 
                                                 
22  Customs Duties Order 2012 - Customs Act 1967. 
 
23  Malaysian Rubber Board (Incorporation) Act 1996, Malaysian Rubber Board (CESS) Order 
1999 and Malaysian Timber Industry Board (Incorporation) Act 1973 - Timber CESS Order 2000 
[P.U.(A) 56/2000]. 
  2-41  2-42  2-43  2-44  2-45  2-46 
   
  2-47 
Section 2:  Viet Nam 
 
  2-48  2-49  2-50  2-51  2-52  2-53  2-54  2-55  2-56  2-57  2-58  2-59  2-60 
 
  2-61 
 
ANNEX 2-D 
 
TARIFF COMMITMENTS 
 
 
Section A:  Tariff Elimination and Reduction 
 
1.  The base rate of customs duty and staging category for determining the 
interim rate of customs duty at each stage of reduction for an item are indicated 
for that item in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
2.  Interim staged rates shall be rounded down at least to the nearest tenth of a 
percentage point or, if the rate of duty is expressed in monetary units, as specified 
in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
3.  (a)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  for  in  paragraph  4(a),  when  this 
Agreement enters into force for a Party in accordance with Article 
30.5.1 (Entry into Force), Article 30.5.2 or Article 30.5.3: 
 
(i)  the rates of customs duties provided for in any tariff line in 
that Party’s Schedule in any staging category other than 
“EIF” shall be initially reduced on the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for that Party; and  
 
(ii)  except as otherwise provided in that Party’s Schedule, the 
second stage of tariff reduction shall take effect on January 
1 of the following year, and each subsequent annual stage 
of tariff reduction for that Party shall take effect on January 
1 of each subsequent year. 
 
(b)  Except as provided for in paragraph 4(b)(i), when this Agreement 
enters  into  force  for  a  Party  in  accordance  with  Article  30.5.4 
(Entry into Force) and Article 30.5.5: 
 
(i)  on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
Party,  that  Party  shall  implement  all  stages  of  tariff 
reduction that it would have implemented up to that date as 
if this Agreement had entered into force for that Party in 
accordance with Article 30.5.1 (Entry into Force) Article 
30.5.2 or Article 30.5.3; and 
 
(ii)  except as otherwise provided in that Party’s Schedule, the 
next annual stage of tariff reduction following those stages 
implemented in accordance with subparagraph (b)(i) shall 
take effect on January 1 of the year after the date of entry 
  2-62into  force  of  this  Agreement  for  that  Party,  and  each 
subsequent annual stage of tariff reduction for that Party 
shall take effect on January 1 of each subsequent year. 
 
4.  (a)  A  Party  for  which  this  Agreement  has  entered  into  force  in 
accordance with Article 30.5.1 (Entry into Force), Article 30.5.2 or 
Article 30.5.3 (original Party) may elect, with respect to a Party for 
which the Agreement has entered into force in accordance with 
Article 30.5.4 or Article 30.5.5 (new Party), either to:  
 
(i)  apply its Schedule to this Annex as if this Agreement had 
entered into force for both Parties on the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for that new Party; or 
 
(ii)   apply its Schedule to this Annex as if this Agreement had 
entered into force for both Parties on the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for that original Party.  
 
(b)  If the original Party applies its Schedule as if this Agreement had 
entered into force for both Parties on the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement for the new Party pursuant to subparagraph (a)(i), 
that new Party may elect to apply its Schedule with respect to that 
original Party, either: 
 
(i)  as if this Agreement had entered into force for both Parties 
on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
new Party; or  
 
(ii)  as if this Agreement had entered into force for both Parties 
on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
original Party. 
 
(c)  An original Party shall, no later than 12 days after the date of the 
affirmative determination by the Commission referred to in Article 
30.5.5 (Entry into Force) for a signatory, notify that signatory and 
the other Parties of its election under subparagraph (a) with respect 
to that signatory.  That signatory shall, no later than 24 days after 
the  date  of  the  affirmative  determination  by  the  Commission 
referred to in Article 30.5.5 (Entry into Force) for that signatory, 
notify  the  Parties  of  its  election  under  subparagraph  (b)  with 
respect to each original Party that notified its election to apply its 
Schedule pursuant to subparagraph (a)(i) for that signatory. 
 
(d)  If an original Party does not notify an election under subparagraph 
(a) as provided for in subparagraph (c), that original Party shall, on 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement for the new Party, 
apply  its  Schedule  to  the  new  Party  as  provided  for  in 
  2-63subparagraph (a)(ii).  If a new Party does not notify an election 
under subparagraph (b) as provided for in subparagraph (c), the 
new Party shall, on the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
for that new Party, apply its Schedule to that original Party as 
provided for in subparagraph (b)(ii). 
 
(e)  For greater certainty: 
 
(i)  an original Party that applies its Schedule to a new Party as 
provided  for  in  subparagraph  (a)(i)  may  unilaterally 
accelerate  the  elimination  of  customs  duties  on  an 
originating good set out in its Schedule to this Annex with 
respect to the new Party in accordance with Article 2.4.5 
(Elimination of Customs Duties); and  
 
(ii)  a new Party that applies its Schedule to an original Party as 
provided  for  in  subparagraph  (b)(i)  may  unilaterally 
accelerate  the  elimination  of  customs  duties  on  an 
originating good set out in its Schedule to this Annex with 
respect  to  the  original  Party  in  accordance  with  Article 
2.4.5 (Elimination of Customs Duties).  
 
(f)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if, on the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for a new Party for 
which  an  original  Party  has  elected  to  apply  its  Schedule  as 
provided for in subparagraph (a)(i): 
 
(i)  that original Party unilaterally accelerates the elimination of 
customs duties on an originating good of the new Party, 
that  original  Party  shall  not  subsequently  reverse  that 
acceleration; and  
 
(ii)  the  new  Party  unilaterally  accelerates  the  elimination  of 
customs duties on an originating good of that original Party, 
the  new  Party  shall  not  subsequently  reverse  that 
acceleration.  
 
5.  In the event of a discrepancy in a Party’s Schedule to this Annex between 
the staging category specified for an item and any tariff rate specified for that item 
for a particular year, that Party shall apply the rate required in accordance with the 
staging category specified for the item. 
 
6.  For the purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule: 
 
(a)  year 1 means: 
 
  2-64(i)  except as provided for in subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (a)(iii), 
the year of entry into force of this Agreement for any Party 
in  accordance  with  Article  30.5.1,  Article  30.5.2  and 
Article 30.5.3 (Entry into Force); 
 
(ii)  in the Schedule of an original Party, with respect to goods 
of a new Party for which that original Party has elected to 
apply its Schedule as provided for in paragraph 4(a)(i), the 
year of entry into force of this Agreement for that new 
Party; and 
 
(iii)  in the Schedule of a new Party, with respect to goods of an 
original Party for which that new Party has elected to apply 
its Schedule as provided for in paragraph 4(b)(i), the year 
of entry into force of this Agreement for the new Party; but 
 
(iv)  notwithstanding subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (a)(iii): 
 
A)  for the purposes of any tariff-rate quota or safeguard 
measure  set  out  in  the  Schedule  of  a  Party  and 
applicable to originating goods of all Parties, year 1 
means the year this Agreement enters into force for 
any Party in accordance with Article 30.5.1 (Entry 
into Force); and 
 
B)  for the purposes of any tariff-rate quota or safeguard 
measure  set  out  in  the  Schedule  of  a  Party  and 
applicable to originating goods of more than one 
Party,  but  not  all  Parties,  year  1  shall  have  the 
meaning set out in the Schedule of that Party; 
 
(b)  year 2 means the year after year 1; year 3 means the year after 
year 2, year 4 means the year after year 3, and so on; and 
 
(c)  year means a calendar year beginning on January 1 and ending on 
December 31, except as otherwise provided in a Party’s Schedule. 
 
7.  For tariff lines where a safeguard is applicable as identified in a Party’s 
Schedule to this Annex, the modalities of that safeguard as it applies to originating 
goods are specified in Appendix B to that Party’s Schedule. 
 
   
  2-65 
Section B:  Tariff Differentials 
 
8.  Except as otherwise provided in a Party’s Schedule to this Annex, if an 
importing Party applies different preferential tariff treatment to other Parties for 
the same originating good at the time a claim for preferential tariff treatment is 
made  in  accordance  with  the  importing  Party’s  Schedule  to  this  Annex,  that 
importing Party shall apply the rate of customs duty for the originating good of 
the  Party  where  the  last  production  process,  other  than  a  minimal  operation, 
occurred. 
 
9.  For the purposes of paragraph 8, a minimal operation is: 
 
(a)  an operation to ensure the preservation of a good in good condition 
for the purposes of transport and storage; 
 
(b)  packaging, re-packaging, breaking up of consignments or putting 
up a good for retail sale, including placing a good in bottles, cans, 
flasks, bags, cases or boxes; 
 
(c)  mere  dilution  with  water  or  another  substance  that  does  not 
materially alter the characteristics of the good; 
 
(d)  collection  of  goods  intended  to  form  sets,  assortments,  kits  or 
composite goods; and 
 
(e)  any  combination  of  operations  referred  to  in  subparagraphs  (a) 
through (d). 
 
10.  Notwithstanding paragraph 8 and any applicable rules and conditions set 
out  in  a  Party’s  Schedule  to  this  Annex,  the  importing  Party  shall  allow  an 
importer to make a claim for preferential tariff treatment at either: 
 
(a)  the highest rate of customs duty applicable to an originating good 
from any of the Parties; or 
 
(b)  the highest rate of customs duty applicable to an originating good 
from any Party where a production process occurred. 
 
  2-66