 
 
 
ANNEX 10B  
MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES  
 
 
Article 1: Scope  
 
This Annex applies to measures adopted or maintained by a Party affecting  
maritime  transport  services by  maritime  transport  service  suppliers of  the  
other Party.  
 
 
Article 2: Taxes, Tariffs and Port Access Fees  
 
1.  
 
On a reciprocal basis, each Party shal  afford vessels of the other Party  
the  same  treatment  that  it  accords to  its own  vessels with  respect  to  taxes  
assessed on tonnage or freight value and other taxes, port access fees and  
levies
1.     
 
2.  
 
Port  services shal   be  made  available  to  international  maritime  
transport  services suppliers of  the  Parties on  reasonable  and  non- 
discriminatory terms and conditions
2.  
 
3.  
 
Vessels of a Party shal  have the right to cal  at ports of the other Party,  
subject  to  advance  notice  requirements of  such  entry  to  the  appropriate  
authorities of that Party. Nothing in this Agreement with respect to port access 
shal   be  construed  to  prevent  either  Party  from  taking  actions  necessary  for  
the protection of its national security, safety or environmental interests.   
 
 
Article 3: Coastwise Transportation of Empty Vans, Tanks and Barges  
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, a vessel of a Party may  
transport the fol owing goods between points embraced within the coastwise  
laws of either Party:   
 
(a)  
Empty  cargo  vans,  empty  lift  vans,  and  empty  shipping  tanks;  
equipment for use with cargo vans, lift vans, or shipping tanks;  
empty barges specifical y designed for carriage aboard a vessel  
and  equipment,  excluding  propulsion  equipment,  for  use  with  
such  barges;  and  empty  instruments of  international  traffic,  
including containers, if such articles are owned or leased by the  
owner or operator of the transporting vessel and are transported  
for his use in handling his cargo in foreign trade; and  
 
1 It is understood that such taxes, fees and levies correspond to those imposed on the basis  
of a jurisdictional exercise of a Party.  
2  Port  Services  such  as:  pilotage;  towing  and  tug  assistance;  provisioning,  fuelling  and  
watering;  garbage  collecting  and  ballast  waste  disposal;  port  captain’s  services;  navigation  
aids;  shored-based  operational  services  essential  to  ship  operations,  including  
communications,  water  and  electrical  supplies;  emergency  repair  facilities;  and  anchorage,  
berth and berthing services. 
 
 
10B - 1 
 
 
 
 
(b)  
Stevedoring  equipment  and  material,  if  such  equipment  and  
material  is owned  or  leased  by  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  
transporting  vessel,  or  is owned  or  leased  by  the  stevedoring  
company  contracting  for  the  lading  or  unlading  of  that  vessel,  
and  is transported  without  charge  for  use  in  the  handling  of  
cargo in foreign trade.  
 
 
Article 4: International Maritime Transport and Feeder Services  
 
Transportation between a port of a Party and a port of the other Party is open.   
In addition, international maritime transport services suppliers of a Party can  
operate between ports of the other Party for the purposes of pre and onward  
carriage of their own international cargo.   
 
 
Article 5: Bilateral of Multilateral Agreements in Force  
 
A  Party  that  is a  party  to  an  agreement  or  arrangement  regarding  maritime  
transport services, whether existing or in future, shal , upon a written request,  
afford  adequate  opportunity  for  the  other  Party,  if  that  other  Party  is  
interested, to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or arrangement or  
to negotiate comparable ones with it.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B - 2 
