 
 
 
CHAPTER 12  
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  
 
 
Article 12.1: Scope and Coverage   
 
1.  
 
This Chapter  applies to  measures
1  affecting  trade  in 
public 
telecommunications transport network and services.  
 
2.  
 
This Chapter does not apply to any measure adopted or maintained by  
a  Party  relating  to  cable  or  broadcast  distribution  of  radio  or  television  
programming
2.  
 
3.  
 
Nothing in this Chapter shal  be construed to:  
 
(a)  
require  a  Party  (or  require  a  Party  to  compel  any  service  
supplier)  to  establish,  construct,  acquire,  lease,  operate,  or  
provide  
telecommunications  
transport  
networks 
or  
telecommunications services where  such  networks or  services  
are not offered to the public general y; or  
 
(b)  
require  a  Party  to  compel  any  service  supplier  engaged  in  the  
cable  or  broadcast  distribution  of  radio  or  television  
programming  to  make  available  its cable  or  broadcast  facilities  
as a  public telecommunications  transport  network,  unless a  
Party specifical y designates such facilities as such.  
 
 
Article 12.2: Access to and use of Public Telecommunications Transport  
Network and Services
3 
 
1.  
 
A  Party  shal   ensure  that  service  suppliers of  the  other  Party  have  
access to  and  use  of  any  public telecommunications transport  network and  
service,  including  leased  circuits,  offered  in  its territory  or  across its borders  
on  reasonable,  non-discriminatory,  timely  and  transparent  terms and  
conditions, including as set out in paragraphs 2 through 6.  
 
2.  
 
Each Party shal  ensure that such service suppliers are permitted to:  
 
(a)  
purchase or lease, and attach terminal or other equipment that  
interfaces with the public telecommunications transport network;  
 
 
 
 
1 This includes the effective enforcement of such measures.  
2 For greater certainty, the Parties obligations under this Chapter shall not apply to measures  
adopted or maintained relating to broadcasting services as defined in the Parties Schedule to  
Annex II. 
3 This Article does not apply  to  access to unbundled  network elements, including access to  
leased circuits as an unbundled network element.  
 
 
12 - 1 
 
 
 
(b)  
provide  services to  individual  or  multiple  end-users over  any  
leased or owned circuit(s);  
 
(c)  
interconnect  private  leased  or  owned  circuits with  public 
telecommunications transport  networks and  services or  with  
circuits leased or owned by another  service supplier subject to  
paragraph 6 (c);  
 
(d)  
perform  switching,  signal ing,  processing,  and  conversion  
functions; and  
 
(e)  
use operating protocols of their choice.  
 
3.   
A Party shal  ensure that service suppliers of the other Party may use  
public telecommunications transport networks and services for the movement  
of information in its territory or across its borders and for access to information  
contained in data bases or otherwise stored in machine-readable form in the  
territory of either Party.  
 
4.   
Notwithstanding paragraph 3, a Party may take such measures as are  
necessary to:  
 
(a)  
ensure the security and confidentiality of messages; or  
 
(b)  
protect the privacy of customer proprietary network information,  
 
subject  to  the  requirement  that  such  measures are  not  applied  in  a  
manner  that  would  constitute  a  means of  arbitrary or  unjustifiable  
discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade in services.  
 
 5.    Each Party shal  ensure that no condition is imposed on access to and  
use  of  public telecommunications transport  networks or  services,  other  than  
that necessary to:    
 
(a)   
safeguard  the  public service  responsibilities of  suppliers of  
public telecommunications transport  networks or  services,  in  
particular,  their  ability  to  make  their  networks or  services 
available to the public general y; or    
 
(b)  
protect  the  technical  integrity  of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services.    
 
6.     Provided  that  conditions for  access to  and  use  of  public 
telecommunications transport networks or services satisfy the criteria set out  
in paragraph 5, such conditions may include:    
 
(a)  
a  requirement  to  use  specified  technical  interfaces,  including  
interface  protocols,  for  interconnection  with  such  networks or  
services;   
 
 
 
 
12 - 2 
 
 
 
(b)  
a licensing, permit, registration, or notification procedure; or 
 
(c)  
restrictions on  interconnection  of  private  leased  or  owned  
circuits with such networks or services or with circuits leased or  
owned by another services supplier.  
 
 
Article  
12.3:  
Interconnection  
with  
Suppliers  
of  
Public  
Telecommunications Transport Networks and Services  
 
1.   
A  Party  shal   ensure  that  suppliers of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services in its territory provides interconnection with the  
facilities and  equipment  of  suppliers of  public telecommunications  transport  
networks or services of the other Party.  
 
2.   
In carrying out paragraph 1, each Party shal  ensure that suppliers of  
public telecommunications transport  networks or  services in  its territory  take  
reasonable steps to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information of, or  
relating  to,  suppliers and  end-users of  public telecommunications transport  
networks or  services and  only  use  such  information  for  the  purpose  of  
providing public telecommunications transport networks or services.  
 
 
Article 12.4: Conduct of Major Suppliers
4 
 
Treatment by Major Suppliers 
 
1.   
A  Party  shal   ensure  that  any  major  supplier  in  its territory accords  
suppliers of public telecommunications transport  networks or  services of  the  
other Party treatment no less favourable than such major supplier accords to  
itself,  its subsidiaries,  its affiliates,  or  any  non-affiliated  service  supplier  
regarding:  
 
(a)  
the  availability,  provisioning,  rates,  or  quality  of  like  public 
telecommunications transport networks or services; and  
 
(b)  
the  availability  of  technical  interfaces 
necessary  for  
interconnection.  
 
A  Party  shal   assess  such  treatment  on  the  basis of  whether  such  
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or services,  
subsidiaries,  affiliates,  and  non-affiliated  service  suppliers are  in  like  
circumstances.  
 
 
 
 
4  Articles  12.4.3,  12.4.4,  12.4.5,  12.4.6  (a)  and  (d),  do  not  apply  to  suppliers  of  commercial  
mobile services.  However, nothing in this Article shal  be construed to preclude a Party from  
imposing the requirements set out in this Article on suppliers of commercial mobile services if  
those suppliers are designated by that Party as a major supplier.  
 
 
12 - 3 
 
 
 
Competitive Safeguards 
 
2.   
Each  Party  shal   maintain  appropriate  measures for  the  purpose  of  
preventing  suppliers of  public telecommunications transport  networks or  
services who,  alone  or  together,  are  a  major  supplier  in  its territory  from  
engaging  in  or  continuing  anti-competitive  practices.  For  purposes of  this  
paragraph, anti-competitive practices include:  
 
(a)  
engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidisation;  
 
(b)   using  information  obtained  from  competitors with  anti- 
competitive results; and  
 
(c)   
not  making  available,  on  a  timely  basis,  to  suppliers of  public  
telecommunications transport  networks or  services,  technical  
information  about  essential  facilities and  commercial y  relevant  
information  that  is necessary  for  them  to  provide  public  
telecommunications transport networks or services.  
 
Co-Location  
 
3.   
(a)  
A Party shal  ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide  
to suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or  
services of  the  other  Party  physical  co-location,  at  premises  
owned  or  control ed  by  the  major  supplier,  of  equipment  
necessary  for  interconnection  on  terms and  conditions,  and  at  
cost-oriented  rates,  that  are  reasonable,  non-discriminatory,  
timely  and transparent.  
 
(b)  
Where physical co-location is not practical for technical reasons  
or  because  of  space  limitations,  each  Party  shal   ensure  that  
major  suppliers in  its territory  provide  or  facilitate  virtual  co- 
location on terms and conditions, and at cost oriented rates, that  
are reasonable, non-discriminatory, timely and transparent.  
 
(c)  
Each Party may determine, in accordance with its national laws 
and regulations, which premises in its territory shal  be subject to  
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b).  
 
Poles, Ducts, and Conduits 
 
4.   
(a)  
A Party shal  ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide  
access to  poles,  ducts,  and  conduits,  owned  or  control ed  by  
such  major  suppliers to  suppliers of  public telecommunications  
transport  networks or  services of  the  other  Party,  under  terms,  
conditions,  and  cost-oriented  rates,  that  are  reasonable,  non- 
discriminatory  (including  with  respect  to  timeliness),  and  
transparent.  
 
 
 
 
 
12 - 4 
 
 
 
(b)  
Nothing  shal   prevent  a  Party  from  determining,  under  its  
domestic law  and  regulation,  which  particular  structures  owned  
or control ed by the major suppliers in its territory, are required  
to  be  made  available  in  accordance  with  sub-paragraph  (a)  
provided  that  this is based  on  a  determination  that  such  
structures cannot  feasibly  be  economical y  or  technical y  
substituted in order to provide a competing service.  
 
Number Portability 
 
5.  
 
Each  Party  shal   ensure  that  major  suppliers in  its territory  provide  
number portability to the extent technical y feasible, on a timely basis and on  
reasonable terms and conditions.  
 
Interconnection  
 
6.   
(a)  
General Terms and Conditions 
 
A  Party  shal   ensure  that  any  major  supplier  in  its territory  provides 
interconnection  for  the  facilities and  equipment  of  suppliers of  public  
telecommunications transport networks or services of the other Party:  
 
(i)   
at  any  technical y  feasible  point  in  the  major  supplier’s  
network;  
 
(i )   
under  non-discriminatory  terms,  conditions (including  
technical standards and specifications), and rates;  
 
(i i)   of a quality no less favourable than that provided by such  
major supplier for its own like services or for like services 
of  non-affiliated  suppliers of  public telecommunications  
transport  networks or  services or  for  its subsidiaries or  
other affiliates;  
 
(iv)   in  a  timely  fashion,  on  terms,  conditions,  (including  
technical standards and specifications), and cost-oriented  
rates,  that  are  transparent,  reasonable,  having  regard  to  
economic feasibility,  and  sufficiently  unbundled  so  that  
the  supplier  of  public telecommunications transport  
networks or  services need  not  pay  for  network 
components or  facilities that  it  does not  require  for  the  
service to be provided; and  
 
(v)   
upon  request,  at  points in  addition  to  the  network  
termination  points offered  to  the  majority  of  suppliers of  
public 
telecommunications 
transport  networks 
or   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 - 5 
 
 
 
services,  subject  to  charges that  reflect  the  cost  of  
construction of necessary additional facilities
5.  
 
(b)  
Public Availability  of  the  Procedures for  Interconnection  
Negotiations 
 
Each Party shal  make publicly available the applicable procedures for  
interconnection negotiations with major suppliers in its territory.  
 
(c)  
Public Availability of Interconnection Agreements concluded with  
Major Suppliers 
 
(i)   
each Party shal  require major suppliers in its territory to  
file al  interconnection agreements to which they are party  
with its telecommunications regulatory body.  
 
(i )   
each  Party  shal   make  available  for  inspection  to  
suppliers 
of  public  telecommunications  transport  
networks or  services which  are  seeking  interconnection,  
interconnection  agreements in  force  between  a  major  
supplier  in  its territory and  any  other  supplier  of  public  
telecommunications transport  networks or  services in  
such territory.  
 
(d)  
Resolution of Interconnection Disputes 
 
A  Party  shal   ensure  that  suppliers of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services of the other Party, that have requested  
interconnection  with  a  major  supplier  in  the  Party’s territory,  has 
recourse to a telecommunications regulatory body to resolve disputes  
regarding the terms, conditions, and rates for interconnection within a  
reasonable and publicly available period of time.  
 
 
Article 12.5: Submarine Cable Landing Stations  
 
A Party shal  ensure reasonable and non-discriminatory access to submarine  
cable  capacity,  and  cross-connect  links in  and  backhaul  links from,  a  
submarine  cable  landing  station  for  suppliers of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services of the other Party.   
 
 
Article 12.6: Independent Regulation  
 
1.  
 
Each Party shal  ensure that its telecommunications regulatory body is  
separate  from,  and  not  accountable  to,  any  supplier  of  public  
telecommunications transport networks or services.   
 
5  These  costs  may  include  the  cost  of  physical  or  virtual  co-location  referenced  in  Article  
12.4.3.  
 
 
 
12 - 6 
 
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
Each Party shal  ensure that the decisions of, and procedures used by  
its telecommunications regulatory  body  is  impartial  with  respect  to  al   
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or services.   
 
 
Article 12.7: Universal Service  
 
Each Party shal  administer any universal service obligation that it maintains  
in  a  transparent,  non-discriminatory,  and  competitively neutral  manner  and  
shal  ensure that its universal service obligation is not more burdensome than  
necessary for the kind of universal service that it has defined.  
 
 
Article 12.8: Licensing Process  
 
1.  
 
When  a  Party  requires a  supplier  of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services to have a license or concession, the Party shal   
make publicly available:  
 
(a)  
al  the licensing criteria and procedures it applies;  
 
(b)  
the  period  of  time  normal y  required  to  reach  a  decision  
concerning an application for a license or concession; and  
 
(c)  
the  terms and  conditions of  al   licenses or  concessions it  has  
issued.  
 
2.  
 
Each Party shal  ensure that an applicant receives, upon request, the  
reasons for the denial of a license or concession.  
 
 
Article 12.9: Allocation and use of Scarce Resources  
 
1.  
 
Each Party shal  administer its procedures for the al ocation and use of  
scarce  resources,  including  frequencies,  numbers and  rights of  way,  in  an  
objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory fashion.  
 
2.  
 
Each Party shal  make publicly available the current state of al ocated  
frequency bands but shal  not be required to provide detailed identification of  
frequencies assigned or al ocated for specific government uses.  
 
 
Article 12.10: Resolution of Domestic Telecommunications Disputes  
 
Recourse to Telecommunications Regulatory Bodies 
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   ensure  that  suppliers of  public telecommunications  
transport  networks or  services of  the  other  Party have  recourse  (within  a  
reasonable period of time) to a telecommunications regulatory body to resolve  
 
 
12 - 7 
 
 
 
disputes arising  under  domestic measures  addressing  a  matter  set  out  in  
Articles 12.2 through 12.9.  
 
Reconsideration   
 
2.   
Each Party shal  ensure that any supplier of public telecommunications 
transport  networks or  services aggrieved  or  whose  interests are  adversely 
affected by a determination or decision of the telecommunications regulatory 
body  may  petition  that  body  for  reconsideration  of  the  determination  or  
decision.   
 
Judicial Review and Appeal  
 
3.  
 
Each Party shal  ensure that any supplier of public telecommunications 
transport networks or services aggrieved by a determination or decision of the  
telecommunications regulatory body has the opportunity to appeal, or obtain  
judicial review of, such determination or decision to an independent judicial or  
administrative authority
6.  
 
 
Article 12.11: Transparency  
 
Further to Chapter 14 (Transparency), each Party shal  ensure that:  
 
(a)  
rulemakings,  including  the  basis for  such  rulemakings,  of  its  
telecommunications  regulatory  body  and  end-user  tariffs filed  
with  its telecommunications regulatory  body  are  promptly  
published or otherwise made available to al  interested suppliers 
of public telecommunications transport networks or services;  
 
(b)  
interested  suppliers of  public telecommunications transport  
networks or services are provided with adequate advance public  
notice  of,  and  the  opportunity  comment  on,  any  rulemaking  
proposed by the telecommunications regulatory body;  
 
(c)  
Its measures relating  to  public telecommunications transport  
networks or services are made publicly available, including:  
 
(i)  
 
tariffs and other terms and conditions of service;  
 
(i )  
specifications of technical interfaces;  
 
(i i)  
conditions applying  to  attachment  of  terminal  or  other  
equipment  to  the  public telecommunications transport  
network; and  
 
 
 
 
6  For  greater  certainty,  in  the  case  of  Panama,  only  the  judicial  review  process  at  the  
Supreme Court shall be applicable.    
 
 
12 - 8 
 
 
 
(iv)  
notification,  
permit,  
registration,  
or  
licensing  
requirements, if any; and  
 
(d)  
Information on bodies responsible for preparing, amending, and  
adopting standards related measures is made publicly available.  
 
 
Article 12.12: Relationship to other Chapters  
 
In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  this Chapter  and  any  other  
Chapter, this Chapter shal  prevail to the extent of any such inconsistency.  
 
 
Article 12.13: Definitions  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
1.  
 
backhaul links means end-to-end transmission links from a submarine  
cable landing station to another primary point of access to the Party’s public 
telecommunications transport network;  
 
2.  
 
cost-oriented  means  based  on  cost,  and  may  include  a  reasonable  
profit,  and  may  involve  different  cost  methodologies for  different  facilities or  
services;  
 
3.  
 
commercial  mobile  services  
means public telecommunications  
services supplied through mobile wireless means;  
 
4.  
 
cross-connect  links  means the  links in  a  submarine  cable  landing  
station  used  to  connect  submarine  cable  capacity  to  the  transmission,  
switching  and  routing  equipment  of  different  suppliers of  public 
telecommunications services co-located  in  that  submarine  cable  landing  
station;  
 
5.  
 
customer proprietary network information means information made  
available  to  the  supplier  of  public telecommunications transport  networks or  
services by the end-user solely by virtue of the end-user telecommunications  
service supplier relationship;  
 
6.  
 
end-user  means a  final  consumer  of  or  subscriber  to  a  public 
telecommunications transport networks or service, including a service supplier  
but  excluding  a  supplier  of  public telecommunications transport  networks or  
services;  
 
7.  
 
essential  facilities  means facilities of  a  public telecommunications  
transport network or service that:  
 
(a)  
are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited  
number of suppliers; and  
 
 
 
 
12 - 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  
 
 
 
(b)  
cannot  feasibly  be  economical y  or  technical y substituted  in  
order to provide a service;  
 
interconnection  
means linking  with  suppliers providing  public 
telecommunications transport networks or services in order to al ow the users 
of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and to access  
services provided by another supplier;  
 
9.  
 
leased  circuits  means telecommunications  facilities between  two  or  
more  designated  points which  are  set  aside  for  the  dedicated  use  of  or  
availability to a particular customer or other users of the customer’s choosing;  
 
10.  
major  supplier  
means a  supplier  of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services that has the ability to material y affect the terms  
of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for  
public telecommunications transport networks or services as a result of:  
 
(a)  
control over essential facilities; or  
 
(b)  
use of its position in the market;  
 
11.  
network  element  means a facility or equipment used in the provision  
of  a  public telecommunications service,  including  features,  functions,  and  
capabilities that are provided by means of such facility or equipment;  
 
12.  
non-discriminatory  means treatment  no  less favourable  than  that  
accorded  to  any  other  user  of  like  public telecommunications  transport  
networks or services in like circumstances;  
 
13.   number  portability  
means the  ability  of  end-users of  public  
telecommunications  transport  networks or  services to  retain,  at  the  same  
location, existing telephone numbers without impairment of quality, reliability,  
or  convenience  by  the  original  suppliers  when  switching  between  like  
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or services;  
 
14.  
physical  co-location  means physical  access to  and  control  over  
space in order to instal , maintain, or repair equipment used to provide public  
telecommunications transport networks or services;  
 
15.  
public  telecommunications  transport  network  means the  public 
telecommunications infrastructure which permits telecommunications between  
and among defined network termination points;  
 
16.  public  
telecommunications  
transport  
service  
means 
any  
telecommunications transport  service  required,  explicitly  or  in  effect,  by  a  
Party  to  be  offered  to  the  public general y.  Such  services may  include  inter  
alia, telegraph, telephone, telex and data transmission typical y involving the  
real time transmission of customer-supplied information between two or more  
points without any end-to-end change in the form or content of the customer’s  
information;  
 
 
12 - 10  
 
 
 
 
17.  
service supplier means any person that supplies a service;  
 
18.  
submarine  cable  landing  station  means the premises and buildings 
where international submarine cables arrive and terminate and are connected  
to backhaul links;  
 
19.  
supplier  of  public  telecommunications  transport  networks  and  
services  
means any  provider  of  public  telecommunications  transport  
networks or  public telecommunications transport  services,  including  those  
who  provide  such  networks or  services to  other  suppliers of  public  
telecommunications transport networks or services;  
 
20.  
telecommunications means the transmission and reception of signals  
by any electromagnetic means
7;  
 
21.  
telecommunications  regulatory  body  
means a  national  body  
responsible for the regulation of telecommunications; and  
 
22.  
user  means an  end-user  or  a  supplier  of  public telecommunications  
transport networks or services.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 Including by photonic means.  
 
 
 
 
12 - 11  
