 
 
 
CHAPTER 10  
CROSS BORDER TRADE IN SERVICES  
 
 
Article 10.1: Definitions  
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
1.  
 
cross-border trade in services or cross-border supply of services  
means the supply of a service:  
 
(a)   from the territory of one Party into the territory of the other Party;  
 
(b)   in the territory of one Party by a person of that Party to a person  
of the other Party; or  
 
(c)  
by  a  service  supplier  of  a  Party,  through  presence  of  natural  
persons of a Party in the territory of the other Party; 
 
but does not include the supply of a service in the territory of a Party by an  
investor of the other Party or an investment of an investor of the other Party  
as defined in Article 9.1 (Definitions); 
 
2.  
 
enterprise  means an entity constituted or organized under applicable  
law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately or governmental y owned  
or  control ed,  including  a  corporation,  trust,  partnership,  sole  proprietorship,  
joint  venture,  association,  or  similar  organization  and  a  branch  of  an  
enterprise;  
 
3.  
 
enterprise  of  a  Party  means an  enterprise  organized  or  constituted  
under the laws of a Party and a branch located in the territory of a Party;   
 
4. 
 
maritime  transport  service  supplier  of  a  Party  means a  person,  a  
shipping company or a vessel of one Party that seeks to supply or supplies a  
maritime service;  
 
5.  
 
port  of  a  Party  means the  port  of  that  Party  that  is open  to  foreign  
vessels;  
 
6.  
 
service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means  
any  service  which  is supplied  neither  on  a  commercial  basis nor  in  
competition with one or more service suppliers.  
 
7.  
 
service  supplier  means a  person  of  a  Party  that  seeks  to  supply or  
supplies a service
1;  
1 The Parties understand that seeks to supply or supplies a service has the same meaning  
as  supplies  a  service as  used  in  GATS  Article  XXVIII  (g).  The  Parties  understand  that  for  
purposes of Articles 10.3 (National Treatment), 10.4 (Most-Favoured Nation Treatment), and  
10.5  (Market  Access)  of  this  Agreement,  service  suppliers  has  the  same  meaning  as  
services and service suppliers as used in GATS Articles II, XVI, and XVII.  
 
 
10 - 1 
 
 
 
 
8.  
 
 
 
 
vessel means any merchant ships engaged in any commercial activity,  
except a ship that is:  
 
(a)  
involved solely in the carriage and transportation of cargo for or  
belonging to; or  
 
(b)  
used in the service of the Government of either Party; and  
 
9.  
 
vessel of a Party means any vessel under the national flag of a Party,  
registered in the territory of that Party, or any vessel under the flag of a third  
country  that  is owned  or  operated  by  a  shipping  company  of  one  Party.   
“Operated”  means  owned,  managed,  chartered,  time  chartered,  or  space  
chartered. 
 
 
Article 10.2: Scope and Coverage  
 
1.   
This Chapter  applies to  measures adopted  or  maintained  by  a  Party 
affecting cross-border trade in services by service suppliers of the other Party.  
Measures covered by this paragraph include measures affecting:  
 
(a)  
the  production,  distribution,  marketing,  sale  and  delivery  of  a  
service;  
 
(b)  
the purchase or use of, or payment for, a service;  
 
(c)  
the  access to  and  use  of  distribution,  transport,  or  
telecommunications networks and  services  in  connection  with  
the supply of a service; and  
 
(d)  
the  presence  in  its territory  of  a  service  supplier  of  the  other  
Party
2; and  
 
(e)  
the  provision  of  a  bond  or  other form  of financial  security  as a  
condition for the supply of a service.  
 
2.  
 
Notwithstanding Article 10.1.1, Articles 10.5, 10.8, 10.9 and 10.15 also  
applies to measures by a Party affecting the supply of a service in its territory  
by an investor or an investment as defined in Article 9.1 (Definitions)
3. 
 
3.   
This Chapter does not apply to:  
 
(a)  
financial  services,  as defined  in  Article  11.16  (Definitions),  
except  as otherwise  provided  for  in  Chapter  11  (Financial  
Services);  
 
2 It is clarified that this paragraph 1(d) is without prejudice to and is to be read together with  
Article 10.1.1.  
3 The Parties understand that nothing in this Chapter, including this paragraph, is subject to  
investor-state dispute settlement pursuant to Article 9.13 (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). 
 
10 - 2 
 
 
 
 
(b)   government  procurement,  as  referred  to  in  Chapter  8  
(Government Procurement);  
 
(c)   
air  services,  including  domestic 
and  international  air  
transportation  services,  whether  scheduled  or  non-scheduled,  
and related services in support of air services, other than:  
 
(i)  
 
aircraft repair and maintenance services during which an  
aircraft is withdrawn from service;  
 
(i )  
the sel ing and marketing of air transport services;  
 
(i i)  
computer reservation system (“CRS”) services; and  
 
(d)  
subsidies or  grants provided  by  a  Party or  to  any  conditions  
attached to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or  
grants,  whether  or  not  such  subsidies  or  grants are  offered  
exclusively  to  domestic services,  service  consumers or  service  
suppliers,  including  government-supported  loans,  guarantees  
and insurance.  
 
4.   
This Chapter does not impose any obligation on a Party with respect to  
a natural person of the other Party seeking access to its employment market,  
or  employed  on  a  permanent  basis in  its territory,  and  does not  confer  any  
right on that natural person with respect to that access or employment.  
 
5.  
 
This Chapter  does  not  apply  to  services supplied  in  the  exercise  of  
governmental authority within the territory of each respective Party.  
 
6.  
 
Nothing in this Chapter shal  prevent a Party from applying measures 
to  regulate  the  entry of  natural  persons of  the  other  Party  into,  or  their  
temporary stay in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect  
the integrity of, and to ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across  
its borders, provided that such measures are not applied in such a manner as  
to nul ify or impair the benefits accruing to the other Party under the terms of  
this Chapter.
4 
 
7.  
 
Annex  10A  (Movement  of  Business Persons)  contains supplementary  
provisions to this Chapter and provides for additional rights and obligations in  
relation  to  the  movement  of  natural  persons between  the  Parties.    The  
commitments made by each Party under Annex 10A (Movement of Business  
Persons) shal  be subject to any reservations it has taken in its Annex I, II and  
III  of  Chapters 9  (Investment),  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services)  and  
Chapter 11 (Financial Services).  
 
 
 
 
4 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of the other Party shall not be regarded  
as nullifying or impairing benefits under a specific commitment.  
 
 
10 - 3 
 
 
 
8.  
 
 
 
Annex  10B  (Maritime  Transport  Services)  contains supplementary 
provisions to this Chapter and provides for additional rights and obligations in  
relation to maritime transport services between the Parties. The commitments  
made by each Party under Annex 10B (Maritime Transport Services) shal  be  
subject to any reservations it has taken in its Annex I, II and III of Chapters 9  
(Investment), 10 (Cross-Border Trade in Services) and Chapter 11 (Financial  
Services).  
 
 
Article 10.3: National Treatment  
 
Each Party shal  accord to service suppliers of the other Party treatment no  
less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to its own service  
suppliers.  
 
 
Article 10.4: Most-Favoured Nation Treatment  
 
Each Party shal  accord to service suppliers of the other Party treatment no  
less favorable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to service suppliers  
of a non-Party. 
 
 
Article 10.5: Market Access  
 
A  Party  shal   not  adopt  or  maintain,  either  on  the  basis of  a  regional  
subdivision or on the basis of its entire territory, measures that
5:  
 
(a)  
impose limitations on:  
 
(i)  
 
the  number  of  service  suppliers whether  in  the  form  of  
numerical  quotas,  monopolies,  exclusive  service  
suppliers or the requirement of an economic needs test;  
 
(i )  
the  total  value  of  service  transactions or  assets in  the  
form  of  numerical  quotas or  the  requirement  of  an  
economic needs test;  
 
(i i)  
the total number of service operations or the total quantity  
of  services output  expressed  in  terms of  designated  
numerical units in the form of quotas or the requirement  
of an economic needs test
6; or  
 
 
 
 
5  Subject  to  the  reservations  that  a  Party  makes  in  respect  of  market  access  pursuant  to  
Article  10.7,  where  the  cross-border  movement  of  capital  is  an  essential  part  of  a  services  
supplied  through  the  mode  of  supply  referred  to  in  Article  10.1.1(a),  that  Party  is  hereby  
committed to allow such movement of capital.  
6  This  paragraph  does  not  cover  measures  of  a  Party  which  limit  inputs  for  the  supply  of  
services. 
 
10 - 4 
 
 
 
(iv)  
the  total  number  of  natural  persons that  may  be  
employed  in  a  particular  service  sector  or  that  a  service  
supplier  may  employ  and  who  are  necessary  for,  and  
directly related to, the supply of a specific service in the  
form  of  numerical  quotas or  the  requirement  of  an  
economic needs test; and  
 
(b)  
restrict  or  require  specific types  of  legal  entity  or  joint  venture  
through which a service supplier may supply a service.  
 
 
Article 10.6: Local Presence  
 
A Party shal  not require a service supplier of the other Party to establish or  
maintain a representative office or any form of enterprise, or to be resident, in  
its territory as a condition for the cross-border supply of a service.  
 
 
Article 10.7: Non-Conforming Measures  
 
1.   
Articles 10.3, 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6 do not apply to:  
 
(a)   
any  existing  non-conforming  measure  that  is maintained  by  a  
Party as set out by that Party in its Schedule to Annex I;   
 
(b)   
the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any  non-conforming  
measure referred to in sub-paragraph (a); or  
 
(c)   
an  amendment  to  any  non-conforming  measure  referred  to  in  
sub-paragraph  (a)  to  the  extent  that  the  amendment  does  not  
decrease  the  conformity  of  the  measure,  as it  existed  
immediately  before  the  amendment,  with  Articles 10.3,  10.4,  
10.5 and 10.6.  
 
2.   
Articles 10.3, 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6 do not apply to any measure that a  
Party adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors or activities as 
set out in its Schedule to Annex II.  
 
3.  
 
Article 10.9 shal  not apply to:   
 
(a)  
any  existing  non-conforming  measure  that  is maintained  by  a  
Party as set out in its Schedule to Annex I; or   
 
(b)  
any  existing  or  new  measure  that  a  Party  adopts or  maintains  
with respect to sectors, sub sectors or activities as set out in its  
Schedule to Annex II. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 - 5 
 
 
 
Article 10.8: New Services  
 
1.  
 
The  provisions of  this Chapter  shal   apply  to  measures adopted  or  
maintained  by  a  Party  relating  to  the  provision  of  new  services by  service  
suppliers of either Party save as otherwise provided for in this Article.   
 
2.  
 
Paragraph 1 is subject to the right of a Party to impose conditions on  
the supply of any new service by service suppliers of the other Party, provided  
that:  
 
(a)  
such  conditions are  not  applied  in  a  manner  which  would  
constitute  a  means of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  
between the Parties where like conditions prevail, or a disguised  
restriction on trade in services, and  
 
(b)  
in seeking such review and imposing such conditions, the Party  
shal   ensure  that  there  is an  overal   balance  of  services 
commitments undertaken by each Party under this Agreement.  
 
3.  
 
A  Party  imposing  any  conditions pursuant  to  paragraph  2  shal   
determine whether such conditions are likely to be of a permanent nature, and  
if so, such conditions shal  be incorporated in its relevant reservations Annex  
under  Article  10.7  by  giving  written  notice  to  the  other  Party,  except  that  a  
Party shal  not make a reservation in respect of new services against Article  
10.4. Where such conditions are likely to be of a temporary nature, the Party  
imposing the conditions shal , if it deems fit, phase them out progressively as 
circumstances giving rise to the need to impose such conditions improve and  
al ow for.   
 
4.  
 
For the purpose of this Article, the term new services means a service  
that at the date of entry into force of this Agreement is:  
 
(a)  
not currently in existence in the territory of a Party; or  
 
(b)  
an existing service not covered or defined in the United Nations  
Central  Product  Classification (“CPC”) and which is not subject  
to any regulatory framework in the territory  of a Party owing to  
its infant  stage  of  development  as  the  Party  concerned  
considers it to be as such.  
 
 
Article 10.9: Domestic Regulation  
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   ensure  that  al   measures of  general  application  
affecting  trade  in  services are  administered  in  a  reasonable,  objective  and  
impartial manner.  
 
2.  
 
Each  Party  shal   ensure  that  its judicial,  arbitral  or  administrative  
tribunals or  procedures which  provide  for  the  prompt  review  of,  and  where  
justified, appropriate remedies for, administrative decisions affecting trade in  
 
 
10 - 6 
 
 
 
services are  open  on  a  non-discriminatory  basis to  service  suppliers of  the  
other  Party.  Where  such  procedures are  not  independent  of  the  agency  
entrusted  with  the  administrative  decision  concerned,  the  Party  shal   ensure  
that the procedures in fact provide for an objective and impartial review.  
 
3.  
 
Paragraph 2 shal  not be construed to require a Party to institute such  
tribunals or procedures where this would be inconsistent with its constitutional  
structure or the nature of its legal system. 
 
4.  
 
Where  authorisation  is required  for  the  supply  of  a  service,  the  
competent  authorities of  a  Party  shal   promptly,  after  the  submission  of  an  
application considered complete under domestic laws and regulations, inform  
the applicant of the decision concerning the application.  At the request of the  
applicant, the competent authorities of the Party shal  provide, without undue  
delay, information concerning the status of the application.  
 
5.  
 
With  the  objective  of  ensuring  that  domestic regulation,  including  
measures relating  to  qualification  requirements and  procedures,  technical  
standards and licensing requirements, do not constitute unnecessary barriers 
to  trade  in  services,  the  Parties shal   jointly  review  the  results of  the  
negotiations on  disciplines on  these  measures,  pursuant  to  Article  VI.4  of  
GATS,  with  a  view  to  their  incorporation  into  this Agreement.    The  Parties  
note that such disciplines aim to ensure that such requirements are inter alia:  
 
(a)  
based  on  objective  and  transparent  criteria,  such  as  
competence and the ability to supply the service;  
 
(b)  
not  more  burdensome  than  necessary  to  ensure  the  quality  of  
the service; and  
 
(c)  
in  the  case  of  licensing  procedures,  not  in  themselves a  
restriction on the supply of the service.  
 
6.  
 
Pending  the  incorporation  of  disciplines pursuant  to  paragraph  5,  a  
Party  shal   not  apply  licensing  and  qualification  requirements and  technical  
standards that nul ify or impair its obligations under this Chapter in a manner  
which:  
 
(a)  
does not comply with the criteria outlined in paragraphs 5(a), (b)  
or (c); and   
 
(b)  
could  not  reasonably  have  been  expected  of  that  Party  at  the  
time the obligations were undertaken.  
 
7.  
 
In  determining  whether  a  Party  is in  conformity  with  its obligations  
under  paragraph  6,  account  shal   be  taken  of  international  standards of  
relevant international organisations
7 applied by that Party.   
 
 
7  The  term  “relevant  international  organisations”  refers  to  international  bodies  whose  
membership is open to relevant bodies of both Parties.  
 
 
10 - 7 
 
 
 
 
8.  
 
 
 
 
Each  Party  shal   provide  for  adequate  procedures to  verify  the  
competence of professionals of the other Party.  
 
 
Article 10.10: Mutual Recognition  
 
1.   
For  the  purposes of  fulfil ing,  in  whole  or  in  part,  of  its standards  or  
criteria  for  the  authorization,  licensing  or  certification  of  services suppliers,  
and  subject  to  the  requirements of  paragraph  4,  a  Party  may  recognize  the  
education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements met,  or  licenses or  
certifications granted  in  a  particular  country,  including  the  other  Party  and  
non-Parties. Such recognition, which may be achieved through harmonization  
or  otherwise,  may  be  based  upon  an  agreement  or  arrangement  with  the  
country concerned or may be accorded autonomously.  
 
2.   
Where  a  Party  recognizes,  autonomously  or  by  agreement  or  
arrangement,  the  education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements met  or  
licenses or  certifications granted  in  the  territory  of  a  non-Party,  nothing  in  
Article 10.4 shal  be construed to require the Party to accord such recognition  
to  the  education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements met  or  licenses or  
certifications granted in the territory of the other Party.  
 
3.   
A  Party  that  is a  party  to  an  agreement  or  arrangement  of  the  type  
referred  to  in  paragraph  1,  whether  existing  or  future,  shal   afford  adequate  
opportunity for the other Party, if the other Party is interested, to negotiate its  
accession to such an agreement or arrangement or to negotiate comparable  
ones with it. Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shal  afford  
adequate  opportunity  for  the  other  Party  to  demonstrate  that  the  education,  
experience,  licenses,  or  certifications obtained  or  requirements met  in  that  
other Party’s territory should be recognised.  
 
4.   
A Party shal  not accord recognition in a manner which would constitute  
a means of discrimination between countries in the application of its standards  
or criteria for the authorisation, licensing or certification of services suppliers,  
or a disguised restriction on trade in services.  
 
 
Article 10.11: Transfers and Payments  
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   permit  al   transfers and  payments relating  to  the  
cross-border supply of services to be made freely and without delay into and  
out of its territory.  
 
2.  
 
 Each  Party  shal   permit  such  transfers and  payments relating  to  the  
cross-border supply of services to be made in a freely usable currency at the  
market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 - 8 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
 
 Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, a Party may prevent a transfer or  
payment through the equitable, non-discriminatory and good faith application  
of its law relating to:  
 
(a)   
bankruptcy,  insolvency  or  the  protection  of  the  rights of  
creditors;  
 
(b)   
issuing,  trading  or  dealing  in  securities,  futures,  options,  or  
derivatives;  
 
(c)   
financial  reporting  or  record  keeping  of  transfers when  
necessary  to  assist  law  enforcement  or  financial  regulatory  
authorities;  
 
(d)   criminal or penal offences;  
 
(e)  
ensuring  compliance  with  orders or  judgments in  judicial  or  
administrative proceedings; or  
 
(f)  
social  security,  public retirement  or  compulsory  savings 
schemes.  
 
 
Article 10.12: Denial of Benefits  
 
Subject to prior notification and consultation, according to the procedures set  
out  in  Article  15.3  (Consultations),  a  Party  may  deny  the  benefits of  this 
Chapter to a service supplier of the other Party if the service is being supplied  
by an enterprise that has no substantial business activities in the territory of  
the other Party and it is owned or control ed by persons of a non-Party or the  
denying Party.  
 
 
Article 10.13: Transparency  
 
1.  
 
Each Party shal  publish promptly and, except in emergency situations,  
at  the  latest  by  the  time  of  their  entry  into  force,  al   relevant  measures of  
general  application  which  pertain  to  or  affect  the  operation  of  this Chapter.  
International  agreements which  pertain  to  or  affect  cross-border  trade  in  
services to which a Party is a signatory shal  also be published.   
 
2.  
 
Where  publication  as referred  to  in  paragraph  1  above  is not  
practicable, such information shal  be made otherwise publicly available.  
 
3.  
 
Each Party shal  respond promptly to al  requests by the other Party for  
specific information  on  any  of  its measures of  general  application  or  
international  agreements within  the  meaning  of  paragraph  1  above.  Each  
Party  shal   also  establish  one  or  more  enquiry points to  provide  specific  
information to the other Party, upon request, on al  such matters.  
 
 
 
 
10 - 9 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 10.14: Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers  
 
1.  
 
Each Party shal  ensure that any monopoly supplier of a service in  
its territory  does not,  in  the  supply  of  the  monopoly  service  in  the  relevant  
market, act in a manner inconsistent with its obligations under Articles 10.3,  
10.4, 10.5 and 10.6.   
 
2.  
 
Where  a  Party’s monopoly  supplier  competes,  either  directly  or  
through an affiliated company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of  
its monopoly  rights and  which  is subject  to  that  Party’s obligations under  
Articles 10.3, 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6., the Party shal  ensure that such a supplier  
does not  abuse  its monopoly  position  to  act  in  its territory  in  a  manner  
inconsistent with such obligations.   
 
3.  
 
If  a  Party  has reason  to  believe  that  a  monopoly  supplier  of  a  
service of the other Party is acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 1  
or  2,  it  may  request  the  other  Party  establishing,  maintaining  or  authorising  
such  supplier  to  provide  specific information  concerning  the  relevant  
operations in its territory.  
 
4.  
 
The provisions of this Article shal  also apply to cases of exclusive  
service suppliers, where a Party, formal y or in effect:  
 
(a)  
authorises or  establishes a  smal   number  of  service  suppliers;  
and   
 
(b)  
substantial y  prevents competition  among  those  suppliers in  its  
territory.  
 
 
Article 10.15: Cooperation  
 
Both Parties shal  encourage and facilitate, as appropriate:  
 
(a)  
public and  private  cooperation  through  the  exchange  of  
knowledge,  experience  and  best  practices in  key  industries so  
as to position them as leaders in their respective regions;  and  
 
(b)   
promoting the use and development of their respective logistics  
services to  facilitate  international  trade,  including,  where  
applicable,  cooperating  in  the  multilateral  fora  to  ensure  that  
countries with interests in logistics facilities are addressed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 - 10  
 
 
 
ANNEX 10A  
MOVEMENT OF BUSINESS PERSONS  
 
 
Article 1: Scope  
 
This Annex applies to measures affecting the movement of natural persons of  
a Party who enter the territory of the other Party for business purposes.  
 
 
Article 2: Definitions  
 
For the purposes of this Annex, the fol owing definitions shal  apply:  
 
1.  
 
immigration    formality    means   a    visa,    employment    pass (in  the  
case  of  Singapore),    working  permit  (in  the  case  of  Panama)  or    other  
document  or  electronic authorisation  granting  a  natural  person  of  one  Party  
the right to reside or work in the territory of the other Party;   
 
2.  
 
intra-corporate transferee means an employee of a service supplier,  
enterprise  of  a  Party  or  an  investor  of  a  Party  as defined  in  Chapter  9  
(Investment),  who  has  been  so  employed  for  a  period of  not  less  than  one   
year    immediately  preceding  the date  of  the  application for  temporary  entry,  
and who is:   
 
(a)  
a  manager,  meaning  a  business person  within  an  organisation  
who primarily directs the organisation or a department  or sub- 
division of the organisation, supervises and controls the work of  
other  supervisory,  professional  or  managerial  employees,  has  
the  authority  to  hire  and  fire  or    take    other  personnel  actions  
(such  as promotion  or  leave  authorisation),  and  exercises  
discretionary    authority  over  day-to-day  operations.    This does  
not  include  a  first-line  supervisor,  unless the  employees  
supervised are professionals, nor does this include an employee  
who primarily performs tasks necessary for the provision of the  
service or operation of an investment;   
 
(b)  
an executive meaning a business person within an organisation  
who  primarily  directs the  management  of  the  organisation,  
exercises wide  latitude    in  decision-making,  and  receives only  
general  supervision  or  direction  from  higher    level  executives,   
the  board    of  directors,    or  stockholders of  the  business.    An  
executive would not directly perform tasks related to the actual  
provision of the service or the operation of an investment; or   
 
(c)  
a  specialist  meaning  a  business  person  within  an  organisation  
who  possesses  knowledge  at  an  advanced    level  of  expertise  
and who possesses proprietary knowledge of the organisation’s  
service,  research  equipment,  techniques,  or  management  (a  
 
 
 
10A - 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
 
specialist  may    include,  but  is not  limited  to,  members of  a  
licensed profession);   
 
temporary entry means entry by an intra-corporate  transferee, as the  
case  may  be, without the intent to establish permanent residence and for the  
purpose of engaging  in activities which are clearly related to their respective  
business purposes.    
 
 
Article 3: Intra-Corporate Transferees  
 
A  Party  shal   grant  temporary  entry  to  an  intra-corporate  transferee  of  the  
other  Party  who  otherwise  meets its criteria  for  the  grant  of  an  immigration  
formality unless there has been a breach of any of the conditions governing  
temporary entry, or an application for an extension of an immigration formality  
has been refused on such grounds of national security or public order by the  
granting Party as it deems fit:   
 
(a)  
in the case of Singapore, for an initial period of up to two years 
which may be extended for periods of up to three years at a time  
for a total term not exceeding 8 years; and   
 
(b)  
in  the  case  of  Panama,  for  an  initial  period  of  up  to  two  years 
which may be extended for periods of up to three years at a time  
for a total term not exceeding 8 years.   
 
 
Article 4: Provision of Information  
 
A Party shal :   
 
(a)  
publish  or  otherwise  make  available  to  the  other  Party  such  
information as wil  enable the other Party to become acquainted  
with its measures relating to this Annex; and     
 
(b)  
no  later  than  six  months  after  the  date  of  entry  into  force   
of  this Agreement, prepare, publish or otherwise make available   
in    its own  territory,  and    in  the  territory  of  the  other    Party,   
explanatory  material  regarding  the requirements for temporary  
entry under this Annex in such a manner as wil  enable business  
persons of the other Party to become acquainted with them.   
 
 
Article 5: Dispute Settlement  
 
1.  
 
A  Party  may  not  initiate  proceedings under  Chapter  15  (Dispute  
Settlement)  regarding  a  refusal  to  grant  temporary  entry  under  this Annex  
unless:   
 
(a)  
the matter involves a pattern of practice; and   
 
 
10A - 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
(b)  
its natural  persons  affected  have  exhausted  the  available  
domestic administrative  remedies regarding  the  particular  
matter.   
 
The  remedies referred  to  in  paragraph  1(b)  shal   be  deemed  to  be  
exhausted  if  a  final  determination  in  the  matter  has not  been  issued  by  the  
competent  authority  within  one  year  of  the  institution  of  proceedings for  
domestic administrative  remedies,  including  proceedings by  way  of  review,  
and the failure to issue a determination is not attributable to delays caused by  
the natural person.   
 
 
Article 6: Expeditious Application Procedures  
 
A  Party  shal   process  expeditiously  applications for  immigration  formalities  
from  natural  persons  of  the  other  Party,  including  further  immigration   
formality  requests or  extensions thereof,  particularly  applications from  
members of  professions for  which  mutual  recognition  arrangements have  
been concluded.   
 
 
Article 7: Notification of Outcome of Application  
 
A  Party  shal   notify  the  applicants for  temporary  entry,  either  directly  or  
through  their  prospective  employers,  of  the  outcome  of  their  applications,  
including the period of stay and other conditions.   
 
 
Article 8: Online Lodgement and Processing   
 
Where  possible,  after  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this Agreement,  the  
Parties shal  provide facilities for online lodgement and processing:    
 
(a)  
in the case of Singapore, of employment passes which shal  be  
applied for by the prospective employers; and   
 
(b)  
in  the  case  of  Panama,  of  working  permits which  shal   be  
applied for by the prospective employers.    
 
 
Article 9: Resolution of Problems  
 
The relevant authorities of both Parties shal  endeavour to favourably resolve  
any specific or general problems (within the framework of their domestic laws,  
regulations and  other  similar  measures governing  the  temporary  entry  of  
natural persons), which may arise from the implementation and administration  
of this Annex.   
 
 
 
 
 
10A - 3 
 
 
 
Article 10: Labour Market Testing    
 
Neither  Party  shal   require  labour market  testing,  labour  certification  tests or  
other procedures of similar effect as a condition for temporary entry in respect  
of natural persons on whom the benefits of this Annex are conferred.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10A - 4 
 
 
 
ANNEX 10B  
MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES  
 
 
Article 1: Scope  
 
This Annex applies to measures adopted or maintained by a Party affecting  
maritime  transport  services by  maritime  transport  service  suppliers of  the  
other Party.  
 
 
Article 2: Taxes, Tariffs and Port Access Fees  
 
1.  
 
On a reciprocal basis, each Party shal  afford vessels of the other Party  
the  same  treatment  that  it  accords to  its own  vessels with  respect  to  taxes  
assessed on tonnage or freight value and other taxes, port access fees and  
levies
1.     
 
2.  
 
Port  services shal   be  made  available  to  international  maritime  
transport  services suppliers of  the  Parties on  reasonable  and  non- 
discriminatory terms and conditions
2.  
 
3.  
 
Vessels of a Party shal  have the right to cal  at ports of the other Party,  
subject  to  advance  notice  requirements of  such  entry  to  the  appropriate  
authorities of that Party. Nothing in this Agreement with respect to port access 
shal   be  construed  to  prevent  either  Party  from  taking  actions  necessary  for  
the protection of its national security, safety or environmental interests.   
 
 
Article 3: Coastwise Transportation of Empty Vans, Tanks and Barges  
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, a vessel of a Party may  
transport the fol owing goods between points embraced within the coastwise  
laws of either Party:   
 
(a)  
Empty  cargo  vans,  empty  lift  vans,  and  empty  shipping  tanks;  
equipment for use with cargo vans, lift vans, or shipping tanks;  
empty barges specifical y designed for carriage aboard a vessel  
and  equipment,  excluding  propulsion  equipment,  for  use  with  
such  barges;  and  empty  instruments of  international  traffic,  
including containers, if such articles are owned or leased by the  
owner or operator of the transporting vessel and are transported  
for his use in handling his cargo in foreign trade; and  
 
1 It is understood that such taxes, fees and levies correspond to those imposed on the basis  
of a jurisdictional exercise of a Party.  
2  Port  Services  such  as:  pilotage;  towing  and  tug  assistance;  provisioning,  fuelling  and  
watering;  garbage  collecting  and  ballast  waste  disposal;  port  captain’s  services;  navigation  
aids;  shored-based  operational  services  essential  to  ship  operations,  including  
communications,  water  and  electrical  supplies;  emergency  repair  facilities;  and  anchorage,  
berth and berthing services. 
 
 
10B - 1 
 
 
 
 
(b)  
Stevedoring  equipment  and  material,  if  such  equipment  and  
material  is owned  or  leased  by  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  
transporting  vessel,  or  is owned  or  leased  by  the  stevedoring  
company  contracting  for  the  lading  or  unlading  of  that  vessel,  
and  is transported  without  charge  for  use  in  the  handling  of  
cargo in foreign trade.  
 
 
Article 4: International Maritime Transport and Feeder Services  
 
Transportation between a port of a Party and a port of the other Party is open.   
In addition, international maritime transport services suppliers of a Party can  
operate between ports of the other Party for the purposes of pre and onward  
carriage of their own international cargo.   
 
 
Article 5: Bilateral of Multilateral Agreements in Force  
 
A  Party  that  is a  party  to  an  agreement  or  arrangement  regarding  maritime  
transport services, whether existing or in future, shal , upon a written request,  
afford  adequate  opportunity  for  the  other  Party,  if  that  other  Party  is  
interested, to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or arrangement or  
to negotiate comparable ones with it.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B - 2 
