 
 
 
CHAPTER 18  
GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS  
 
 
Article 18.1: General Exceptions   
 
1.  
 
For  purposes of  Chapters 2  (Trade  in  Goods),  3  (Rules of  Origin),  4  
(Customs Procedure) and 6 (Technical Barriers to Trade), Article XX of GATT  
1994  and  its interpretive  notes are  incorporated  into  and  made  part  of  this  
Agreement,  mutatis  mutandis.  The  Parties understand  that  the  measures 
referred  to  in  Article  XX(b)  of  GATT  1994  include  environmental  measures  
necessary  to  protect  human,  animal,  or  plant  life  or  health,  and  that  Article  
XX(g) of GATT 1994 applies to measures relating to the conservation of living  
and non-living exhaustible natural resources.  
 
2.   
For  purposes of  Chapters 9  (Investment),  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  
Services),  12  (Telecommunications)  and  13  (Electronic Commerce),  Article  
XIV  of  GATS  (including  its footnotes)  is incorporated  into  and  made  part  of  
this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. The Parties understand that the measures  
referred  to  in  Article  XIV(b)  of  GATS  include  environmental  measures  
necessary to protect human, animal, or plant life or health.  
 
 
Article 18.2: Essential Security   
 
Unless otherwise  provided  for  in  this Agreement,  nothing  in  this Agreement  
shal  be construed to:  
 
(a)   require a Party to furnish or al ow access to any information, the  
disclosure of which it  determines to be contrary to its essential  
security interests; or  
 
(b)   preclude  a  Party  from  applying  measures that  it  considers 
necessary for the fulfilment of its obligations with respect to the  
maintenance or restoration of international peace or security, or  
the protection of its own essential security interests
1.   
 
 
Article 18.3:  Taxation   
 
1.  
 
Except as set out in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shal  apply 
to taxation measures.  
 
2.  
 
Nothing  in  this Agreement  shal   affect  the  rights and  obligations of  
either  Party  under  any  tax  convention.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  
between  this Agreement  and  any  such  convention,  that  convention  shal   
 
 
1 For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement shal  prevent a Party from taking any action  
which it considers necessary for the protection of critical communications infrastructure from  
deliberate attempts intended to disable or degrade such infrastructure.  
 
18 - 1 
 
 
 
prevail  to  the  extent  of  the  inconsistency.  In  the  case  of  a  tax  convention  
between  the  Parties,  the  competent  authorities under  that  convention  shal   
have  sole  responsibility  for  determining  whether  any  inconsistency  exists 
between this Agreement and that convention.   
 
3.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  
 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2:  
 
(a)  
Article 2.2 (National Treatment) and such other provisions of this  
Agreement  as are  necessary  to  give  effect  to  that  Article  shal   
apply to taxation measures to the same extent as does Article III  
of GATT 1994; and  
 
(b)  
Article 2.4 (Export Duties) shal  apply to taxation measures.  
 
Subject to paragraph 2:  
 
(a)  
Article  9.3  (National  Treatment)  and  Article  10.3  (National  
Treatment) shal  not be applied to the adoption or enforcement  
of  any  taxation  measure  aimed  at  ensuring  the  equitable  or  
effective  imposition  or  col ection  of  taxes permitted  by  Article  
XIV(d) of GATS; and  
 
(b)  
Article  9.4  (Most-Favoured  Nation  Treatment)  and  Article  10.4  
(Most-Favoured  Nation  Treatment)  shal   not  be  applied  to  any  
Most-Favoured  Nation  obligation  with  respect  to  an  advantage  
accorded  to  a  Party pursuant  to  an  agreement  on  double  
taxation or provisions on the avoidance of double taxation in any  
international  agreement  or  arrangement  by  which  a  Party  is 
bound, as permitted by Article XIV(e) of GATS.  
 
Subject  to  paragraph  2  and  without  prejudice  to  the  rights and  
obligations of  Parties  under  Articles 9.6.2,  9.6.3  and  9.6.4  (Performance  
Requirements) shal  apply to taxation measures.   
 
6.  
 
Article  9.7  (Expropriation  and  Compensation)  shal   apply  to  taxation  
measures to the extent that such taxation measures constitute expropriation  
as provided for in Article 9.7 (Expropriation and Compensation)
2. An investor  
that  seeks  to  invoke  Article  9.7  (Expropriation  and  Compensation)  with  
respect  to  a  taxation  measure  must  first  refer  to  the  competent  authorities  
described in paragraph 7 at the time that it gives notice under Article 9.13.4(c)  
(Investor-State  Dispute  Settlement),  the  issue  of  whether  that  taxation  
 
2  With  reference  to  Article  9.7  (Expropriation  and  Compensation)  and  this  paragraph,  in  
assessing whether a taxation measure constitutes expropriation, the fol owing considerations  
are relevant: (i) the imposition of taxes does not general y constitute expropriation. The mere  
introduction  of  new  taxation  measures  in  respect  of  an  investment  does  not  in  and  of  itself  
constitute expropriation; and (i )  taxation measures which are applied on a non-discriminatory  
basis,  as  opposed  to  being  targeted  at  investors  of  a  particular  nationality  or  specific  
individual taxpayers, are less likely to constitute expropriation. A taxation measure should not  
constitute  expropriation  if,  when  the  investment  is  made,  it  was  already  in  force,  and  
information about the measure was made public or otherwise made publicly available.   
 
 
18 - 2 
 
 
 
measure involves an expropriation. If the competent authorities do not agree  
to  consider  the  issue  or,  having  agreed  to  consider  it,  fail  to  agree  that  the  
measure is not an expropriation within a period of 6 months of such referral,  
the  investor  may  submit  its claim  to  arbitration  under  Article  9.13  (Investor- 
State Dispute Settlement). 
 
7.  
 
For purposes of this Article:  
 
competent authorities means:  
 
(a)  
in the case of Singapore, Director (Fiscal Planning), Ministry of  
Finance, or his successor; and   
 
(b)  
in the case of Panama, Ministry of Economy and Finance or his  
successor; and  
 
taxes and taxation measures do not include:  
 
(a)   a “customs duty” as defined in Article 2.16.2 (Definitions); or  
 
(b)  
the measures listed in exception (b) and (c) of the definition of  
customs duty in Article 2.16.2 (Definitions).  
 
 
Article  18.4:  Transfers  and  Restrictions  to  Safeguard  the  Balance  of  
Payments  
 
1. 
 
For  the  purpose  of  Chapter  2  (Trade  in  Goods),  the  Parties shal   
endeavour  to  avoid  the  imposition  of  restrictive  measures  for  balance  of  
payments purposes.  
 
2.  
 
Any  such  measures taken  for  trade  in  goods must  be  in  accordance  
with Art XII of GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance of Payments  
Provisions of GATT 1994, which shal  be incorporated and made a part of this  
Agreement.  
 
3.  
 
For  purposes of  Chapters 9  (Investment),  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  
Services) and 11 (Financial Services), Articles XI and XII of GATS (including  
its footnotes)  is incorporated  into  and  made  part  of  this Agreement,  mutatis  
mutandis.  For  greater  certainty,  it  is  clarified  that  such  restrictions shal   be  
applied on a national treatment basis and such that the other Party is treated  
no less favourably than any non-Party.  
 
 
Article 18.5: Disclosure of Information  
 
Nothing in this Agreement shal  be construed to require a Party to furnish or  
al ow access to confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede  
law  enforcement,  or  otherwise  be  contrary  to  the  public interest,  or  which  
 
 
 
18 - 3 
 
 
 
would  prejudice  the  legitimate  commercial  interests of  particular  enterprises,  
public or private, unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement
3.   
 
 
Article 18.6: Accession  
 
1.  
 
Any  country  or  group  of  countries may  accede  to  this Agreement  
subject to such terms and conditions as may be agreed between such country  
or  countries and  the  Parties,  and  fol owing  approval  in  accordance  with  the  
applicable legal procedures of each country.  
 
2.   
This Agreement  shal   not  apply  as between  any  Party and  any  
acceding country or group of countries if, at the time of the accession, either  
does not consent to such accession.  
 
 
Article 18.7: Relation to other Agreements   
 
In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  this Agreement  and  any  other  
agreement  to  which  both  Parties are  parties,  the  Parties  shal   immediately  
consult with each other with a view to finding a mutual y satisfactory solution.  
 
 
Article 18.8 Annexes   
 
The Annexes to this Agreement shal  form an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
 
Article 18.9: Amendments   
 
This Agreement  may  be  amended  with  the  agreement  of  the  Parties.  Any  
amendments shal   be  in  writing  and  shal   enter  into  force  on  such  date  or  
dates as may be agreed between them.  
 
 
Article 18.10: Entry into Force and Termination   
 
1.  
 
This Agreement shal  enter into force on the date on which the Parties  
have  exchanged  notes confirming  the  completion  of  their  respective  
procedures for  the  entry  into  force  of  this Agreement,  or  such other  date  as  
the Parties may agree.   
 
2.  
 
Either Party may terminate the Agreement by giving the other Party six 
months’ advance notice in writing.   
 
3.  
 
Within  30  days after  the  date  of  receipt  of  a  notification  under  
paragraph  2,  either  Party  may  request  consultations regarding  whether  the  
 
3  For  greater  certainty,  nothing  in  the  Agreement  shal   be  construed  to  require  a  Party  to  
disclose  information  relating  to  the  affairs  and  accounts  of  individual  customers  or  any  
confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public entities.  
 
18 - 4 
 
 
 
termination  of  any  provision  of  this Agreement  should  take  effect  at  a  later  
date  than  provided  under  paragraph  2.  Such  consultations shal   commence  
within 30 days of a Party’s receipt of such request.  
 
4.  
 
In the event of termination of this Agreement, in respect of investments  
made  prior  to  the  date  when  the  notice  of  termination  of  the  Agreement  
becomes effective, the provisions of Chapter 9 (Investment) shal  continue in  
force for a further period of 10 years from that date.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF  the  undersigned,  being  duly  authorized  by  their  
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.   
 
 
 
DONE at Singapore on this 1
st day of March, 2006, in duplicate in the English  
and  Spanish  languages,  both  texts being  equal y  authentic.  In  case  of  any  
divergence of interpretation, the English text shal  prevail.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Singapore  
Chan Soo Sen  
Minister of State  
for Trade and Industry and Education  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 - 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Panama  
Carmen Gisela Vergara  
Vice-Minister for Foreign Trade  
Ministry of Trade and Industries  
