 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
NON-CONFORMING MEASURES
( ) 
SECTION A 
PANAMA 
 
 
  
Section A 
 
Sector:  Banking Services and other financial services (excluding 
insurance) 
 
Description:  The Branches of Foreign Banks shall designate at least two 
(2)  general  proxies,  being  both  natural  persons  with 
residence in Panama, and at least one of them shall be a 
Panamanian citizen.  
 
Type of :    National Treatment 
Reservation 
 
Measures:  Article 37 of Decree-Law No. 9 of February 26, 1998, by 
means of which the banking system is reformed and the 
Banking  Supervisory  Board  is  created.  Published  in  the 
Official Gazette No. 23,499 of March 12, 1998.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  IIIA - PA - 1  
Sector:  Banking Services and other financial services (excluding 
insurance) 
 
Type of:     Senior Management and Board of Directors 
Reservation 
 
Measures:  Article 10 of Law No. 52 of December 13, 2000, by means 
of which the Caja de Ahorros (National Savings Bank) is 
reorganized. Published in the Official Gazette No. 24,201 of 
December 15, 2000.  
 
Description:  The  General  Manager,  Assistant  General  Manager  and 
Director or Deputy Director of the Board of Directors of the 
Caja de Ahorros must be Panamanian nationals by birth or 
naturalized  citizens  who  have  resided  in  Panama  for  at 
least ten years.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  IIIA - PA - 2  
Sector:      Insurance companies 
Administrators of insurance enterprises 
        Insurance brokers or adjustors 
 
Type of :    National Treatment 
Reservation   Cross-border Trade in Financial Services 
Senior Management and Board of Directors 
 
Measures:  Articles 26, 90, 105 and 108 of Law No. 59 of July 29, 1996, 
“by  means  of  which  the  Insuring  Organizations, 
Administrators  of  Insurance  Enterprises  and  Brokers  or 
Adjustors;  and  the  Profession  of  Insurance  Broker  or 
Producer are regulated”. Published in the Official Gazette 
No. 23,092 of August 1, 1996. 
   
Articles 1 and 7 of Executive Decree No. 12 of April 7, 1998, 
“by  means  of  which  the  requirements  for  acting  as  an 
Administrator of Insurance Broker, Insurance Adjustor and 
Damage Inspector are regulated”. 
 
Description:  Entities, enterprises and persons domiciled in the Republic 
of Panama shall insure all property and persons located in 
Panama with insurance companies authorized to operate in 
Panama.  The  Insurance  and  Reinsurance  Supervisory 
Board having verified that such insurance policies can not 
be obtained form insurance carriers authorized to operate in 
Panama, may grant authorization to obtain them abroad 
and, to that effect, shall complete the pertinent registers. 
 
The entities, enterprises or person referred in the previous 
paragraph shall register any granted authorizations with the 
Insurance and Reinsurance Supervisory Board. 
 
To obtain the license of insurance broker, it is required to be 
a Panamanian residing in the Republic of Panama or to 
comply with the requirements to run a retail business as 
indicated in Page I-PA-1. 
 
  IIIA - PA - 3  
 
Only  juridical  persons  whose  legal  representative  and 
shareholders  possess  insurance  broker’s  license  in 
Panama  may  apply  for  the  Insurance  Broker’s 
License-Juridical Person. 
 
Only natural persons with insurance broker’s license may 
form companies to provide insurance brokerage services. 
 
The owners of shares of the juridical persons with insurance 
broker’s license should be insurance brokers, except for the 
case  of  natural  persons  that  receive  such  shares  by 
hereditary succession. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  IIIA - PA - 4  
Sector:      Insurance  
 
Type of :    Cross-Border Trade 
Reservation  
 
Measures:  Article 4 of Decree 90-LEG of April 9, 2002.   
Articles 20 and 26 of Law No. 59 of July 29, 1996. 
Article 111 of Law 56 of December 27, 1995. 
 
Description:  Only insurance companies and banks registered to operate 
in  the  Republic  of  Panama  with  economic  solvency 
recognized  by  the  Superintendencia  de  Seguros  y 
Reaseguros  and  the  Superintendencia  de  Bancos  may 
provide surety bonds or banking guarantees respectively for 
government procurement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  IIIA - PA - 5  
Sector:      Reinsurance or underwriters entities 
Administrators of reinsurance 
Reinsurance brokers 
 
Type of :    National Treatment 
Reservation 
 
Measures:  Article 10 of Law No. 63 of September 19, 1996, published 
in the Official Gazette No. 23,129 of September 24, 1996, 
by means of which the operations of reinsurance and those 
of companies dedicated to this activity are regulated. 
 
Description:  Companies  authorized  to  engage  in  the  reinsurance 
business must designate at least two general proxies; being 
both natural persons with residence in Panama, and at least 
one of them shall be a Panamanian citizen. 
 
 
 
  IIIA - PA - 6 