 
 
 
CHAPTER 11  
FINANCIAL SERVICES  
 
 
Article 11.1: Scope and Coverage  
 
1.   
This Chapter  applies to  measures adopted  or  maintained  by  a  Party  
relating to:  
 
(a)   financial institutions of the other Party;  
 
(b)  
investors of the other Party, and investments of such investors,  
in financial institutions in the Party’s territory; and  
 
(c)   cross-border trade in financial services.  
 
2.   
Chapters 9  (Investment)  and  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services)  
apply  to  measures described  in  paragraph  1  only  to  the  extent  that  these  
Chapters or  the  Articles therein  are  incorporated  into  this  Chapter.  
Accordingly:  
 
(a)   Articles 9.7  (Expropriation  and  Compensation),  9.8  (Transfers),  
9.11  (Denial  of  Benefits)  and  10.12  (Denial  of  Benefits)  are  
hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Chapter;  
 
(b)   Article  9.13  (Investor-State  Dispute  Settlement)  is hereby  
incorporated  into  and  made  a  part  of  this Chapter  solely  for  
claims that a Party has breached Articles 9.7 (Expropriation and  
Compensation),  9.8  (Transfers),  9.11  (Denial  of  Benefits)  as  
incorporated into this Chapter; and  
 
(c)  
Article 10.11 (Transfers and Payments), is incorporated into and  
made a part of this Chapter to the extent that cross-border trade  
in financial services is subject to obligations pursuant to Article  
11.5.  
 
3.   
This Chapter does not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a  
Party relating to:  
 
(a)  
activities or services forming part of a public retirement plan or  
statutory system of social security; or  
 
(b)   activities or  services conducted  for  the  account  or  with  the  
guarantee or using the financial resources of the Party, including  
its public entities,   
 
except  that  this Chapter  shal   apply  if  a  Party  al ows any  of  the  
activities or  services referred  to  in  sub-paragraphs (a)  or  (b)  to  be  
conducted by its financial institutions in competition with a public entity  
or a financial institution.  
 
 
11 - 1 
 
 
 
 
4.  
 
 
 
 
This Chapter  does  not  apply  to  laws,  regulation  or  requirements  
governing  the  procurement  by  government  agencies of  financial  services 
purchased for government purposes and not with a view to commercial resale  
or use in the supply of services for commercial sale.  
 
 
Article 11.2: National Treatment  
 
1.   
Each  Party  shal   accord  to  investors of  the  other  Party  treatment  no  
less favorable than that it accords to its own investors, in like circumstances,  
with  respect  to  the  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion,  management,  
conduct,  operation,  and  sale  or  other  disposition  of  financial  institutions and  
investments in financial institutions in its territory.  
 
2.   
Each Party shal  accord to financial institutions of the other Party and to  
investments of investors of the other Party in financial institutions treatment no  
less favourable  than  that  it  accords to  its own  financial  institutions,  and  to  
investments of its own investors in financial institutions, in like circumstances,  
with  respect  to  the  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion,  management,  
conduct,  operation,  and  sale  or  other  disposition  of  financial  institutions and  
investments.  
 
3.   
For  purposes of  the  national  treatment  obligations in  Article  11.6.1,  a  
Party shal  accord to cross-border financial service suppliers of the other Party  
treatment  no  less favorable  than  that  it  accords to  its own  financial  service  
suppliers,  in  like  circumstances,  with  respect  to  the  supply  of  the  relevant  
service. 
 
 
Article 11.3: Most-Favoured Nation Treatment  
 
Each Party shal  accord to investors of the other Party, financial institutions of  
the  other  Party,  investments of  investors in  financial  institutions,  and  cross- 
border  financial  service  suppliers of  the  other  Party  treatment  no  less  
favorable  than  that  it  accords  to  the  investors,  financial  institutions,  
investments of  investors in  financial  institutions and  cross-border  financial  
service suppliers of the other Party or of a non-Party, in like circumstances. 
 
 
Article 11.4: Recognition of Prudential Measures  
 
1.   
A Party may recognise prudential measures of the other Party or of a  
non-Party  in  the  application  of  measures covered  by  this Chapter.  Such  
recognition may be:  
 
(a)  
 accorded unilateral y;  
 
(b)  
 achieved through harmonization or other means; or  
 
 
 
 
11 - 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
(c)  
based upon an agreement or arrangement with the other Party  
or a non-Party.  
 
 A Party according recognition of prudential measures under paragraph  
1  shal   provide  adequate  opportunity  to  the  other  Party  to  demonstrate  that  
circumstances exist  in  which  there  are  or  would  be  equivalent  regulation,  
oversight,  implementation  of  regulation,  and,  if  appropriate,  procedures  
concerning the sharing of information between the Parties.  
 
3.   
Where  a  Party  accords recognition  of  prudential  measures under  
paragraph 1(c) and the circumstances set out in paragraph 2 exist, the Party  
shal  provide adequate opportunity to the other Party to negotiate accession to  
the  agreement  or  arrangement,  or  to  negotiate  a  comparable  agreement  or  
arrangement.  
 
 
Article 11.5: Market Access for Financial Institutions  
 
A Party shal  not adopt or maintain, with respect to financial institutions of the  
other Party, either on the basis of a regional sub-division or on the basis of its  
entire territory, measures that:  
 
(a)  
impose limitations on:  
 
(i)   
the number of financial institutions whether in the form of  
numerical  quotas,  monopolies,  exclusive  service  
suppliers, or the requirements of an economic needs test;  
 
(i )   
the total value of financial service transactions or assets  
in the form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an  
economic needs test;  
 
(i i)   the  total  number  of  financial  service  operations or  the  
total  quantity  of  financial  services output  expressed  in  
terms of designated numerical units in the form of quotas  
or the requirement of an economic needs test; or  
 
(iv)  
 the  total  number  of  natural  persons that  may  be  
employed in a particular financial service sector or that a  
financial  institution  may  employ  and  who  are  necessary  
for,  and  directly  related  to,  the  supply  of  a  specific  
financial  service  in  the  form  of  a  numerical  quota  or  the  
requirement of an economic needs test; or  
 
(b)   
restrict  or  require  specific types of  legal  entity  or  joint  venture  
through which a financial institution may supply a service.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 - 3 
 
 
 
Article 11.6: Cross-Border Trade in Financial Services  
 
1.   
Each  Party  shal   permit,  under  terms and  conditions  that  accord  
national treatment, cross-border financial service suppliers of the other Party  
to supply the financial services as specified in Annex 11.6.  
 
2.  
 
A  Party  shal   permit  persons located  in  its territory,  and  its nationals 
wherever  located,  to  purchase  financial  services from  cross-border  financial  
service suppliers of the other Party located in the territory of that other Party.    
 
3.  
 
This Article  does not  require  a  Party  to  permit  such  suppliers to  do  
business or solicit in its territory. Each Party may define “doing business” and  
“solicitation” for purposes of this obligation, as long as such definitions are not  
inconsistent with paragraph 1.  
 
4.  
 
 Without  prejudice  to  other  means of  prudential  regulation  of  cross- 
border  trade  in  financial  services,  a  Party  may  require  the  registration,  
authorisation  or  licensing  of  cross-border  financial  service  suppliers of  the  
other Party and of financial instruments. 
 
 
Article 11.7: New Financial Services
1 
 
A Party shal  permit a financial institution of the other Party to supply any new  
financial  service  that  the  former  Party  would  permit  its own  financial  
institutions,  in  like  circumstances,  to  supply  without  additional  legislative  
action by the Party.  Notwithstanding Article 11.5(b), a Party may determine  
the institutional and juridical form through which the new financial service may  
be  supplied  and  may  require  authorization  for  the  supply  of  the  service.   
Where  a  Party  requires such  authorization  of  the  new  financial  service,  a  
decision  shal   be  made  within  a  reasonable  time  and  the  authorization  may  
only be refused for prudential reasons.  
 
 
Article 11.8:  Treatment of Certain Information  
 
Nothing in this Chapter requires a Party to furnish or al ow access to:  
 
(a)  
information  related  to  the  financial  affairs  and  accounts  of  
individual  customers of  financial  institutions or  cross-border  
financial service suppliers; or  
 
(b)  
any  confidential  information,  the  disclosure  of  which  would  
impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public  
 
1 The Parties understand that nothing in this Article 11.7 prevents a financial institution of a  
Party from applying to the other Party to consider authorizing the supply of a financial service  
that is not supplied in the territory of any Party. Such application shal  be subject to the law of  
the Party to which the application is made and, for greater certainty, shall not be subject to the  
obligations of Article 11.7.  
 
 
 
11 - 4 
 
 
 
interests or  prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests of  
particular enterprises.  
 
 
Article 11.9: Senior Management and Boards of Directors  
 
1.   
A  Party  may  not  require  financial  institutions of  the  other  Party to  
engage individuals of any particular nationality as senior managerial or other  
essential personnel.  
 
2.   
A  Party  may  not  require  that  a  majority  of  the  board  of  directors of  a  
financial institution of the other Party be composed of nationals of the Party,  
persons residing in the territory of the Party, or a combination thereof.  
 
 
Article 11.10: Non-Conforming Measures  
 
1.   
Articles 10.2, 10.3, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.9 do not apply to:  
 
(a)   
any  existing  non-conforming  measure  that  is maintained  by  a  
Party at the central level of government, as set out by that Party  
in  Section  A  of  its Schedule  to  Annex  III  (Non-Conforming  
Measures); or  
 
(b)   
the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any  non-conforming  
measure referred to in sub-paragraph (a).  
 
2.  
 
 Articles 10.2, 10.3, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.9 do not apply to any measure  
that  a  Party  adopts or  maintains with  respect  to  sectors,  sub-sectors,  or  
activities,  as set  out  in  Section  B  of  its  Schedule  to  Annex  III  (Future  
Measures).  
 
3.   
Section  C  of  the  Schedule  to  Annex  III  establishes certain  specific  
commitments by each Party.  
 
4.  
 
A non-conforming measure set out in a Party’s Schedule to Annex I or  
II as a measure to which Articles 9.3 (National Treatment), 9.4 (Most-Favored  
Nation  Treatment),  10.3  (National  Treatment),  10.4  (Most-Favored  Nation  
Treatment)  and  10.5  (Market  Access)  does not  apply,  shal   be  treated  as a  
non-conforming measure described in paragraph 1(a) to which Articles 11.2,  
11.3,  or  11.5,  as the  case  may  be,  does not  apply,  to  the  extent  that  the  
measure,  sector,  sub-sector  or  activity  set  out  in  the  schedule  of  non- 
conforming measures is covered by this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 11.11: Exceptions  
 
1.   
Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this Chapter,  Chapters  9  
(Investment),  12  (Telecommunications)  or  13  (Electronic Commerce),  
including specifical y  Article 12.12 (Relationship  with  other  Chapters), and in  
 
 
11 - 5 
 
 
 
addition  Article  11.1  with  respect  to  the  supply  of  financial  services in  the  
territory of a Party by an investor of the other Party or investments of investors  
of the other Party, as defined in Chapter 9 (Investment), a Party shal  not be  
prevented  from  adopting  or  maintaining  measures for  prudential  reasons
2,  
including for the protection of investors, depositors, policy holders or persons  
to  whom  a  fiduciary  duty  is owed  by  a  financial  institution  or  cross-border  
financial service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial  
system.  Where  such  measures do  not  conform  with  the  provisions of  this  
Agreement referred to in this paragraph, they shal  not be used as a means of  
avoiding the Party’s commitments or obligations under such provisions.  
2.   
Nothing  
in  
this 
Chapter,  
Chapters 
9  
(Investment),  
12  
(Telecommunications)  or  13    (Electronic Commerce),  including  specifical y  
Article  12.12  (Relationship  with  other  Chapters),  and  in  addition  Article  11.1  
with respect to the supply of financial services in the territory of a Party by an  
investor of the other Party or investments of investors of the other Party, as  
defined in Chapter 9 (Investment), applies to non-discriminatory measures of  
general  application  taken  by  any  public entity  in  pursuit  of  monetary  and  
related  credit  policies  or  exchange  rate  policies.  This paragraph  shal   not  
affect  a  Party’s obligations under  Articles 9.6  (Performance  Requirements),  
9.8 (Transfers) or 10.11 (Transfers and Payments).  
 
3.  
 
Notwithstanding  Articles 9.8  (Transfers)  or  10.11  (Transfers and  
Payments),  as incorporated  into  this Chapter,  a  Party  may  prevent  or  limit  
transfers by a financial institution or cross-border financial service supplier to,  
or  for  the  benefit  of,  an  affiliate  of  or  person  related  to  such  institution  or  
supplier, through the equitable, non-discriminatory and good faith application  
of  measures relating  to  maintenance  of  the  safety,  soundness,  integrity  or  
financial responsibility of financial institutions or cross-border financial service  
suppliers.  This paragraph  does not  prejudice  any  other  provision  of  this  
Agreement that permits a Party to restrict transfers.  
 
4.  
 
For  greater  certainty,  nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   be  construed  to  
prevent the adoption or enforcement by any Party of measures necessary to  
secure compliance with laws or regulations that are not inconsistent with this 
Chapter, including those relating to the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent  
practices or to deal with the effects of a default on financial services contracts,  
subject  to  the  requirement  that  such  measures are  not  applied  in  a  manner  
which  would  constitute  a  means  of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  
between countries where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on  
investment in financial institutions or cross-border trade in financial services.  
 
 
Article 11.12: Transparency  
 
1.   
The  Parties recognise  that  transparent  regulations and  policies 
governing  the  activities of  financial  institutions and  cross-border  financial  
 
2 It is understood that the term “prudential reasons” includes the maintenance of the safety,  
soundness,  integrity  or  financial  responsibility  of  individual  financial  institutions  or  cross- 
border financial service suppliers.  
 
 
11 - 6 
 
 
 
service  suppliers are  important  in  facilitating  financial  institutions located  
outside  the  territory  of  the  Party,  financial  institutions  of  the  other  Party  and  
cross-border financial service suppliers to gain access to and operate in the  
other Party’s market. Each Party commits to promote regulatory transparency  
in financial services.  
 
2.  
 
In  lieu  of  Article  14.2  (Publication),  a  Party  shal ,  to  the  extent  
practicable:  
 
(a)   publish  in  advance  any  regulations of  general  application  
relating to the subject matter of this Chapter that it proposes to  
adopt; and  
 
(b)   provide  interested  persons of  the  other  Party 
a  reasonable  
opportunity to comment on such proposed regulations.  
 
3.   
At  the  time  it  adopts final  regulations,  a  Party  should,  to  the  extent  
practicable,  address in  writing  any substantive  comments received  from  
interested persons with respect to the proposed regulations.  
 
4.  
 
 To  the  extent  practicable,  each  Party  should  al ow  reasonable  time  
between publication of final regulations and their effective date.  
 
5.   
Each Party shal  ensure that the rules of general application adopted or  
maintained  by  their  self-regulatory  organisations are  promptly  published  or  
otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable interested persons to  
become acquainted with them.  
 
6.   
Each Party shal  maintain or establish appropriate mechanisms that wil   
respond  to  inquiries from  interested  persons  regarding  measures of  general  
application covered by this Chapter.  
 
7.   
Each  Party’s regulatory  authorities shal   make  available  to  interested  
persons their  requirements,  including  any  documentation  required,  for  
completing applications relating to the supply of financial services.  
 
8.   
On the request of an applicant, the regulatory authority shal  inform the  
applicant  of  the  status  of  its application.  If  such  authority  requires  additional  
information  from  the  applicant,  it  shal   notify  the  applicant  without  undue  
delay.  
 
9.  
 
 A  regulatory  authority  shal   make  an  administrative  decision  on  a  
completed  application  of  an  investor  in  a  financial  institution,  a  financial  
institution  or  a  cross-border  financial  service  supplier  of  the  other  Party  
relating to the supply of a financial service within 120 days, and shal  promptly  
notify  the  applicant  of  the  decision.  An  application  shal   not  be  considered  
complete until al  relevant hearings are held and al  necessary information is 
received.  Where  it  is not  practicable  for  a  decision  to  be  made  within  120  
days,  the  regulatory  authority  shal   notify  the  applicant  without  undue  delay  
and shal  endeavour to make the decision within a reasonable time thereafter.  
 
 
11 - 7 
 
 
 
Article 11.13: Self-Regulatory Organisations  
 
Where  a  Party  requires a  financial  institution  or  a  cross-border  financial  
service supplier of the other Party to be a member of, participate in, or have  
access to,  a  self-regulatory  organisation  to  provide  a  financial  service  in  or  
into the  territory  of  that  Party,  that  Party  shal   ensure  observance  of  the  
obligations set  out  in  Articles 11.2  and  11.3 
by  such  self-regulatory  
organisation.  
 
 
Article 11.14: Consultations  
 
1.   
A Party may  request consultations with the other Party regarding  any  
matter arising under this Agreement that affects financial services. The other  
Party  shal   give  sympathetic consideration  to  the  request.  The  Parties shal   
report  the  results of  their  consultations to  the  Administrative  Commission  
established  pursuant  to  Article  17.1  (Administrative  Commission  of  the  
Agreement).  
 
2.   
Consultations under this Article shal  include officials of the authorities  
specified in Annex 11A.  
 
3.  
 
Nothing  in  this Article  shal   be  construed  to  require  regulatory 
authorities participating  in  consultations under  paragraph  1  to  disclose  
information  or  take  any  action  that  would  interfere  with  specific regulatory,  
supervisory, administrative, or enforcement matters.  
 
4.   
Nothing in this Article shal  be construed to require a Party to derogate  
from  its relevant  law  regarding  sharing  of  information  among  financial  
regulators or  the  requirements of  an  agreement  or  arrangement  between  
financial authorities of the Parties.   
 
 
Article 11.15: Dispute Settlement  
 
1.   
Except otherwise provided for, Chapter 15 (Dispute Settlement) applies  
as modified  by  this Article  to  the  settlement  of  disputes arising  under  this  
Chapter.  
 
2.  
 
When a Party claims that a dispute arises under this Chapter, the panel  
shal  compose:  
 
(a)   where  the  disputing  Parties so  agree,  entirely  of  panelists  
meeting the criteria set out in paragraph 3; and  
 
(b)  
in any other case, panelists meeting the criteria set out in either  
paragraph 3 or in Article 15.7.5 (Composition of Arbitral Panels),  
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 - 8 
 
 
 
However,  the  chair  of  the  panel  shal   meet  the  criteria  set  out  in  
paragraph 3 if Article 11.11 is invoked by the Party complained against,  
unless the Parties agree otherwise.  
 
3.   
Financial services panelists shal :  
 
(a)   
have  expertise  or  experience  in  financial  services law  or  
practice,  which  may  include  the  regulation  of  financial  
institutions;  
 
(b)   
be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability and sound  
judgment; and  
 
(c)   
meet the criteria set out in Article 15.7.5 (Composition of Arbitral  
Panels).  
 
4.   
Notwithstanding  Article  15.16  of  Dispute  Settlement  (Non- 
implementation – Compensation and Suspension of Benefits), where a panel  
finds a  measure  to  be  inconsistent  with  this Agreement  and  the  measure  
under dispute affects:  
 
(a)   only  the  financial  services sector,  the  complaining  Party  may 
suspend benefits only in the financial services sector;  
 
(b)  
the  financial  services sector  and  any  other  sector,  the  
complaining Party may suspend benefits in the financial services 
sector that have an effect equivalent to the effect of the measure  
in the Party’s financial services sector; or  
 
(c)  
only  a  sector  other  than  the  financial  services sector,  the  
complaining  Party  may  not  suspend  benefits in  the  financial  
services sector.  
 
 
Article 11.16: Definitions  
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
1.  
 
cross-border  financial  service  supplier  of  a  Party  means a person  
of  a  Party  that  is engaged  in  the  business  of  supplying  a  financial  service  
within the territory of the Party and that seeks to supply or supplies a financial  
service through the cross-border supply of such services;  
 
2.  
 
cross-border trade in financial services or cross-border supply of  
financial services means the supply of a financial service:  
 
(a)   from the territory of one Party into the territory of the other Party;  
 
(b)   in  the  territory  of  one  Party  by  one  person  of  that  Party  to  a  
person of the other Party; or  
 
 
11 - 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
 
 
(c)  
by a national of one Party in the territory of the other Party,   
 
but does not include the supply of a financial service in the territory of a  
Party  by  an  investor  of  the  other  Party,  or    investments  of  such  
investors, in financial institutions in the Party’s territory;  
 
enterprise of a Party means an enterprise, as defined in Article 1.3.3  
(Definitions of General Application), organised or constituted under the laws of  
a Party and a branch located in the territory of a Party. For the purposes of  
this Chapter, an enterprise of a Party includes a branch of an enterprise of a  
non-Party in the territory of a Party;  
 
4.  
 
financial  institution  
means  any  financial  intermediary  or  other  
enterprise that is authorised to do business and regulated or supervised as a  
financial institution under the law of the Party in whose territory is located;  
 
5.  
 
financial  institution  of  the  other  Party  means  a financial  institution,  
including  a  branch,  located  in  the  territory  of  a  Party  that  is control ed  by  
persons of the other Party;   
 
6.  
 
financial  service  means any  service  of  a  financial  nature.  Financial  
services include al  insurance and insurance-related services, and al  banking  
and  other  financial  services (excluding  insurance),  as wel   as services  
incidental  or  auxiliary to  a  service  of  a  financial  nature.  Financial  services  
include the fol owing activities:  
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(a)   direct insurance (including co-insurance):  
 
(i)  
 
 life;  
 
(i )  
 non-life;  
 
(b)  
reinsurance and retrocession;  
 
(c)   insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency;  
 
(d)   service  auxiliary  to  insurance,  such  as consultancy,  actuarial,  
risk assessment and claim settlement services.  
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance)  
 
(e)   
acceptance  of  deposits and  other  repayable  funds from  the  
public;  
 
(f)  
lending of al  types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit,  
factoring and financing of commercial transactions;  
 
 
 
 
11 - 10  
 
 
 
(g)   financial leasing;  
 
(h)   al   payment  and  money  transmission  services,  including  credit,  
charge and debit cards, travelers checks and bankers drafts;  
 
(i)   
guarantees and commitments;  
 
(j)   
trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on  
an  exchange,  in  an  over-the-counter  market  or  otherwise,  the  
fol owing:  
 
(i)   
money  market  instruments (including  checks,  bil s,  
certificates of deposits);  
 
(i )   foreign exchange;  
 
(i i)   derivative  products including,  but  not  limited  to,  futures  
and options;  
 
(iv)   exchange  rate  and  interest  rate  instruments,  including  
products such as swaps, forward rate agreements;  
 
(v)   transferable securities;  
 
(vi)   other  negotiable  instruments and  financial  assets,  
including bul ion;  
 
(k)   
participation  in  issues of  al   kinds of  securities,  including  
underwriting  and  placement  as agent  (whether  publicly  or  
privately) and provision of services related to such issues;  
 
(l)   
money broking;  
 
(m)  
asset  management,  such  as cash  or  portfolio  management,  al   
forms of  col ective  investment  management,  pension  fund  
management, custodial, depository and trust services;  
 
(n)   
settlement  and  clearing  services for  financial  assets,  including  
securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments;  
 
(o)   
provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data  
processing  and  related  software  by  suppliers of  other  financial  
services;  
 
(p)   
advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on  
al   the  activities listed  in  sub-paragraphs (e)  through  (o),  
including credit reference and analysis, investment and portfolio  
research  and  advice,  advice  on  acquisitions  and  on  corporate  
restructuring and strategy.  
 
 
 
 
11 - 11  
 
 
 
7.  
 
 
 
financial service supplier of a Party means a person of a Party that  
is engaged in the business of supplying a financial service within the territory  
of that Party;  
 
8.  
 
investment  means “investment” as defined in Article 9.1 (Definitions),  
except that, with respect to “loans” and “debt instruments” referred to in that  
Article:  
 
(a)  
a loan to or debt instrument issued by a financial institution is an  
investment  only  where  it  is treated  as  regulatory  capital  by  the  
Party in whose territory the financial institution is located; and  
 
(b)   
a  loan  granted  by  or  debt  instrument  owned  by  a  financial  
institution, other than a loan to or debt instrument of a financial  
institution referred to in sub-paragraph (a), is not an investment;  
 
For greater certainty, a loan granted by or debt instrument owned by a  
cross-border  financial  service  supplier,  other  than  a  loan  to  or  debt  
instrument issued by a financial institution, is an investment if such loan  
or debt instrument meets the criteria for investments set out in Article  
9.1 (Definitions).  
 
9.  
 
investor  of  a  Party  means a  Party  or  state  enterprise  thereof,  or  a  
person  of  that  Party,  that  attempts to  make,  is making,  or  has  made  an  
investment in the territory of the other Party;   
 
10.  
new financial service means, for purposes of Article 11.7, a financial  
service not supplied in the Party’s territory that is supplied within the territory  
of the other Party, and includes any new form of delivery of a financial service  
or the sale of a financial product that is not sold in the Party’s territory;  
 
11.  
public entity means:  
 
(a)  
a government, central bank or a monetary  authority of a Party,  
or  an  entity  owned  or  control ed  by  a  Party,  that  is principal y  
engaged in carrying out governmental functions or activities for  
governmental  purposes,  not  including  an  entity  principal y  
engaged in supplying financial services on commercial terms; or  
 
(b)  
a  private  entity  performing  functions normal y performed  by  a  
central  bank,  or  monetary  authority,  when  exercising  those  
functions; and  
 
12.  
self-regulatory  organisation  
means any  non-governmental  body,  
including any securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, other  
organization or association, that exercises regulatory or supervisory authority  
over financial service suppliers or financial institutions by statue or delegation  
from the government or relevant authorities. 
 
 
 
 
 
11 - 12  
 
 
 
ANNEX 11A  
AUTHORITIES RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
 
The authority of each Party responsible for financial services is:  
 
(a)  
for  Panama,  the  Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industries or  its  
successor  in  consultation  with  the  corresponding  competent  
authorities (Superintendencia  de  Bancos,  Superintendencia  de  
Seguros y Reaseguros and the Comision Nacional de Valores);  
and   
 
(b)  
for Singapore, the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11A - 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Panama:  
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 11.6  
APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 11.6  
 
Article 11.6 applies to the cross-border supply of or trade in financial services  
as defined  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  of  the  definition  of  "cross-border  trade  in  
financial services or cross-border supply of financial services" in Article 11.16  
with respect to the Parties' commitments set out in their respective Schedules  
to  the  General  Agreement  on  Trade  in  Services,  including  any  changes to  
their Schedules made after the entry into force of this Agreement pursuant to  
the Doha Development Agenda or any other negotiations under GATS.  
 
 
For Singapore:  
 
Article 11.6 applies to the cross-border supply of or trade in financial services  
as defined  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  of  the  definition  of  "cross-border  trade  in  
financial services or cross-border supply of financial services" in Article 11.16  
with respect to the Parties' commitments set out in their respective Schedules  
to  the  General  Agreement  on  Trade  in  Services,  including  any  changes to  
their Schedules made after the entry into force of this Agreement pursuant to  
the Doha Development Agenda or any other negotiations under GATS.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.6 - 1 
