 
1 
ANNEX A 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT 
PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 15.7.6 
OF CHAPTER 15 (DISPUTE SETTLEMENT) 
 
 
Section I – Preamble  
 
 
1. 
This Code is established to ensure the integrity and impartiality of 
panelists appointed pursuant to Article 15.7.6 of the Agreement. 
 
2. 
The disclosure obligations in this Code should not be interpreted such 
that the burden of such disclosure makes it impractical for qualified persons to 
serve as panelists. 
 
3. 
This Code does not determine whether or under what circumstances 
the Parties will disqualify a panelist from being appointed, or serving in an 
arbitral panel on the basis of disclosures made. 
 
 
Section II - Governing Principle 
 
4. 
Panelists shall be independent and impartial, shall avoid direct or 
indirect conflicts of interest and shall respect the confidentiality of panel 
proceedings so as to preserve its integrity and impartiality.  
 
5. 
This Code shall in no way modify the rights and obligations of the 
Parties under Chapter 15 (Dispute Settlement) nor the Model Rules of 
Procedure established by the Parties pursuant to Article 15.9.1. 
 
 
Section III – Observance of the Governing Principle and Self-Disclosure 
Requirements 
 
6. 
Each panelist shall disclose the existence or development of any 
interest, relationship or matter that the panelist could reasonably be expected 
to know and that is likely to affect, or give rise to justifiable doubts as to, that 
panelist’s independence or impartiality; and to take due care in the 
performance of their duties to fulfill these expectations, including through 
avoidance of any direct or indirect conflicts of interest in respect of the subject 
matter of the proceedings.  
 
7. 
Each panelist shall disclose any information that could reasonably be 
expected to be known to them at the time which, coming within the scope of 
Section II – Governing Principle, is likely to affect or give rise to justifiable 
doubts as to their independence or impartiality. These disclosures include the 
type of information described in the Illustrative List (as set out in Appendix 1 to 
this Code), if relevant. During a dispute, each panelist shall have a continuing 
 
2 
obligation to disclose any new information relevant to this rule at the earliest 
time they become aware of it.  
 
8. 
These disclosure requirements shall not extend to the identification of 
matters whose relevance to the issues to be considered in the panel 
proceedings would be insignificant. They shall take into account the need to 
respect the personal privacy of the panelists and shall not be so 
administratively burdensome as to make it impracticable for otherwise 
qualified persons to serve on the arbitral panel.  
 
9. 
Each panelist shall complete the form in Appendix 2 to disclose any 
such interest, relationship or matter described in rule 8 of this Code. This form 
shall, be forwarded to the Secretariat which, in turn, shall forward the same to 
the Parties and to the other panelists when the arbitral panel is established. 
 
10. 
Each panelist shall be independent and impartial, and shall maintain 
confidentiality at all times. In addition, every panelist shall avoid any 
appearance of impropriety or an apprehension of bias that may affect a 
panelist’s abilities to carry out his duties. 
 
11. 
Panelists shall consider only issues raised in, and necessary to fulfill 
their responsibilities within the panel proceedings and shall not delegate this 
responsibility to any other person. Panelists should not incur any obligation or 
accept any benefit that would in anyway interfere with, or which could give 
rise to, justifiable doubts as to the proper performance of that panelist’s 
duties. 
 
 
Section IV – Performance of Duties 
 
12. 
Every panelist shall perform a panelist’s duties thoroughly and 
expeditiously in a fair and diligent manner. To this end, a panelist shall not be 
influenced by self interest, outside pressure, political considerations or public 
clamour. 
 
13. 
A panelist’s position shall not be used to advance any personal or 
private interest. 
 
14. 
A panelist shall not use or disclose any confidential information 
acquired during the arbitral proceeding for personal gain or affect the interest 
of others. This obligation shall continue notwithstanding the presenting of the 
final report pursuant to Article 15.13 or determination pursuant to Article 15.16 
of the Agreement, as may be applicable. 
 
15. 
Every panelist shall take all reasonable precautions to ensure that any 
person engaged to assist them in their duties shall also comply with the 
provisions of this Code. 
 
 
 
 
3 
Section V - Definitions 
 
16. 
For the purposes of this Code: 
 
panelist means a member of an arbitral panel established in Chapter 15 
(Dispute Settlement); and 
 
proceedings means an arbitral proceeding in Chapter 15 (Dispute 
Settlement) and the Model Rules of Procedure established pursuant to Article 
15.9.1 (Rules of Procedure). 
 
 
4 
APPENDIX  1 
 
 
ILLUSTRATIVE LIST OF INFORMATION TO BE DISCLOSED 
 
 
This list contains examples of information of the type that a person called 
upon to serve in a arbitral panel should disclosed pursuant to the Code of 
Conduct established under Article 15.7.6 of Chapter 15 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
 
Each panelist, appointed pursuant to Article 15.7 (Composition of 
Arbitral Panels) has a continuing duty to disclose the information described in 
Section III of this Code which may include the following: 
 
(a) 
financial interests (eg. investments, loans, shares, interests, other 
debts); business interests (eg. directorship or other contractual 
interests); and property interests relevant to the dispute in question; 
 
(b) 
professional interests (eg. a past or present relationship with private 
clients or one of the Parties, or any interests the person may have 
in domestic or international proceedings, and their implications, 
where these involve issues similar to those addressed in the 
dispute in question); 
 
(c) 
other active interests (eg. active participation in public interest 
groups or other organizations which may have a declared agenda 
relevant to the dispute in question); 
 
(d) 
considered statements of personal opinion on issues relevant to the 
dispute in question (eg. publications, public statements); 
 
(e) 
employment or family interests (eg. the possibility of any indirect 
advantage or likelihood of pressure which could arise from their 
employer, business associates or immediate family members). 
 
 
5 
APPENDIX  2  
 
 
DISCLOSURE FORM 
 
 
Proceeding (Title): [File number as designated by the Secretariat] 
 
 
 
I have read Chapter 15 (Dispute Settlement) of the Free Trade 
Agreement (“the Agreement”) between Panama and Singapore, the Model 
Rules of Procedure established pursuant to Article 15.9.1  of the Agreement 
and the Code of Conduct established pursuant to Article 15.7.6 of the 
Agreement and affirm that I understand my obligations therein.  
 
 
I hereby disclose all my interests, relationships and matters of the kind 
referred to in rule 7 of the Code in the statement attach hereto. 
 
I understand my continuing duty, while participating in the dispute 
settlement mechanism, and until such time as the arbitral panel presents its 
final report pursuant to Article 15.13 or determination pursuant to Article 15.16 
of the Agreement, as may be applicable, to disclose herewith and in future, 
any information likely to affect my independence or impartiality, or which could 
give rise to justifiable doubts as to the integrity and impartiality of the dispute 
settlement mechanism; and to respect my obligations regarding the 
confidentiality of dispute settlement proceedings.  
 
 
 
 
 
Signed: _________  
 
 
 
Dated: ___________ 
 
 
 
 
 
