 
 
 
CHAPTER 7  
COMPETITION POLICY  
 
 
Article 7.1:  Anti-competitive Business Conduct  
   
1.   Each  Party  shal   endeavour  to  adopt  or  maintain  competition  laws to  
proscribe  anti-competitive  business conduct,  with  the  objective  of  promoting  
economic efficiency and consumer welfare, and shal  take appropriate action  
with respect to such conduct.  The Parties recognize that undertaking these  
obligations wil   enhance  the  fulfilment  of  the  objectives of  this Agreement.   
Anti-competitive business conduct includes, but is not limited to:  
 
(a)   anti-competitive horizontal arrangements between competitors;   
 
(b)   misuse  of  market  power,  including  predatory  pricing  by 
businesses;   
 
(c)   anti-competitive vertical arrangements between businesses; and  
 
(d)   anti-competitive mergers and acquisitions.  
   
2.   Each Party shal  maintain an authority responsible for the enforcement  
of  its national  competition  laws.  The  enforcement  policy  of  each  Party’s 
national  competition  authority  is not  to  discriminate  on  the  basis of  the  
nationality of the subjects of their proceedings. Each Party shal  ensure that:  
 
(a)   before  it  imposes a  sanction  or  remedy  against  any  person for  
violating its competition law, it affords the person the opportunity  
to be heard and to present evidence, within a reasonable time;  
and  
 
(b)   a  domestic court  or  tribunal,  at  the  person’s request,  reviews  
any such sanction or remedy.  
   
3.   Nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   be  construed  to  infringe  each  Party’s 
autonomy in developing its competition policies or in deciding how to enforce  
its competition laws.  
   
4.   The  Parties shal   ensure  the  application  of  the  principles of  non- 
discrimination,  transparency  and  due  process to  the  competition  measures  
adopted or maintained according to paragraph 1 and to each Party’s laws and  
their enforcement.  
 
 
Article 7.2:  Confidentiality  
   
1.   Nothing in this Chapter shal  require the provision of information that is:  
 
 
 
 
7 - 1     
   
   
 
(a)   classified as confidential by a Party or its competition authority;  
 
  or  
   
 
(b)    contrary to a Party’s laws or policies.  
 
   
2.   Each  Party  shal ,  subject  to  its laws or  policies,  maintain  the  
confidentiality  of  any  information  communicated  to  it  in  confidence  by  the  
other Party and oppose any application for disclosure of such information. Any 
information  communicated  shal   only  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  the  
enforcement action for which it was communicated.  
 
 
Article 7.3: Cooperation  
 
The  Parties agree  to  cooperate  in  the  area  of  competition  law  and  policy  
development  by  establishing  consultation  mechanisms and  exchanging  
information.  The  Parties recognise  the  importance  of  cooperation  and  
coordination  in  order  to  further  effective  competition  law  and  policy  
development in the free trade area, in a manner consistent with their domestic  
laws, by establishing consultation mechanisms and exchanging information.    
 
 
Article 7.4: Transparency and Information Requests  
 
1.    The  Parties  recognize  the  value  of  transparency  in  government  
competition policies.  
 
2.    On request, each Party shal  make available to the other Party, public 
information concerning its competition law enforcement activities.  
 
3.    On request, each Party shal  make available to the other Party public  
information  concerning  exemptions provided  under  its competition  laws.  
Requests shal   specify  the  particular  goods and  markets of  interest  and  
include  an  indication  whether  or  not  the  exemption  restricts  trade  or  
investment between the Parties.  
 
 
Article 7.5: Consultations  
 
To  foster  understanding  between  the  Parties,  or  to  address specific matters  
that  arise  under  this Chapter,  a  Party  shal ,  on  request  of  the  other  Party,  
enter  into  consultations.  In  its request,  the  requesting  Party  shal   indicate,  if  
relevant, how the matter affects trade or investment between the Parties. The  
requested  Party  shal   accord  ful   and  sympathetic consideration  to  the  
concerns of the other Party.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 - 2   
 
 
Article 7.6: Disputes  
 
No  Party  may  have  recourse  to  the  provisions for  Dispute  Settlement  under  
Chapter 15 (Dispute  Settlement) of this Agreement for any matter related to  
this Chapter.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 - 3  