 
 
 
CHAPTER 6  
TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
 
 
Article 6.1: Objective and Scope 
 
1.  
 
The objective of this Chapter is to provide a framework to address the  
impact of technical barriers to trade between the Parties.  
 
2.  
 
For  this purpose,  technical  barriers to  trade  shal   cover  al   standards,  
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures that may directly  
or  indirectly  affect  trade  in  goods and  /  or  assessments of manufacturers or  
manufacturing processes of goods traded between the Parties.  
 
3.  Standards,  technical  regulations and  conformity  assessment  procedures  
shal   have  the  meanings assigned  to  those  terms in  Annex  1  of  the  WTO  
Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (“TBT Agreement”).  
 
 
Article 6.2: Coverage  
 
1.  
 
The  Parties affirm  their  existing  rights and  obligations under  the  TBT  
Agreement.  
 
2.  
 
The  Parties additional y  affirm  their  commitment  to  the  modalities  
whichever is most expedient in the framework as set out in this Chapter so as  
to  facilitate  and  increase  trade  in  goods and  /  or  assessments of  
manufacturers or  manufacturing  processes  of  goods traded  between  the  
Parties.   
 
3.  
 
This Chapter does not apply to sanitary and phytosanitary measures as  
defined in the WTO Agreement on Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures  which  are  covered  by  Chapter  5  (Sanitary and  Phytosanitary  
Measures) of this Agreement.  
 
4.  
 
This Chapter applies to al  goods and/or assessments of manufacturers 
or manufacturing processes of goods traded between the Parties, regardless  
of the origin of those goods, unless otherwise specified by a Party under the  
modalities in this framework.  
 
 
Article 6.3: International Standards  
 
1.  
 
Consistent with Article 2.4 of the TBT Agreement, each Party shal  use,  
to  the  maximum  extent  possible,  relevant  international  standards as a  basis 
for its technical regulations.  
 
2.  
 
In  determining  whether  an  international  standard,  guide,  or  
recommendation within the meaning of Articles 2, 5 and Annex 3 of the TBT  
Agreement  exists,  each  Party  shal   apply  the  principles set  out  in  Decisions  
 
 
6 - 1  
 
 
 
and  Recommendations adopted  by the  Committee  since  1  January 1995,  
G/TBT/1/Rev.8,  23  May  2002,  Section  IX  (Decision  of  the  Committee  on  
Principles for  the  Development  of  International  Standards,  Guides and  
Recommendations  with  relation  to  Articles 2,  5  and  Annex 3  of  the  TBT  
Agreement) issued by the WTO Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade.  
 
 
Article 6.4: Trade Facilitation  
 
1.  
 
The  Parties shal   cooperate  and  jointly  identify  work in  the  field  of  
standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment procedures, with  
a  view  to  facilitating  market  access.    In  particular,  the  Parties shal   seek to  
identify  initiatives that  are  appropriate  for  the  particular  issues or  sectors.  
Such  initiatives may  include  cooperation  on  regulatory  issues,  such  as  
unilateral recognition or harmonisation of technical regulations and standards,  
alignment  to  international  standards,  reliance  on  a  supplier’s declaration  of  
conformity, and use of accreditations to qualify conformity assessment bodies.  
 
2.  
 
At  the  request  of  the  other  Party,  each  Party  shal   encourage  non- 
governmental  bodies in  its territory  to  cooperate  with  the  non-governmental  
bodies in the territory of the other Party with respect to particular standards or  
conformity assessment procedures.  
 
 
Article 6.5: Conformity Assessment Procedures  
 
1.  
 
The  Parties recognise  that  a  broad  range  of  mechanisms exists to  
facilitate the acceptance of conformity assessment results, including:  
 
(a)  
the  importing  Party’s  reliance  on  a  supplier’s declaration  of  
conformity;  
 
(b)  
voluntary arrangements between conformity assessment bodies  
from each Party’s territory;  
 
(c)  
agreements on mutual acceptance of the results or certification  
of  conformity  assessment  procedures with  respect  to  specified  
regulations conducted  by  bodies  located  in  the  territory  of  the  
other Party;  
 
(d)  
accreditation  procedures for  qualifying  conformity  assessment  
bodies;  
 
(e)  
government designation of conformity assessment bodies; and  
 
(f)  
 
recognition by one Party of the results of conformity assessment  
procedures performed  in  the  other  Party’s territory on  a  
unilateral basis for a sector nominated by that Party.  
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 2  
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
To this end, the Parties shal  intensify their exchange of information on  
the  variety  of  mechanisms to  facilitate  the  acceptance  of  conformity  
assessment results or certification.  
 
3.  
 
Where a Party does not accept the results of a conformity assessment  
procedure performed in the territory of the other Party, it shal , on request of  
the other Party, explain its reasons.   
 
4.  
 
Each  Party  shal   accredit,  approve,  license,  or  otherwise  recognise  
conformity assessment bodies in the territory of the other Party on terms no  
less favourable than those it accords to conformity assessment bodies in its  
territory.  If  a  Party  accredits,  approves,  licenses,  or  otherwise  recognises a  
body assessing conformity with a particular technical regulation or standard in  
its territory and it refuses to accredit, approve, license, or otherwise recognise  
a body assessing conformity with that technical regulation or standard in the  
territory  of  the  other  Party,  it  shal ,  on  request,  explain  the  reasons for  its 
refusal.  
 
5.  
 
Where a Party declines a request from the other Party to engage in or  
conclude  negotiations  to  reach  agreement  on  facilitating  recognition  in  its  
territory  of  the  results  of  conformity  assessment  procedures conducted  by 
bodies in  the  territory  of  the  other  Party,  it  shal ,  on  request,  explain  its 
reasons. The Parties may agree to further engagement, including through the  
possible establishment of an  ad hoc working group, as provided for in Article  
17.1 (Administrative Commission of the Agreement)  
 
 
Article 6.6: Equivalence of Standards and Technical Regulations  
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   give  favourable  consideration  to  accepting  as 
equivalent the standards and technical regulations of the other Party, even if  
they differ from its own standards and technical regulations, provided that the  
said standards and technical regulations produce the outcomes equivalent to  
those  produced  by  its own  standards and  technical  regulations,  with  both  
meeting the legitimate objective or achieve the same level of protection.  
 
2.  
 
Where a Party does not accept a standard and technical regulation of  
the other Party as equivalent to its own standard and technical regulation, it  
shal , at the request of the other Party, explain the reasons for not accepting  
the  said  standard  and  regulation  as equivalent.  The  Parties may  agree  to  
further  engagement  on  accepting  equivalence  of  particular  standard  and  
technical  regulations,  including  through  the  possible  establishment  of  an  ad  
hoc working group, as provided for in Article 17.1 (Administrative Commission  
of the Agreement).  
 
3.  
 
No  Party  may  have  recourse  to the provisions for  Dispute  Settlement  
under  Chapter  15  (Dispute  Settlement)  of  this Agreement  for  any  matter  
related to this Chapter.   
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 3  
 
 
 
 
 
Article 6.7: Information Exchange  
 
Each Party shal  respond expeditiously to any enquiry from the other Party on  
standards, technical regulations or conformity assessment procedures relating  
to  any  good  and  /  or  assessments of  manufacturers or  manufacturing  
processes of  goods  traded  between  the  Parties.  Any  information  or  
explanation that is provided shal  be given in print or electronical y.  
 
 
Article 6.8: Confidentiality  
 
1.  
 
Nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   be  construed  to  require  either  Party  to  
furnish  or  al ow  access to  information  the  disclosure  of  which  it  considers  
would:  
 
(a)  
be contrary to its essential security interests;  
 
(b)  
be contrary to the public interest as determined by its domestic 
laws, regulations and administrative provisions;  
 
(c)  
be  contrary  to  any  of  its domestic laws,  regulations and  
administrative  provisions including  but  not  limited  to  those  
protecting personal privacy or the financial affairs and accounts  
of individual customers of financial institutions;  
 
(d)  
impede law enforcement; or   
 
(e)  
prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests of  particular  public or  
private enterprises.  
 
2.  
 
In  pursuance  to  Articles 6.5,  6.6,  6.7  and  6.9,  a  Party  shal ,  in  
accordance  with  its applicable  laws,  protect  the  confidentiality  of  any  
proprietary information disclosed to it. 
 
 
Article 6.9: Coordinators  
 
1.  
 
To  facilitate  the  implementation  of  this Chapter  and  cooperation  
between the Parties, each Party shal  designate a Coordinator, who shal  be  
responsible for coordinating with interested persons in the Party’s territory and  
communicating with the other Party’s Coordinator in al  matters pertaining to  
this Chapter. The Coordinators’ functions shal  include:  
 
(a)  
monitoring  the  implementation  and  administration  of  this  
Chapter;  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 4  
 
 
 
(b)  
promptly addressing any issue that a Party raises related to the  
development,  adoption,  application,  or  enforcement  of  
standards,  technical  regulations  or  conformity  assessment  
procedures;  
 
(c)  
enhancing cooperation in the development and improvement of  
standards,  technical  regulations,  and  conformity  assessment  
procedures;  
 
(d)  
exchanging information on standards, technical regulations, and  
conformity  assessment  procedures,  in  response  to  al   
reasonable requests for such information from a Party;  
 
(e)  
considering and facilitating any sector-specific proposal a Party  
makes  for  further  cooperation  among  governmental  and  non- 
governmental conformity assessment bodies;  
 
(f)  
 
facilitating  the  consideration  of  a  request  by  a  Party  for  the  
recognition of the results of conformity assessment procedures,  
including  a  request  for  the  negotiation  of  an  agreement,  in  a  
sector nominated by that Party;  
 
(g)  
facilitating  cooperation  in  the  areas of  specific technical  
regulations by referring enquiries from a Party to the appropriate  
regulatory authorities;  
 
(h)  
promptly  consulting  on  any  matter  arising  under  this Chapter  
upon request by a Party; and   
 
(i)  
 
reviewing  this Chapter  in  light  of  any  developments under  the  
TBT  Agreement,  and  developing  recommendations 
for  
amendments to this Chapter in light of those developments.  
 
3.  
 
The  Coordinators shal   normal y  carry  out  their  functions through  
agreed  communication  channels such  as  telephone,  facsimile,  emails,  
whichever is most expedient in the discharge of their functions.  
 
 
Article 6.10: Final Provisions  
 
1.  
 
Nothing in this Chapter shal  limit the authority of a Party to determine  
the  level  of  protection  it  considers necessary  for  the  protection  of,  inter  alia, 
human health or safety, animal or plant life or health or the environment.  In  
pursuance  of  this,  each  Party  retains al   authority  to  interpret  its laws,  
regulations and administrative provisions.  
 
2.  
 
For the purposes of Article 6.9, the Coordinator for:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 5  
 
 
 
(a)  
Panama shal  be:  
 
Ministry of Trade and Industries       
Edison Plaza, Ave, Ricardo J. Alfaro, El Paical, 2nd Floor  
Panama, Republic of Panama  
Tel: (507) 360-0690  
Fax: (507) 360-0691  
Email: admtratados@mici.gob.pa 
 
(b)  
Singapore shal  be:   
 
Ministry of Trade and Industry,  
Trade Division,  
100 High Street # 09-01, The Treasury,  
Singapore 179434, Republic of Singapore  
Tel: (65) 6225 9911  
Fax: (65) 6332 7260  
Email: mti_fta@mti.gov.sg 
 
 
or their successors or designated contact points.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 6  
