 
 
 
CHAPTER 2  
TRADE IN GOODS  
 
 
Article 2.1: Scope and Coverage  
 
This Chapter applies to trade in goods of a Party, unless otherwise provided.  
 
 
Article 2.2:  National Treatment  
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   accord  national  treatment  to  the  goods of  the  other  
Party  in  accordance  with  Article  III  of  GATT  1994,  including  its interpretative  
notes.  
 
2.  
 
To  this end,  Article  III  of  GATT  1994  and  its interpretative  notes are  
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
 
Article 2.3: Customs Duties Elimination Schedule 
 
1.  
 
Except  as otherwise  provided  in  this Agreement,  each  Party  shal   
progressively eliminate its customs duties on originating goods in accordance  
with Annex 2.3 (Customs Duties Elimination Schedule).  
 
2.  
 
During  the  customs duties elimination  process,  the  Parties agree  to  
apply  to  originating  goods traded  between  them,  the  lesser  of  the  customs  
duties resulting from a comparison between the rate established in accordance  
with  Annex  2.3  (Customs Duties Elimination  Schedule)  and  the  existing  rate  
pursuant to Article II of GATT 1994.  
 
3.  
 
Each  Party  shal   not  increase  an  existing  customs duty  or  introduce  a  
new customs duty on the importation of originating goods from the territory of  
the other Party.  
 
4.  
 
Upon  request  by  any  Party,  the  Parties shal   consult  to  consider  
accelerating  the  elimination  of  customs duties as set  out  in  Annex  2.3  
(Customs Duties Elimination  Schedule)  or  incorporating  into  one  Party’s 
schedule,  goods that  are  not  subject  to  the  elimination  schedule.  Further  
commitments  between  the  Parties to  accelerate  the elimination of a  customs  
duty on a good or to include a good in Annex 2.3 (Customs Duties Elimination  
Schedule)  shal   supercede  any  duty  rate  or  staging  category  determined  
pursuant to their Schedules. These commitments shal  enter into force on such  
dates as may  be  agreed  between  the  Parties after  they  have  exchanged  
notification  certifying  that  they  have  completed  their  necessary  internal  legal  
procedures.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 - 1  
 
 
 
Article 2.4: Export Duties  
 
A  Party  shal   not  adopt  or  maintain  any  duty,  tax  or  other  charge  on  the  
exportation of goods to the territory of the other Party, unless such duty, tax or  
charge is adopted or maintained on any such good when destined for domestic  
consumption.  
 
 
Article 2.5: Customs Valuation  
 
The Parties shal  determine the customs value of goods traded between them  
in  accordance  with  the  provisions of  Article  VII  of  GATT  1994  and  the WTO  
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of GATT 1994.   
 
 
Article 2.6: Customs Processing Fees  
 
After  two  years of  the  entry  into  force  of  this Agreement,  neither  Party  shal   
apply  an  existing  customs processing  fee,  nor  shal   the  Parties adopt  new  
customs processing  fees on  originating  goods from  the  territory  of  the  other  
Party.  
 
 
Article 2.7: Temporary Admission of Goods 
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   grant  duty-free  temporary  admission for  the fol owing  
goods, imported by or for the use of a resident of the other Party:   
 
(a)  
professional equipment, including software and broadcasting and  
cinematographic equipment,  necessary  for  carrying  out  the  
business  activity,  trade  or  profession  of  a  business person  who  
qualifies for temporary entry pursuant to the laws of the importing  
country; and  
 
(b)  
goods intended for display or demonstration at exhibitions, fairs  
or  similar  events,  including  commercial  samples for  the  
solicitation of orders, and advertising firms.  
 
2.  
 
A Party shal  not condition the duty-free temporary admission of a good  
referred to in paragraph 1, other than to require that such good:   
 
(a)  
be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a resident  
of the other Party in the exercise of the business activity, trade or  
profession of that person;   
 
(b)  
not be sold, leased or consumed while in its territory;  
 
(c)  
be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the  
charges that  would  otherwise  be  owed  on  entry  or  final  
importation releasable upon exportation of the good;  
 
 
2 - 2  
 
 
 
 
(d)  
be capable of identification when exported;  
 
(e)  
be  exported  within  3  months or  such  other  period  of  time  as  is 
reasonably related to the purpose of the temporary admission;  
 
(f)  
 
be  imported  in  no  greater  quantity  than  is reasonable  for  their  
intended use; and  
 
 
 
3.  
 
(g)  
be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws.  
 
If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 2 has not been  
fulfil ed, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would  
normal y  be  owed  on  entry  or  final  importation  of  the  good,  and    any  other  
charges or penalties provided for under its domestic law.  
 
4.  
 
Each  Party  shal ,  at  the  request  of  the  person  concerned  and  for  
reasons deemed  valid  by  the  Customs authorities,  extend  the  time  limit  for  
temporary admission beyond the period initial y fixed.  
 
5.  
 
Each  Party  shal   permit  temporarily  admitted  goods to  be  exported  
through a customs port other than that through which they were imported.  
 
6.  
 
Each  Party  shal   relieve  the  importer  of  liability  for  failure  to  export  a  
temporarily admitted good under presentation of satisfactory proof to Customs  
authorities that  the  good  has been  destroyed  within  the  original  time  limit for  
temporary  admission  or  any  lawful  extension.  Prior  approval  wil   have  to  be  
sought  from  the  Customs authorities of  the  importing  Party  before  the  good  
can be destroyed.  
 
 
 
Article 2.8: Re-Entry of Repaired or Altered Goods 
 
1.  
 
A  Party  shal   not  apply a  customs duty  to  a  good,  regardless of  its 
origin, that re-enters its territory after that good has been exported temporarily  
from  its  territory  to  the  territory  of  the  other  Party  for  repair  or  alteration,  
regardless of  whether  such  repair  or  alteration  could  be  performed  in  its 
territory.  
 
2.  
 
A  Party  shal   not  apply a  customs duty  to  a  good,  regardless of  its 
origin,  imported  temporarily  from  the  territory  of  the  other  Party  for  repair  or  
alteration.   
 
3.  
 
For the purposes of this Article:   
 
(a)  
the  repair  or  alterations shal   not  destroy  the  essential  
characteristics of a good or change it into a different commercial  
item;  
 
 
 
 
2 - 3  
 
 
 
(b)  
operations carried  out  to  transform  an  unfinished  good  into  a  
finished good shal  not be considered repairs or alterations; and  
 
(c)  
parts or  pieces of  the  goods may  be  subject  to  repairs or  
alterations.  
 
 
Article 2.9: Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  
 
Neither  Party  shal   adopt  or  maintain  any  non-tariff  measures on  the  
importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation of any good  
destined for the territory of the other Party, except in accordance with its WTO  
rights and  obligations,  or  in  accordance  with  other  provisions of  this 
Agreement.  
 
2.  
 
Each  Party  shal   ensure  the  transparency  of  its non-tariff  measures  
permitted  under  paragraph  1  and  that  they  are  not  prepared,  adopted  or  
applied with a view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to  
trade between the Parties.  
 
 
Article 2.10: Subsidies and Countervailing Measures 
 
1.  
 
The  Parties agree  to  prohibit  export  subsidies on  al   goods,  including  
agriculture goods.  
 
2.  
 
Notwithstanding  paragraph  1,  the  Parties  reaffirm  their  commitment  to  
abide  by  the  provisions of  Article  VI  and  XVI  of  the  GATT  1994,  the  WTO  
Agreement  on  Subsidies and  Countervailing  Measures,  and  the  
WTO  
Agreement on Agriculture.  
 
 
Article 2.11: Anti-Dumping 
 
1.  
 
With  respect  to  the  application  of  anti-dumping  measures,  the  Parties 
reaffirm their commitment to the provisions of the Anti-Dumping Agreement.  
 
2.  
 
Notification procedures shal  be as fol ows:  
 
(a)  
immediately fol owing the acceptance of a properly documented  
application  from  an  industry  in  one  Party  for  the  initiation  of  an  
anti-dumping  investigation  in  respect  of  goods from  the  other  
Party,  the  Party  that  has  accepted  the  properly  documented  
application  shal   immediately  inform  the  other  Party  of  such  
acceptance; and  
 
(b)  
where a Party considers that in accordance with Article 5 of the  
Anti-Dumping Agreement there is sufficient evidence to justify the  
initiation  of  an  anti-dumping  investigation,  it  shal   give  written  
notice  to  the  other  Party  in  accordance  with  Article  12.1  of  that  
 
 
2 - 4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
 
Agreement, and observe the requirements of Article 17.2 of that  
Agreement concerning consultations;  
 
At  the  first  session  of  the  Administrative  Commission  convened  
pursuant to Article 17.1.3 (Administrative  Commission  of  the  Agreement), the  
Parties shal ,  in  the  course  of  reviewing  the  general  implementation  and  
functioning  of  this Agreement,  consider  and  review  this Article,  and  shal   
include  a  consideration  of  any  recommendation  by  the  WTO  Committee  on  
Anti-Dumping Practices.  
 
 
Article 2.12: Bilateral Safeguard Measures  
 
1.  
 
If as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty under this  
Agreement,  an  originating  good  of  the  one  Party  is being  imported  into  the  
territory  of  the  other  Party  in  such  increased  quantities,  in  absolute  terms or  
relative to domestic production, and under such conditions that the imports of  
such originating good from the exporting Party constitute a substantial cause  
of serious injury to a domestic industry producing a like or directly competitive  
good of the importing Party, such Party may:  
 
(a)  
suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty on the  
good provided for under this Agreement; or  
 
(b)  
increase  the  rate of  customs duty  on  the  good  to  a  level  not  to  
exceed the lesser of:  
 
(i)   
the MFN applied rate of duty on the good in effect at the  
time the action is taken, or  
 
(i )  
the MFN applied rate of duty on the good in effect on the  
day immediately preceding the date of entry  into force of  
this Agreement.  
 
2.  
 
The  fol owing  conditions and  limitations shal   apply  with  regard  to  an  
investigation or a measure described in paragraph 1:  
 
(a)  
a Party shal  notify the other Party in writing upon initiation of an  
investigation  described  in  paragraph  2(c)  and  shal   consult  with  
the other Party as far in advance of taking any such measure as  
practicable, with a view to reviewing the information arising from  
the  investigation,  exchanging  views  on  the  measure  and  
reaching an agreement on compensation as set out in paragraph  
4;  
 
(b)  
any safeguard measure shal  be taken no later than 1 year after  
the date of the initiation of the investigation;  
 
(c)  
a  Party  shal   take  a  measure  only  fol owing  an  investigation  by 
that  Party’s competent  authorities in  accordance  with  Articles 3  
 
 
2 - 5  
 
 
 
and  4.2(c)  of  the  Agreement  on  Safeguards;  and  to  this end,  
Articles 3  and  4.2(c)  of  the  
Agreement  on  Safeguards  are  
incorporated  into  and  made  a  part  of  this  Agreement,  mutatis  
mutandis;  
 
(d)  
in the investigation described in sub-paragraph (c), a Party shal   
comply with the requirements of Article 4.2(a) of the  Agreement  
on Safeguards; and to this end, Article 4.2(a) is incorporated into  
and made a part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis;  
 
(e)  
no measure may be maintained against a good:  
 
(i)  
 
except  to  the  extent  and  for  such  time  as may  be  
necessary  to  prevent  or  remedy  serious injury  and  to  
facilitate adjustment; and  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(f)  
 
(i )  
for  a  period  exceeding  one  year,  except  in  the  case  
provided for under paragraph 3; or  
 
(i i)  
beyond the expiration of the transition period, except with  
the  consent  of  the  Party  against  whose  originating  good  
the measure is taken;  
 
no  measure  under  this Article  may  be  applied  more  than  once  
against the same good;  
 
(g)  
where the expected duration of the measure is over one year, the  
importing Party shal  progressively liberalize it at regular intervals  
during the period of application;  
 
(h)  
the transition period means two years beginning from the date of  
entry  into  force  of  this Agreement,  except  where  the  tariff  
elimination for the good against which the action is taken occurs  
over a longer period of time, in which case, the transition period  
shal  be the period of staged tariff elimination for that good; and  
 
(i)  
 
on the termination of a safeguard measure, the rate of duty shal   
immediately be the rate which would have been in effect but for  
the measure.  
 
3.  
 
If the competent authorities of a Party determine, in conformity with the  
procedures set out in paragraph 2, that a safeguard measure continues to be  
necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment and  
that there is evidence that the industry is adjusting, the Party may extend the  
application of the safeguard measure for an additional two years.  
 
4.  
 
The  Party    proposing  to  take  or  taking  a  measure  described  in  
paragraph 1 shal   endeavour  to  provide  to  the  other  Party  mutual y  agreed  
trade liberalizing compensation in the form of concessions having substantial y 
equivalent  trade  effects or  equivalent  to  the  value  of  the  additional  duties  
 
 
2 - 6  
 
 
 
expected  to  result  from  the  measure.  If  the  Parties are  unable  to  agree  on  
compensation within 30 days from the date the Party announces a decision to  
take  the  measure,  the  Party  against  whose  good  the  measure  is taken  may  
take  action  having  trade  effects substantial y  equivalent  to  the  measure  
described  in  paragraph  1.  The  Party  taking  the  action  shal   apply  the  action  
only for the minimum period necessary to achieve the substantial y equivalent  
effects, and in any event, only while the measure under paragraph 1 is being  
applied.  
 
5.  
 
For the purposes of this Article:  
 
(a)  
domestic industry means the producers as a whole of the like or  
directly  competitive  product  operating  in  the  territory  of  a  Party,  
or those whose col ective output of the like or directly competitive  
product  constitutes a  major  proportion  of  the  total  domestic 
production of that product;  
 
(b)  
serious injury  means  a  significant  overal   impairment  in  the  
position of a domestic industry, except that where an originating  
good  is being  imported  into  the  territory  of  a  Party  in  increased  
quantities relative  to  domestic production,  “serious injury”  shal   
be found to exist only when the difference between the volume of  
domestic production  and  the  volume  of  imports of  such  
originating good decreases over three consecutive years; and  
 
(c)  
substantial cause means a cause which is important and not less  
than any other cause.  
 
 
Article 2.13: Global Safeguard Measures  
 
Each Party  retains its rights and obligations under  Article  XIX  of  GATT 1994  
and  the  Agreement  on  Safeguards.  This  Agreement  does  not  confer  any  
additional rights or obligations on the Parties with regard to global safeguard  
measures, except that a Party taking a global safeguard measure may exclude  
imports of  an originating  good  from  the other  Party  if  such  imports are  not a  
substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof.  
 
 
Article 2.14: Transparency  
 
Article  X  of  GATT  1994  is incorporated  into  and  shal   form  part  of  this  
Agreement.  
 
 
Article 2.15: Committee on Trade in Goods and Rules of Origin  
 
1.  
 
The Administrative Commission may establish an ad hoc Committee on  
Trade in Goods and Rules of Origin to perform the fol owing functions:  
 
 
 
 
2 - 7  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
(a)  
to  oversee  and  review  the  implementation  of  this Chapter  and  
Chapter  3  (Rules of  Origin),  and  to  ensure  that  the  benefits of  
trade  arising  from  these  Chapters accrue  to  both  Parties  
equitably; and  
 
(b)  
to  provide  advice  to  the  Parties on  matters  relating  to  Trade  in  
Goods and Rules of Origin, which may include identification and  
recommendation of measures to promote and facilitate improved  
market  access and  to  accelerate  the  tariff  elimination  and  
reduction process.  
 
Within  the  scope  of  this Chapter,  if  a  Party  concludes a  preferential  
agreement  with  a  non-Party  under  Article  XXIV  of  GATT 1994,  it shal ,  upon  
request  from  the  other  Party,  afford  adequate  opportunity  to  negotiate  any 
additional  benefits granted  within  the  Trade  in  Goods chapter  of  that  
preferential agreement. 
 
 
Article 2.16: Definitions  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
1.  
 
Anti-Dumping Agreement means the Agreement on Implementation of  
Article VI of GATT 1994, which is part of the WTO Agreement;  
 
2. 
 
customs  duties  means any  customs or  import  duty  and  a  charge  of  
any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any  
form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not  
include any:   
 
(a)  
charge  equivalent  to  an  internal  tax  imposed  consistently  with  
Article III:2 of GATT 1994 in respect of the like domestic good or  
in  respect  of  goods from  which  the  imported  good  has been  
manufactured or produced in whole or in part;  
 
(b)  
anti-dumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a  
Party’s domestic law; and  
 
(c)  
fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate  
with the cost of services rendered.  
 
3.  
 
global  safeguard  measure  means a  measure  applied  under  Article  
XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards;  
 
4.  
 
MFN means “most-favoured nation” treatment in accordance with Article  
I of GATT 1994; and  
 
5.  
 
Safeguards  Agreement  means the  Agreement  on  Safeguards,  which  
is part of the WTO Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
 
2 - 8  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
 
 
 
ANNEX 2.3  
CUSTOMS DUTIES ELIMINATION SCHEDULE  
 
 
 
FOR PANAMA  
 
Except  as otherwise  provided  for  in  a  Party’s schedule  of  customs  
duties elimination, the fol owing staging categories apply to the elimination of  
customs duties  by  each  Party  pursuant  to  Article  2.3  (Customs Duties 
Elimination Schedule):  
 
(a)  
customs duties on  goods provided  for  in  the  items in  staging  
category  A  shal   be  eliminated  entirely  and  such  goods wil   be  
duty-free on the date this Agreement enters into force;  
 
(b)  
customs duties on  goods provided  for  in  the  items in  staging  
category  B  shal   be  eliminated  from  base  rates in  five  equal  
annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into  
force, and such goods shal  be duty-free, effective January 1 of  
year five;  
 
(c)  
customs duties on  goods provided  for  in  the  items in  staging  
category  C  shal   be  eliminated  from  base  rates in  ten  equal  
annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into  
force, and such goods shal  be duty-free, effective January 1 of  
year ten;  
 
(d)  
customs duties on  goods provided  for  in  the  items in  staging  
category D shal  remain at base rates for years one through ten;  
thereafter, such goods shal  be duty-free, effective January 1 of  
year eleven; and  
 
(e)  
customs duties on  goods provided  for  in  the  items in  staging  
category E shal  remain at base rates.  
 
2.  
 
Customs duties not  higher  than  those  effective  April  2005  shal   be  
approved  as a  base  rate  when  applying  the  provisions of  this Agreement.  
After the entry into force of this Agreement, if a Party were to lower customs 
duties below  the  approved  base  rate,  the  new  customs duties shal   replace  
the  approved  base  rate  as the  new  base  rate.  Whereas,  if  a  Party  were  to  
raise  customs duties above  the  existing  base  rate,  they  shal   be  no  higher  
than the approved base rate.    
 
3.  
 
For the purpose of the elimination of customs duties in accordance with  
this note, interim staged rates shal  be rounded down, at least to the nearest  
tenth  of  a  percentage  point  or,  if  the  rate  of  duty  is expressed  in  monetary  
units, at least to the nearest 0.001 of the official monetary unit of the Party.  
 
4.  
 
For the purposes of this Annex, year one means 1 July 2006.                
 
 
 
2.3 - 1 
 
 
 
FOR SINGAPORE  
 
 
Pursuant  to  Article  2.3  (Customs Duties Elimination  Schedule),  Singapore  
shal   eliminate  customs duties  on  al   originating  goods of  Panama  as of  the  
date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 - 2 
