 
 
 
CHAPTER 3  
RULES OF ORIGIN  
 
 
Section A: Origin Determination  
 
 
Article 3.1: Originating Goods  
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, goods shal  be deemed originating and  
eligible  for  preferential  treatment  if  they  conform  to  the  origin  requirement  
under any of the fol owing conditions:  
 
(a)   goods whol y  produced  or  obtained  in  the  territory  of  the  
exporting Party; or  
 
(b)   goods not  whol y  produced  or  obtained  in  the  territory  of  the  
exporting Party, provided that the said goods are eligible under  
Article 3.3; or  
 
(c)   as otherwise provided for under this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 3.2: Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods  
 
Goods whol y obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of  
the Parties means goods that are:  
 
(a)   mineral goods extracted or taken from that Party’s soil, waters,  
seabed or beneath the seabed;  
 
(b)   plants and  plant  products harvested  in  the  territory  of  that  
Party;  
 
(c)   live animals born and raised in the territory of that Party;  
 
(d)   goods obtained from animals referred to in sub-paragraph (c);  
 
(e)   goods obtained  from  hunting,  trapping,  fishing,  or  aquaculture  
conducted in the territory of that Party;  
   
(f)   goods (fish, shel fish, and other marine life) taken from outside  
its Economic Exclusive  Zone  as defined  in  the  United  Nations  
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  by  vessels registered,  
licensed or recorded with a Party, and entitled to fly its flag;  
 
(g)   goods produced  and/or  made  on  board  a  factory  ship  
exclusively  from  products referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  (f),  
provided  such  factory  ship  is  registered,  licensed  or  recorded  
with a Party, and entitled to fly its flag;  
 
 
3 - 1   
 
 
 
(h)   goods taken by a Party, or a person of a Party, from the seabed  
or  beneath  the  seabed  outside  its Economic Exclusive  Zone,  
provided  that  the  Party  has rights as defined  in  the  United  
Nations Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  to  exploit  such  
seabed;  
   
(i)   waste and scrap derived from:  
   
  (i)   production in the territory of that Party; or  
 
 
 
  (i )   used  goods,  col ected  in  the  territory  of  that  Party,  
  provided  such  goods are  fit  only  for  the  recovery  of  raw  
 
materials;   
 
   
(j)   recovered  goods derived  in  the  territory  of  a  Party  from  used  
goods; or  
 
(k)   a  good  produced  in  the  territory  of  that  Party exclusively  from  
goods referred  to  in  sub-paragraphs (a)  through  (j)  above,  or  
from their derivatives, at any stage of production.  
 
 
Article 3.3: Not Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods  
   
1.   For  the  purposes of  this Agreement,  a  good,  which  has undergone  
sufficient production in the territory of a Party, as provided under this Article,  
shal  be treated as an originating good of that Party.  
   
2.   A  good  is considered  to  have  undergone  sufficient  production  in  the  
territory of a Party if:  
 
(a)   it  satisfies the  product-specific rule  as set  out  in  Annex  3A  
(Product-Specific Rules); or  
 
(b)   where  there  is no  product-specific rule  set  out  in  Annex  3A  
(Product-Specific Rules), fulfils a qualifying value content of not  
less than 35% determined in accordance with Article 3.4.  
 
 
Article 3.4: Qualifying Value Content  
   
1.   For the purpose of Article 3.3, the fol owing formula for qualifying value  
content shal  be applied:  
 
 
F.O.B. – N.Q.M.  x 100%  ≥  35%  
F.O.B.  
 
where:  
 
 
3 - 2     
   
   
   
 
  (a)   F.O.B. is the Free-On-Board value, which refers to the value of a  
 
good payable by the buyer to the sel er, regardless of the mode  
 
of  shipment,  not  including  any  internal  excise  taxes,  reduced,  
 
  exempted, or repaid when the good is exported; and  
   
 
(b)   N.Q.M.  is the  non-qualifying  value  of  materials used  by  the  
 
  producer in the production of the good, calculated in accordance  
  with paragraph 2.  
 
 
2.   For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the  non-qualifying  value  of  materials 
pursuant to paragraph 2(b), the fol owing formula shal  be applied:  
 
N.Q.M. = T.V.M. – Q.V.M.  
 
where:  
 
(a)   T.V.M. is the total value of materials; and  
 
(b)   Q.V.M. is the qualifying value of materials, which is the value of  
the materials that can be attributed to one or both the Parties.  
   
3.   For the purpose of paragraph 2:  
   
  (a)   The qualifying value of materials shal  be:  
 
 
 
  (i)   the total value of the material if the material satisfies the  
  requirements of paragraph 3(b); or  
 
 
 
  (i )   the value of the material that can be attributed to one or  
  both  of  the  Parties if  the  material  does not  satisfy  the  
 
requirements of paragraph 3(b); and  
 
 
 
  (b)   For  the  purposes of  paragraph  3(a),  a  material  shal   be  
 
considered to have satisfied the requirements of this paragraph  
 
if:  
 
   
  (i)   the  content  of  the  value  of  the  material  that  can  be  
 
attributed  to  one  or  both  of  the  Parties is not  less than  
 
  35% of the total value of the material; and  
   
 
(i )   the  material  has undergone  its last  production  or  
 
operation in the territory of either Party.  
 
   
4.   The value of a material used in the production of a good in the territory  
of a Party shal  be the C.I.F. value and shal  be determined in accordance with  
the Agreement on Customs Valuation, or if this is not known and cannot be  
ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the material in the Party.   
 
 
 
 
 
3 - 3   
 
 
Article 3.5: De Minimis  
   
1.   A good shal  be considered to be an originating good if the value of al   
non-originating  materials used  in  the  production  of  that  good  that  do  not  
satisfy  the  requirement  of  change  in  tariff  classification  set  out  in  Annex  3A  
(Product-Specific Rules)  is not  more  than  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  F.O.B. 
value of the good.  
   
2.   For a good provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonised  
System,  the  percentage  indicated  in  the  paragraph  1  refers to  the  weight  of  
fibres or yarns with respect to the weight of the good being produced.  
   
3.   Paragraph  1  does not  apply  to  a  non-originating  material  used  in  the  
production  of  goods provided  for  in  the  Harmonised  System  headings of  
04.01,  04.02,  04.06,  09.01,  16.01,  16.02,  17.02,  20.09,  22.02,  23.01  and  in  
the  Harmonised  System  subheadings of  2101.11,  2101.12,  and  2103.20  
unless the  non-originating  material  is provided  for  in  a  different  subheading  
than the good for which origin is being determined under this Article.  
Article 3.6: Accumulation  
   
1.   Each Party shal  provide that originating goods or materials of a Party,  
incorporated into a good in the territory of the other Party, shal  be considered  
to originate in the territory of the other Party.  
   
2.   Each  Party  shal   provide  that  a  good  is originating  where  the  good  is 
produced in the territory of one or both Parties at different stages undertaken 
by one or more producers, provided that the good satisfies the requirements  
in Article 3.2 and al  other applicable requirements in this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 3.7: Accessories, Spare Parts, Tools  
 
Each Party shal  provide that accessories, spare parts, or tools delivered with  
a  good  that  form  part  of  the  good's standard  accessories,  spare  parts,  or  
tools, shal  be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good,  
and  shal   be  disregarded  in  determining  whether  al   the  non-originating  
materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in  
tariff classification, provided that:  
 
(a)   the accessories, spare parts, or tools are not invoiced separately  
from the good;  
 
(b)   the quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools  
are customary for the good; and  
 
(c)   if the good is subject to a qualifying value content, the value of  
the accessories, spare parts, or tools shal  be taken into account  
 
 
 
 
3 - 4   
 
 
as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be,  
in calculating the qualifying value content of the good.  
 
 
Article 3.8: Packaging Materials and Containers for Retail Sale  
 
Each Party shal  provide that packaging materials and containers in which a  
good  is packaged  for  retail  sale,  if  classified  with  the  good,  shal   be  
disregarded  in  determining  whether  al   the  non-originating  materials used  in  
the  production  of  the  good  undergo  the  applicable  change  in  tariff  
classification set out in Annex 3A (Product-Specific Rules) and, if the good is  
subject to a qualifying value content requirement, the value of such packaging  
materials and  containers shal   be  taken  into  account  as originating  or  non- 
originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the qualifying  value  
content of the good.  
 
 
Article 3.9:  Packing Materials and Containers for Shipment  
 
Each  Party  shal   provide  that  packing  materials and  containers in  which  a  
good  is packed  for  shipment  shal   be  disregarded  in  determining  whether  a  
good is originating.   
 
 
Article 3.10: Fungible Goods and Materials  
   
3.   Each  Party  shal   provide  that  the  determination  of  whether  fungible  
goods or  materials are  originating  goods shal   be  made  either  by  physical  
segregation  of  each  good  or  material  or  through  the  use  of  any  inventory 
management method, such as averaging, last-in, first-out, or first-in, first out,  
recognized  in  the  general y  accepted  accounting  principles of  the  Party  in  
which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by the Party in which  
the production is performed.  
   
4.   Each  Party  shal   provide  that  an  inventory  management  method  
selected  under  paragraph  1  for  particular  fungible  goods or  materials shal   
continue to be used for those fungible goods or materials throughout the fiscal  
year of the person that selected the inventory management method.  
 
 
Article 3.11: Indirect Materials  
   
1.   Each Party shal  provide that an indirect material shal  be treated as an  
originating material without regard to where it is produced and its value shal   
be the cost registered in the accounting records of the producer of the good.  
   
2.   For the purposes of this article, indirect material means a good used in  
the production, testing or inspection of a good but not physical y incorporated  
into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation  
of equipment associated with the production of a good, including:  
 
 
3 - 5   
 
 
 
(a)   fuel and energy;  
 
(b)   tools, dies, and molds;  
 
(c)   spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment  
and buildings;  
 
(d)   lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials  
used in production or used to operate equipment and buildings;  
 
(e)   gloves,  glasses,  footwear,  clothing,  safety  equipment  and  
supplies;  
   
(f)   equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting  
the goods;  
 
(g)   catalysts and solvents; and  
 
(h)   any  other  goods that  are  not  incorporated  into  the  good  but  
whose  use  in  the  production  of  the  good  can  reasonably  be  
demonstrated to be a part of that production.  
 
 
Section B: Consignment Criteria  
 
 
Article 3.12: Third Country Transportation  
 
A  good  shal   not  be  considered  to  be  an  originating  good  if  the  good  
undergoes subsequent  production  or  any  other  operation  outside  the  
territories of  the  Parties,  other  than  unloading,  reloading,  or  any  other  
operation necessary to preserve it in good condition or to transport the good  
to the territory of a Party.  
 
 
Section C: Consultation and Modifications  
 
 
Article 3.13: Committee on Trade in Goods and Rules of Origin 
   
1.   The  Administrative  Commission  may  establish  an  ad  hoc  Committee  
on Trade in Goods and Rules of Origin to perform the fol owing functions:  
 
(a)   to  oversee  and  review  the  implementation  of  this Chapter  and  
Chapter 2 (Trade  in  Goods), and to ensure that the benefits of  
trade  arising  from  these  Chapters accrue  to  both  parties  
equitably;  
 
 
 
 
3 - 6   
 
 
(b)   to provide advice to the Parties on matters relating to Trade in  
Goods and Rules of Origin, which may include identification and  
recommendation of measures to promote and facilitate improved  
market  access and  to  accelerate  the  tariff  elimination  and  
reduction process; and  
 
(c)   review the rules set out in this Chapter as and when necessary 
upon the request of either Party and make such modifications as  
may be agreed upon.  
 
 
Section D: Definitions  
 
 
Article 3.14:  Definitions  
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
   
1.   aquaculture  means the  farming  of  aquatic  organisms including  fish,  
mol uscs,  crustaceans,  other  aquatic  invertebrates and  aquatic plants,  from  
seedstock such  as eggs,  fry,  fingerlings and  larvae,  by  intervention  in  the  
rearing or growth processes to enhance production, such as regular stocking,  
feeding, protection from predators, etc.;  
   
2.   fungible  goods  or  materials  means goods or  materials that  are  
interchangeable  for  commercial  purposes  and  whose  properties are  
essential y identical;  
   
3.   generally  accepted  accounting  principles  means the  recognized  
consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with  
respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities,  
the  disclosure  of  information  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements.  
These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as  
wel  as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;  
   
4.   material means a good that is used in the production of another good;  
   
5.   non-originating  material  means a  material that  has not  satisfied  the  
requirements of this Chapter;  
   
6.   producer means a person who grows, raises, mines, harvests, fishes,  
traps, hunts, manufactures, processes, assembles or dis-assembles a good;  
   
7.   production  means growing,  raising,  mining,  harvesting,  fishing,  
trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling or dis-assembling a  
good;  
   
8.   recovered goods means materials in the form of individual parts that  
result from:    
 
 
 
 
3 - 7     
   
   
 
(a)   the  complete  disassembly  of  used  goods into  individual  parts;  
 
  and  
   
 
(b)   the  cleaning,  inspecting,  or  testing,  and  as necessary  for  
 
  improvement  to  sound  working  condition  one  or  more  of  the  
  fol owing  processes:  welding,  flame  spraying,  surface  
 
machining, knurling, plating, sleeving, and rewinding in order for  
 
  such  parts to  be  assembled  with  other  parts,  including  other  
  recovered parts in the production of a remanufactured good;  
 
 
9.   remanufactured  good  means an  industrial  good  of  Harmonised  
System Chapters 84, 85, 87, 90 and Harmonised System heading 94.02 that,  
assembled in the territory of a Party:  
 
(a)   is entirely or partial y comprised of recovered goods;  
 
(b)   has the same life expectancy and meets the same performance  
standards as a new good; and  
 
(c)   enjoys the same factory warranty as such a new good; and   
 
10.   used means used or consumed in the production of goods.  
 
 
Section E: Application and Interpretation  
 
 
Article 3.15: Application and Interpretation  
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
(a)   the  basis for  tariff  classification  is the  Harmonised  Commodity  
Description and Coding System;   
 
(b)   any cost and value referred to in this Chapter shal  be recorded  
and  maintained  in  accordance  with  the  general y  accepted  
accounting  principles applicable  in  the  territory  of  the  Party  in  
which the good is produced.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 - 8  