 
 
 
CHAPTER 8   
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
 
 
Article 8.1: General  
 
1.  
 
The  Parties agree  to  establish  a  single  government  procurement  
market, in order to maximize competitive opportunities for their suppliers and  
reduce costs of doing business for both government and the private sectors;  
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
This shal  be achieved by the Parties through:  
 
(a)  
ensuring the opportunity exists for their suppliers to compete on  
an equal and transparent basis for government procurements;  
 
(b)  
ensuring  the  non-application  against  their  suppliers of  
preferential schemes and other forms of discrimination based on  
the place of origin of goods and services;  
 
(c)  
promoting  the  use  of  electronic means for  government  
procurement; and  
 
(d)  
ensuring  fair  and  non-discriminatory  processes,  and  
mechanisms to  eliminate  any  potential  conflict  of  interest  
between  persons administering  the  processes and  suppliers  
participating in the processes.  
 
In  the  event  that  a  Party  makes commitments under  agreements  
relating  to  government  procurement,  which  both  are  parties  to,  which  are  
more favourable to the other Party than the commitments made under Annex  
8A, the more favourable offer shal  immediately and unconditional y apply.   
 
 
Article 8.2: Scope and Coverage  
 
1.  
 
This Chapter  applies  to  any  law,  regulation,  procedure  or  practice  
regarding any procurement by entities covered by this Chapter as specified in  
Annex 8A.  
 
2.  
 
This Chapter  applies  to  procurement  by  any  contractual  means,  
including through methods such as purchase or lease, rental or hire purchase,  
with or without an option to buy, of goods or services, or any combination of  
goods and services.   
 
3.  
 
No  entity  shal   require  institutions not  included  in  Annex  8A  to  award  
contracts with the intent of avoiding the obligations of this Chapter.  
 
4.  
 
This Chapter applies to any procurement contract of a value of not less  
than the relevant threshold specified in Annex 8A.  
 
 
 
8 - 1  
 
 
 
5.  
 
 
 
This Chapter does not apply to:  
 
(a)  
non-contractual  agreements or  any  form  of  governmental  
assistance,  including  cooperative  agreements,  grants,  loans,  
equity infusions, guarantees, fiscal incentives, and governmental  
provision  of  products and  services to  persons or  governmental  
authorities not specifical y covered under Annex 8A;  
 
(b)  
purchases funded by loans and grants made to a Party or to an  
entity of a Party by a person, international entities, associations,  
international  organizations 
or  other  States 
or  foreign  
governments,  to  the  extent  that  the  conditions of  such  
assistance are inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter. In  
the case of such inconsistency, the conditions of the assistance  
shal  prevail;  
 
(c)  
acquisition  of  fiscal  agency  services or  depository  services,  
liquidation  and  management  services for  regulated  financial  
institutions,  and  sale  and  distribution  services for  government  
debt;  
 
(d)  
hiring  of  government  employees and  related  employment  
measures; and  
 
(e)  
purchases made  under  exceptional y  advantageous  conditions  
which only arise in the very short term. This provision is:  
 
(i)  
intended to cover unusual disposals by companies which  
are  not  normal y  suppliers,  or  disposal  of  assets of  
businesses in liquidation or receivership; and  
 
(i )  
not  intended  to  cover  routine  purchases from  regular  
suppliers.  
 
6.   
No entity may prepare, design or otherwise structure or divide, at any  
stage  of  the  procurement,  any  procurement  with  the  intent  of  avoiding  the  
obligations of this Chapter.  
 
7.  
 
The provisions of this Chapter do not affect the rights and obligations  
provided  for  in  Chapters 2  (Trade  in  Goods),  3  (Rules  of  Origin),  9  
(Investment),  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services)  and  11  (Financial  
Services).   
 
8.  
 
Nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   prevent  either  Party  from  modifying  its  
procurement policies, procedures or contractual means, provided they are not  
inconsistent with this Chapter.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 - 2  
 
 
 
Article 8.3: National Treatment and Non-Discrimination  
 
1.   
With  respect  to  al   laws,  regulations,  procedures and  practices 
regarding government procurement covered by this Chapter, each Party shal   
provide immediately and unconditional y to the goods, services and suppliers  
of  the  other  Party  offering  such  goods and  services,  treatment  no  less  
favourable than that accorded to domestic goods, services and suppliers.  
 
2.   
With  respect  to  al   laws,  regulations,  procedures and  practices 
regarding government procurement covered by this Chapter, each Party shal   
ensure that its entities shal  not:  
 
(a)  
treat a local y established supplier less favourably than another  
local y  established  supplier  on  the  basis of  degree  of  foreign  
affiliation or ownership; and  
 
(b)  
discriminate  against  a  local y  established  supplier  on  the  basis  
that that the good or services offered by that supplier are goods  
or services of the other Party.  
 
3.  
 
The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shal  not apply to customs duties  
and  charges of  any  kind  imposed  on  or  in  connection  with  importation,  the  
method  of  levying  such  duties and  charges,  other  import  regulations and  
formalities,  and  measures affecting  trade  in  services other  than  laws,  
regulations,  procedures and  practices regarding  government  procurement  
covered by this Chapter.    
 
 
Article: 8.4: Valuation of Contracts  
 
The fol owing provisions shal  apply in determining the value of contracts for  
purposes of implementing this Chapter:  
 
(a)  
valuation  shal   take  into  account  al   forms of  remuneration,  
including  any  premiums,  fees,  commissions and  interest  
receivable;   
 
(b)  
the selection of a valuation method by a government body shal   
not be made, nor shal  any procurement requirement be divided,  
with the intention of avoiding the application of this Chapter; and  
 
(c)  
in  cases where  an  intended  procurement  includes option  
clauses,  the  basis for  valuation  shal   be  the  total  value  of  the  
maximum  permissible  procurement,  inclusive  of  optional  
purchases.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 - 3  
 
 
 
Article 8.5: Rules of Origin  
 
A  Party  shal   not  apply  rules of  origin  to  goods supplied  for  purposes of  
government procurement covered by this Chapter from the other Party, which  
are different from the rules of origin applied in the normal course of trade and  
at the time of the transaction in question to supplies of the same goods from  
that other Party.  
 
 
Article 8.6: Offsets  
 
Entities shal   not,  in  the  course  of  a  procurement,  impose,  seek  or  consider  
offsets.  
 
 
Article 8.7: Publication of Procurement Measures  
 
1.  
 
Each  Party  shal   promptly  publish  any  law  and  regulation  and  the  
modifications thereof,  and  make  publicly  available  any  judicial  decision  and  
administrative  ruling  of  general  application  and  procedure  specifical y  
governing procurement covered by this Chapter in publicly accessible media.    
 
2.  
 
Upon  the  request  of  a  Party,  the  other  Party  wil   provide  a  copy  of  a  
judicial decision or administrative ruling of general application and procedure  
relating to procurement.  
 
 
Article 8.8: Publication of Notice of Intended Procurement  
 
1.  
 
Except  as otherwise  provided  for  in  Article  8.13  (Limited  Tendering  
Procedures),  procuring  entities shal   publish  a  notice  inviting  interested  
suppliers to  submit  tenders for  each  procurement  covered  by  this Chapter.   
This notice  shal   be  published  in  publicly  accessible  media  and  made  
accessible during  the entire  period  established for  tendering for  the  relevant  
procurement.  
 
2.   
Each notice of intended procurement shal  include a description of the  
intended procurement, any conditions that suppliers must fulfil  to participate  
in  the  procurement,  the  name  of  the  entity  issuing  the  notice,  the  address  
where  suppliers may  obtain  al   documents relating  to  the  procurement,  the  
time limits and address for submission of tenders and the delivery dates of the  
goods or services to be procured.  
 
 
Article 8.9: Time Limits for the Tendering Processes  
 
1.   
An  entity  shal   prescribe  time  limits  for  the  tendering  process that  
al ows sufficient time for suppliers to prepare and submit responsive tenders,  
taking into account the nature and complexity of the procurement.  An entity  
 
 
 
 
8 - 4  
 
 
 
shal  provide no less than 30 days between the date on which it publishes the  
notice of intended procurement and the deadline for submitting tenders.  
 
2.  
 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, an entity may establish a time period of  
less than 30 days, provided that the time period is sufficiently long to enable  
suppliers to prepare and submit responsive tenders and shal  in no case be  
less than five working days, where the procurement is published by the entity  
by electronic means.  
 
 
Article 8.10: Tender Documentation  
 
1.  
 
An entity shal  provide interested suppliers with tender documentation  
that includes al  the information necessary to permit suppliers to prepare and  
submit  responsive  tenders.  The  documentation  shal   include  al   the  criteria  
that the entity wil  consider in awarding the contract, including al  cost factors,  
and the weights or, where appropriate, the relative values that the entity will  
assign to these criteria in evaluating tenders.  
 
2.  
 
An  entity  shal   endeavour  to  make  available  relevant  tender  
documentation  on  the  internet  or  a  comparable  publicly  available  computer- 
based telecommunications network openly accessible to al  suppliers. Where  
an entity does not publish al  the tender documentation by electronic means,  
the  entity  shal ,  on  request  of  a  supplier,  promptly  make  the  documentation  
available in written form to the supplier.  
 
3.   
Where  an  entity,  during  the  course  of  a  procurement,  modifies the  
criteria  referred  to  in  paragraph  1,  it  shal   transmit  al   such  modifications in  
writing or by electronic means:  
 
(a)  
to  al   suppliers that  are  participating  in  the  procurement  at  the  
time the criteria was modified, if the identities of such suppliers  
are  known,  and  in  al   other  cases,  in  the  same  manner  the  
original information was transmitted; and  
 
(b)  
in adequate time to al ow such suppliers to modify and re-submit  
their tenders, as appropriate.  
 
 
Article 8.11: Technical Specifications  
 
1.   
Technical specifications laying down the characteristics of the goods or  
services to be procured shal  not be prepared, adopted or applied with a view  
to,  or  with  the  effect  of  creating  unnecessary  obstacles to  trade  among  the  
Parties.  
 
2.   
Technical  specifications prescribed  by  an  entity  shal ,  where  
appropriate, be:  
 
 
 
 
 
8 - 5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
 
(a)  
in  terms of  performance  requirements rather  than  design  or  
descriptive characteristics; and  
 
(b)  
based  on  international  standards,  where  applicable;  otherwise,  
on recognised national standards.  
 
 There shal  be no requirement or reference to a particular trademark or  
trade  name,  patent,  design  or  type,  specific origin  or  producer  or  supplier  
unless there  is no  sufficiently  precise  or  intel igible  way  of  otherwise  
describing  the  procurement  requirements and  provided  that,  in  such  cases,  
words such as “or equivalent” are included in the tender documentation.  
 
4.   
Entities shal  not seek or accept, in a manner that would have the effect  
of  precluding  competition,  advice  that  may  be  used  in  the  preparation  or  
adoption  of  any  technical  specification  for  a  specific procurement  from  a  
person that may have a commercial interest in that procurement.  
 
 
Article 8.12: Registration and Qualification of Suppliers  
 
1.  
 
In the process of registering and / or qualifying suppliers, the entities of  
a Party shal  not discriminate between domestic suppliers and suppliers of the  
other Party.  
 
2.  
 
Any conditions for participation in open tendering procedures shal  be  
no less favourable to suppliers of the other Party than to domestic suppliers.  
 
3.  
 
The process of, and the time required for, registering and / or qualifying  
suppliers shal  not be used in order to keep suppliers of the other Party off a  
list of suppliers or from being considered for a particular procurement.  
 
4.  
 
Entities maintaining  permanent  lists of  registered  and  /  or  qualified  
suppliers shal  ensure that suppliers may apply for registration or qualification  
at any time, and that al  registered and qualified suppliers are included in the  
lists within a reasonably short time.  
 
5.  
 
Nothing in this Article shal  preclude an entity from excluding a supplier  
from  a  procurement  on  grounds such  as bankruptcy  or  false  declaration,  
provided  that  such  an  action  is consistent  with  the  national  treatment  
provisions of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 8.13: Limited Tendering Procedures  
 
1.   
Entities shal  award contracts by means of open tendering procedures,  
in the course of which any interested supplier may submit a tender.  
 
2.  
 
 Provided that the tendering procedure is not used to avoid competition  
or to protect domestic suppliers, entities may award contracts by means other  
 
 
 
 
8 - 6  
 
 
 
than  open  tendering  procedures in  the  fol owing  circumstances,  where  
applicable:  
 
(a)  
in  the  absence  of  tenders that  conform  to  the  essential  
requirements  in  the  tender  documentation  provided  in  a  prior  
invitation to tender, including any conditions for participation, on  
condition that the requirements of the initial procurement are not  
substantial y modified in the contract as awarded;  
 
(b)  
where,  for  works of  art,  or  for  reasons connected  with  the  
protection of exclusive rights, such as patents or copyrights, or  
proprietary  information,  or  where  there  is an  absence  of  
competition for technical reasons, the goods or services can be  
supplied  only  by a  particular  supplier  and  no  reasonable  
alternative or substitute exists;  
 
(c)  
for additional deliveries by the original supplier that are intended  
either  as replacement  parts,  extensions,  or  continuing  services 
for existing equipment, software, services or instal ations, where  
a change of supplier would compel the entity to procure goods  
or services not meeting requirements of inter-changeability with  
existing equipment, software, services, or instal ations;  
 
(d)  
for goods purchased on a commodity market;  
 
(e)  
where  an  entity  procures a  prototype  or  a  first  good  or  service  
that  is developed  at  its request  in  the  course  of,  and  for,  a  
particular  contract  for  research,  experiment,  study  or  original  
development.  When  such  contracts have  been  fulfil ed,  
subsequent  procurements of  such  goods or  services shal   be  
subject  to  the  principles and  procedures  laid  down  in  this 
Chapter;  
 
(f)  
 
where additional construction services that were not included in  
the  initial  contract  but  that  were  within  the  objectives of  the  
original  tender  documentation  have,  due  to  unforeseeable  
circumstances, become necessary to complete the construction  
services described therein. However, the total value of contracts  
awarded for additional construction services may not exceed 50  
percent of the amount of the initial contract;   
 
(g)  
for  new  construction  services consisting  of  the  repetition  of  
similar construction services which conform to a basic project for  
which  an  initial  contract  was awarded  in  accordance  with  
Articles 8.3 to 8.12;  
 
(h)  
in so far as is strictly necessary  where, for reasons of urgency  
brought about by events unforeseeable by the entity, the goods  
or services could not be obtained in time by means of an open  
tendering  procedure  and  the  use  of  an  open  tendering  
 
 
8 - 7  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)  
 
 
 
procedure  would  result  in  serious injury  to  the  entity,  or  the  
entity's program responsibilities, or the Party; or  
 
in  the  case  of  contracts awarded  to  the  winner  of  a  design  
contest  provided  that  the  contest  has been  organized  in  a  
manner  which  is consistent  with  the  principles of  this  Chapter.  
The contest shal  be judged by an independent jury with a view  
to design contracts being awarded to the winners.  
 
3.   
An entity shal  maintain a record for a period of at least one year from  
the date of the award of a contract, or prepare a written report on the contract  
awarded under these provisions, containing the name of the entity, the value  
and  kind  of  goods  or  services procured,  country  of  origin  and  the  specific  
justifications for  use  of  tender  procedures other  than  open  tendering  
procedures, as provided in paragraph 2.   
 
 
Article 8.14: Information on Awards 
 
1.  
 
 Subject to Article 8.20 (Non-Disclosure of Information), an entity shal   
promptly inform suppliers participating in a tendering procedure of its contract  
award  decision.  The  award  notice  should  include  at  least  the  fol owing  
information:  
 
(a)  
the name of the entity;  
 
(b)  
a description of the goods or services procured;  
 
(c)  
the name of the winning supplier;  
 
(d)  
the value of the contract award; and  
 
(e)  
where  the  entity  has not  used  open  tendering  procedure,  an  
indication of the circumstances according to Article 8.13 (Limited  
Tendering Procedures) justifying the procedures used.  
 
2.  
 
Entities shal ,  on  request  from  an  unsuccessful  supplier  of  the  other  
Party  which  participated  in  the  relevant  tender,  promptly  provide  pertinent  
information  concerning  reasons for  the  rejection  of  its tender,  unless the  
release  of  such  information  would  impede  law  enforcement  or  otherwise  be  
contrary  to  the  public interest  or  would  prejudice  the  legitimate  commercial  
interest  of  particular  enterprises,  public or  private,  or  might  prejudice  fair  
competition between suppliers.  
 
 
Article 8.15: Modifications and Rectifications to Coverage  
 
1.  
 
When  an  entity  or  party  thereof  listed  in  Annex  8A  is corporatised  or  
privatized  as a  legal  entity  separate  and  distinct  from  the  Government  of  a  
Party, regardless of whether or not the Government holds any shares in such  
 
 
8 - 8  
 
 
 
a  legal  entity,  this Chapter  shal   no  longer  apply  to  that  entity  or  the  party  
thereof that is so corporatised or privatized. A Party shal  notify the other Party  
of the name of such an entity before it is corporatised or privatized or as soon  
as possible  thereafter.  The  Parties agree  that  no  claim  for  compensatory  
adjustments shal  be made in al  such cases.  
 
2.  
 
A Party may make technical rectifications of a purely formal nature to  
its coverage  under  this Chapter,  or  minor  amendments to  its schedules in  
Annex  8A  to  this Chapter,  provided  that  it  notifies the  other  Party  in  writing  
and  that  the  other  Party  does not  object  in  writing  within  30  days of  the  
notification.  For  such  technical  rectifications or  minor  amendments,  no  
compensatory adjustments need to be provided to the other Party.  
 
 
Article 8.16: Transparency  
 
The  Parties shal   apply  al   procurement  laws,  regulations,  procedures and  
practices consistently, fairly and equitably so that their corporate governance  
structures provide transparency to potential suppliers.  
 
 
Article 8.17: Electronic Procurement  
 
1.  
 
The  Parties shal ,  within  the  context  of  their  commitment  to  promote  
electronic commerce,  seek to  provide  opportunities for  government  
procurement to be undertaken through electronic means, hereinafter referred  
to as “e-procurement”.  
 
2.  
 
Each  Party  shal   work  toward  a  single  entry  point  for  the  purpose  of  
enabling  suppliers to  access information  on  procurement  opportunities in  its  
territory.  
 
3.  
 
Each  Party  shal   endeavour  to  make  procurement  opportunities  that  
are  available  to  the  public accessible  to  suppliers via  the  Internet  or  any  
publicly  available  electronic medium.  Each  Party  shal   endeavour  to  make  
available relevant documentation by the same means.  
 
4.  
 
Each Party shal  encourage its entities to publish, as early as possible  
in  the  fiscal  year,  information  regarding  the  entity’s indicative  procurement  
plans in the e-procurement portal.  
 
 
Article 8.18: Challenge Procedures  
 
1.  
 
In the event of a complaint by a supplier of a Party that there has been  
a  breach  of  this Chapter  in  the  context  of  procurement  by  an  entity  of  the  
other  Party,  that  Party  shal   encourage  the  supplier  to  seek resolution  of  its  
complaint in consultation with the entity of the other Party. In such instances  
the entity of the other Party shal  accord timely and impartial consideration to  
 
 
 
 
8 - 9  
 
 
 
any  such  complaint,  in  such  a  manner  that  is not  prejudicial  to  obtaining  
corrective measures under the chal enge system.  
 
2.  
 
Each  Party  shal   provide  suppliers of  the  other  Party  with  non- 
discriminatory,  timely,  transparent  and  effective  procedures,  consistent  with  
the  principle  of  due  process,  to  chal enge  al eged  breaches of  this Chapter  
arising  in  the  context  of  procurements in  which  they  have,  or  have  had,  an  
interest.  
 
3.  
 
Each Party shal  provide its chal enge procedures in writing and make  
them general y available. An entity’s total liability under these procedures for  
any  breach  of  this Chapter  or  compensation  for  loss or  damages suffered  
shal  be limited to the costs for tender preparation reasonably incurred by the  
supplier for the purpose of the procurement.  
 
 
Article 8.19: Exceptions  
 
1.  
 
Nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   be  construed  to  prevent  any  Party  from  
taking  any  action  or  not  disclosing  any  information  which  it  considers  
necessary  for  the  protection  of  its essential  security  interests relating  to  
procurement  indispensable  for  national  security  or  for  national  defence  
purpose.  
 
2.  
 
Subject  to  the  requirement  that  such  measures are  not  applied  in  a  
manner  which  would  constitute  a  means of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  
discrimination  between  countries where  the  same  conditions prevail  or  a  
disguised  restriction  on  international  trade,  nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   be  
construed to prevent any Party from imposing or enforcing measures:   
 
(a)  
necessary to protect public morals, order or safety;   
 
(b)  
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;  
 
(c)  
necessary to protect intel ectual property; or   
 
(d)  
relating to the products or services of handicapped persons, of  
philanthropic institutions or of prison labour.  
 
 
Article 8.20: Non-Disclosure of Information  
 
1.  
 
The Parties, their entities, and their review authorities shal  not disclose  
confidential  information,  if  such  disclosure  would  prejudice  the  legitimate  
commercial interests of a particular person or might prejudice fair competition  
between  suppliers,  without  the  formal  authorisation  of  the  person  that  
provided such information to the Party.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 - 10 
 
 
 
2.   
Nothing  in  this Chapter  shal   be  construed  as requiring  a  Party  or  its  
entities to  disclose  confidential  information,  if  such  disclosure  would  impede  
law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public interest.  
 
 
Article 8.21: Cooperation  
 
The  Parties agree  make  available  information  and  share  best  practices  
relating  to  government  procurement,  including  the  development  and  use  of  
electronic means in government procurement systems.  
 
 
Article 8.22: Definitions  
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
1.  
 
2.  
 
entity means an entity of a Party listed in Annex 8A;  
 
offsets  means measures used  to  encourage  local  development  or  
improve  the  balance-of-payments accounts  by  means  of  domestic content,  
licensing  of  technology,  investment  requirements,  counter-trade  or  similar  
requirements;  
 
3.  
 
publish  means to  disseminate  information  in  an  electronic or  paper  
medium  that  is distributed  widely  and  is readily  accessible  to  the  general  
public; and  
 
4.  
 
supplier means a person that has provided, provides or could provide  
goods or services to an entity.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 - 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
 
 
 
ANNEX 8A  
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT  
 
 
Section A: Central Level of Government Entities  
 
This Chapter applies to the entities of the central level of government  
listed in this Section, where the value of the procurement is estimated to equal  
or exceed the fol owing relevant threshold, for procurement of:  
 
(a)  
Goods and Services:  
 
(b)  
Construction services:  
 
SDR  130,000; and  
 
SDR  5,000,000.  
 
2.  
 
Unless otherwise  specified,  this Chapter  covers al   agencies  
subordinate to the entities listed in each Party’s Schedule.  
 
 
Schedule of Panama  
 
Asamblea Legislativa  
Contraloría General de la República  
Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias 
Ministerio de Desarrol o Agropecuario  
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Ministerio de Educación (Note 2)  
Ministerio de Desarrol o Social  
Ministerio de Obras Públicas 
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores 
Ministerio de Trabajo y Desarrol o Laboral  
Ministerio de Vivienda  
Órgano Judicial  
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Panama  
 
1.  
 
This Chapter does not cover procurement for the issuance of currency,  
coinage, tax or postage stamps.  
 
2.  
 
Ministerio de Educación: This Chapter does not cover the procurement  
of  goods classified under  Divisions 21,  22, 23, 24,  26, 27,  28  and  29  of  the  
United Nations Central Product Classification (CPC).  
 
3.  
 
Exceptions to coverage set forth in Section F apply to this Section.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8A - 1 
 
 
 
Schedule of Singapore  
 
Auditor-General's Office  
Attorney-General's Office  
Cabinet Office  
Istana  
Judicature  
Ministry of Transport  
Ministry of Community Development and Sports 
Ministry of Education  
Ministry of Environment  
Ministry of Finance  
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Ministry of Health  
Ministry of Home Affairs 
Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts 
Ministry of Manpower  
Ministry of Law  
Ministry of National Development  
Ministry of Trade and Industry  
Parliament  
Presidential Councils 
Prime Minister's Office  
Public Service Commission  
Ministry of Defence  
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Singapore 
 
1.  
 
This Chapter  wil   general y  apply  to  purchases by  the  Singapore  
Ministry of Defence of the fol owing FSC (For complete listing of U.S. Federal  
Supply Classification,  see:  
www.scrantonrtg.com/secrc/fsc-codes/fsc.html)  
categories (others being excluded) subject to the Government of Singapore's  
determinations under  the  provision  of  Article  8.19  (Exceptions)  of  this  
Chapter.  
 
FSC  Description  
 
22  
Railway Equipment  
23  
Ground Effect Vehicles, Motor Vehicles, Trailers and Cycles 
24  
Tractors 
25  
Vehicular Equipment Components 
26  
Tires and Tubes 
29  
Engine Accessories 
30  
Mechanical Power Transmission Equipment  
31  
Bearings 
32  
Woodworking Machinery and Equipment  
34  
Metalworking Machinery  
35  
Service and Trade Equipment  
36  
Special Industry Machinery  
 
 
8A - 2 
 
 
 
37  
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment  
38  
Construction, Mining, Excavating and Highway Maintenance  
Equipment  
39  
Materials Handling Equipment  
40  
Rope, Cable, Chain and Fittings 
41  
Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Air Circulating Equipment  
42  
Fire Fighting, Rescue and Safety Equipment  
43  
Pumps and Compressors 
44  
Furnace, Steam Plant and Drying Equipment  
45  
Plumbing, Heating and Sanitation Equipment  
46  
Water Purification and Sewage Treatment Equipment  
47  
Pipe, Tubing, Hose and Fittings 
48  
Valves 
51  
Handtools 
52  
Measuring Tools 
53  
Hardware and Abrasives 
54  
Prefabricated Structures and Scaffolding  
55  
Lumber, Mil work, Plywood and Veneer  
56  
Construction and Building Materials 
61  
Electric Wire, and Power and Distribution Equipment  
62  
Lighting, Fixtures and Lamps 
63  
Alarm, Signal and Security Detection Systems 
65  
Medical, Dental and Veterinary Equipment and Supplies 
67  
Photographic Equipment  
68  
Chemicals and Chemical Products 
69  
Training Aids and Devices 
70  
General  Purpose  Automatic Data  Processing  Equipment,  Software,  
Supplies and Support Equipment  
71  
Furniture  
72  
Household and Commercial Furnishings and Appliances 
73  
Food Preparation and Serving Equipment  
74  
Office Machines, Text Processing Systems and Visible Record  
Equipment  
75  
Office Supplies and Devices 
76  
Books, Maps and other Publications 
77  
Musical Instruments, Phonographs and Home-Type Radios  
78  
Recreational and Athletic Equipment  
79  
Cleaning Equipment and Supplies 
80  
Brushes, Paints, Sealers and Adhesives 
81  
Containers, Packaging and Packing Supplies  
83  
Textiles, Leather, Furs, Apparel and Shoe Findings, Tents and Flags 
84  
Clothing, Individual Equipment, and Insignia  
85  
Toiletries 
87  
Agricultural Supplies 
88  
Live Animals 
89  
Subsistence  
91  
Fuels, Lubricants, Oils and Waxes 
93  
Non-metal ic Fabricated Materials 
94  
Non-metal ic Crude Materials 
95  
Metal Bars, Sheets and Shapes 
 
8A - 3 
 
 
 
96  
Ores, Minerals, and their Primary Products 
99  
Miscel aneous 
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  
 
This Chapter shal  not apply to any procurement in respect of:  
 
(a)  
construction  contracts  for  chanceries abroad  and  headquarters  
buildings made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;  and  
 
(b)  
contracts made  by  the  Internal  Security  Department,  Criminal  
Investigation  Department,  Security  Branch  and  Central  
Narcotics Bureau  of  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs as wel   as 
procurement  that  have  security  considerations made  by  the  
Ministry.  
 
This Chapter  shal   not  apply  to  any  procurement  made  by  a  covered  
entity on behalf of a non-covered institution.  
 
 
Section B: Other Government Entities  
 
1.  
 
This Chapter applies to the other covered entities listed in each Party’s  
Schedule to this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated to  
equal or exceed the fol owing relevant threshold, for procurement of:  
 
(a)  
Goods and Services:  
 
(b)  
Construction services:  
 
SDR  400,000; and  
 
SDR  5,000,000.  
 
2.  
 
Unless otherwise specified, this Chapter covers only the entities listed  
in each Party’s Schedule in this Section.  
 
 
Schedule of Panama  
 
Autoridad de Aeronáutica Civil  
Autoridad de la Micro Pequeña y Mediana Empresa  
Autoridad de la Región Interoceánica  
Autoridad del Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre (Note 1)  
Autoridad Marítima de Panamá  
Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente  
Banco de Desarrol o Agropecuario  
Bingos Nacionales 
Comisión de Libre Competencia y Asuntos del Consumidor  
Comisión Nacional de Valores 
Defensoría del Pueblo  
Ente Regulador de los Servicios Públicos 
Instituto de Investigación Agropecuaria  
Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario  
Instituto de Seguro Agropecuario  
Instituto Nacional de Cultura  
 
 
8A - 4 
 
 
 
Instituto Nacional de Deportes 
Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional  
Instituto Panameño Autónomo Cooperativo  
Instituto Panameño de Habilitación Especial  
Instituto Panameño de Turismo  
Instituto para la Formación y Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos 
Registro Público de Panamá  
Superintendencia de Bancos 
Universidad Autónoma de Chiriquí  
Universidad Especializada de las Américas 
Universidad Tecnológica de Panamá  
Zona Libre de Colón  
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Panama  
 
1.  Autoridad  del  Tránsito  y  Transporte  Terrestre:  This Chapter  does not  
cover  the  procurement  of  license  plates or  identification  stickers  for  motor  
vehicles and bicycles.  
 
2.  Exceptions to coverage set forth in Section F apply to this Section.  
 
 
Schedule of Singapore  
 
Agency for Science, Technology and Research  
Board of Architects  
Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore  
Building and Construction Authority  
Economic Development Board  
Housing and Development Board  
Info–communications Development Authority of Singapore  
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore  
International Enterprise Singapore  
Land Transport Authority of Singapore  
Jurong Town Corporation  
Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore  
Monetary Authority of Singapore  
Nanyang Technological University  
National Parks Board  
National University of Singapore  
Preservation of Monuments Board  
Professional Engineers Board  
Public Transport Council  
Sentosa Development Corporation  
Singapore Broadcasting Authority  
Singapore Tourism Board  
Standards, Productivity and Innovation Board  
Urban Redevelopment Authority  
 
 
 
8A - 5 
 
 
 
Note to the Schedule of Singapore 
 
This Chapter shal  not apply to any procurement made by a covered entity on  
behalf of a non-covered institution.  
 
 
Section C: Goods  
 
This Chapter applies to al  goods procured by the entities listed in Sections A  
and B for each Party, subject to the Notes to the respective Sections and the  
General Notes of each Party.  
 
 
Section D: Services  
 
This Chapter applies to services procured by the entities listed in Sections A  
and  B,  only  if  are  included  in  each  Party’s Schedule  to  this Section  (others  
being excluded), subject to the Notes to the respective Sections, the General  
Notes, and the Notes to this Section.  
 
 
Schedule of Panama  
 
This positive list includes the fol owing services, in accordance with the United  
Nations Central  Product  Classification  (Provisional  CPC)  System  and  the  
MTN.GNS/W/120 Classification system.  
 
Code 
61111  
7523  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
84  
86401  
865  
8672  
8675  
871  
88442  
9404  
9405  
9406  
 
Provisional CPC Description 
Wholesale trade services of motor vehicles 
Value-added telecommunications.   
h. electronic mail; i. voice mail; j. information extraction online  
and  from  databases;  k.  electronic data  interchange  (EDI)  
services;  l.  broadened/value-added  facsimile  services,   
including storage and retrieval services; m. code and protocol  
conversion;  n.  processing  of data  and /  or online  information  
(including transaction processing); o. other.  
Information technology and related services 
Market research services 
Management consulting services 
Engineering services  
Related scientific and technical consulting services  
Advertising services 
Publishing and printing. Editorials only. Excludes: Press 
Cleaning services of exhaust gases 
Noise abatement services 
Nature  and  landscape  protection  services.  (Part  of  CPC  
94060)  Exclusively:  Services for  conducting  studies on  the  
relationship  between  the  environment  and  climate,  including  
natural disaster assessment services and services to mitigate  
the effects of natural disasters.  
 
 
8A - 6 
 
 
 
96112  
96113  
96121  
96122  
96311  
 
Code 
641-643  
862  
7512  
8671  
874  
87909  
8861-8866  
 
 
Others  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
 
 
 
Motion Picture or Video Tape Production Services  
Motion Picture or Video Tape Distribution Services 
Motion Picture Projection Services 
Video Tape Projection Services 
Library Services 
 
MTN.GNS/W/120 Description 
Hotels and Restaurants (including catering)  
Accounting, Auditing and Book-keeping Services 
Courier Services 
Architectural Services 
Building-Cleaning Services 
Convention services 
Maintenance  and  repair  of  equipment  (not  including  
maritime vessels, aircraft or other transport equipment)  
 
 
Biotechnology Services 
Exhibition Services 
Commercial Market Research  
Interior Design Services, Excluding Architecture  
Professional,  Advisory  and  Consulting  Services 
Relating to Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Mining,  
Including Oilfield Services 
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Panama  
 
1.  
 
2.  
 
This Chapter covers the procurements of dredging services.  
 
The  limitations and  conditions specified  in  the  Republic of  Panama’s  
offer under GATS negotiations apply to this Section.  
 
3.  
 
The  non  conforming  measures set  forth  in  Annexes I,  II  and  III  to  
Chapter  9  (Investment),  Chapter  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services)  and  
Chapter 11 (Financial Services) applies to this Section.  
 
4.  
 
Exceptions to coverage set forth in Section F apply to this Section.  
 
 
Schedule of Singapore  
 
The fol owing services as contained in document MTN.GNS/W/120 are offered:  
 
CPC    
862    
8671    
865    
874    
641-643  
 
Description  
Accounting, Auditing and Book-keeping Services  
Architectural Services  
Management Consulting Services  
Building-Cleaning Services  
Hotels and Restaurants (incl. catering)  
 
 
8A - 7 
 
 
 
74710   
7472    
843    
844    
932    
84100  
 
84210   
87905   
7523    
7523    
7523    
7523    
96112   
96113   
96121   
96122   
96311   
8672    
8675    
 
 
 
Travel Agencies and Tour Operators  
Tourist Guide Services 
Data Processing Services  
Database Services  
Veterinary Services  
Consultancy Services Related to the Instal ation of Computer  
Hardware  
Systems and Software Consulting Services  
Translation and Interpretation Services  
Electronic Mail  
Voice Mail  
On-Line Information and Database Retrieval  
Electronic Data Interchange  
Motion Picture or Video Tape Production Services  
Motion Picture or Video Tape Distribution Services  
Motion Picture Projection Services  
Video Tape Projection Services  
Library Services  
Engineering Services  
Related scientific and technical consulting services  
8861-8866  Maintenance  and  repair  of  equipment  (not  including  maritime  
vessels, aircraft or other transport equipment) (Note 2)  
7512    
Courier Services  
   -  
Biotechnology Services 
   -  
Exhibition Services  
   -  
Commercial Market Research  
   -  
Interior Design Services, Excluding Architecture  
   -  
Professional,  Advisory and  Consulting  Services  Relating  to  
Agriculture,  Forestry,  Fishing  and  Mining,  Including  Oilfield  
Services  
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Singapore 
 
1.  
 
2.  
 
This Chapter covers the procurements of dredging services.  
 
This Chapter does not cover procurements of these services made by  
the Elections Department for elections related procurements.  
 
3.  
 
The offer regarding services is subject to the limitations and conditions  
specified in the Government of Singapore's offer under the GATS negotiations.  
 
4.  
 
This  Chapter  shal   not  apply  to  any  procurement  made  by  a  covered  
entity on behalf of a non-covered entity.  
 
 
Section E:  Construction Services  
 
This Chapter applies to construction services procured by the entities listed in  
Sections A and B, only if are included in each Party’s Schedule to this Section  
 
 
8A - 8 
 
 
 
(others being excluded), subject to the Notes to the respective Sections, the  
General Notes, and the Notes to this Section. 
 
 
Schedule of Panama  
 
This positive  list  includes the  fol owing  construction  services,  in  accordance  
with  the  United  Nations Central  Product  Classification  System  (Provisional  
CPC).   
 
Code: 
511  
512  
513  
514  
515  
516  
517  
518  
 
Provisional CPC Description 
Pre-erection work at construction sites 
Construction work for buildings 
Construction work for civil engineering  
Assembly and erection of prefabricated constructions 
Special trade construction work 
Instal ation work 
Building completion and finishing work 
Renting  services related  to  equipment  for  construction  or  
demolition of buildings or civil engineering works, with operator  
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Panama  
 
1.  
 
Individuals in  charge  of  engineering  or  architectural  works must  be  
qualified professional engineers or architects in Panama.  
 
2.  
 
The  limitations and  conditions specified  in  the  Republic of  Panama’s  
offer under GATS negotiations apply to this Section.  
 
3.  
 
The  non  conforming  measures set  forth  in  Annexes I,  II  and  III  to  
Chapter  9  (Investment),  Chapter  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services)  and  
Chapter 11 (Financial Services) applies to this Section.  
 
4.  
 
Exceptions to coverage set forth in Section F apply to this Section.  
 
 
Schedule of Singapore  
 
The  fol owing  list  of  construction  services  as  contained  in  document  
MTN.GNS/W/120 are offered:  
 
CPC  
512  
513  
514, 516  
517  
 
Description  
General construction work for buildings  
General construction work for civil engineering  
Instal ation and assembly work  
Building completion and finishing work  
511, 515, 518  Others  
 
 
 
 
 
 
8A - 9 
 
 
 
Notes to the Schedule of Singapore  
 
1.  
 
Individuals in charge of engineering or architectural works must be  
qualified professional engineers or architects in Singapore. 
 
2.  
 
The offer regarding construction services is subject to the limitations and  
conditions  specified  in  the  Government  of  Singapore's  offer  under  the  GATS  
negotiations.  
 
3.  
 
This  Chapter  shal   not  apply  to  any  procurement  made  by  a  covered  
entity on behalf of a non-covered entity.  
 
 
Section F: General Notes  
 
Unless otherwise specified herein, the fol owing General Notes in each Party’s 
Schedule apply without exception to this Chapter, including to al  sections of  
this Annex.  
 
 
Schedule of Panama  
 
This Chapter shal  not apply to:  
 
1.  
 
Procurements made under  the  system  of  concessions granted  by  the  
State, other than public works concession contracts and build-operate-transfer  
contracts.  
 
2.  
 
Procurements  designed  to  promote  micro,  smal   and  medium  
enterprises.  
 
3.  
 
Procurements  of  agricultural  products  linked  to  agricultural  
development  and  support  and  food  aid  programs,  as wel   as those  deemed  
sensitive by the Republic of Panama.  
 
4.  
 
Procurements  that  are  directly  or  indirectly  related  to  social  and/or  
geographic development programs.  
 
5.  
 
Procurements made  by  a  covered  entity  on  behalf  of  a  non-covered  
institution.  
 
 
Schedule of Singapore  
 
This Chapter shal  not apply to: 
 
Procurements made  by a  covered  entity  on  behalf  of  a  non-covered  
institution.  
 
 
 
 
 
8A - 10 
