 
 
 
CHAPTER 15  
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT  
 
 
Article 15.1: Cooperation   
 
The  Parties shal   at  al   times endeavour  to  agree  on  the  interpretation  and  
application  of  this Agreement,  and  shal   make  every  attempt  through  
cooperation and consultations to arrive at a mutual y satisfactory resolution of  
any matter that might affect its operation.  
 
 
Article 15.2: Scope of Application   
 
1.  
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Chapter  shal   apply  with  respect  to  the  avoidance  or  settlement  of  disputes  
between  the  Parties  concerning  their  rights and  obligations under  this  
Agreement.    
 
2.    
The rules, procedures and time frames set out in this Chapter may be  
waived, varied or modified by mutual agreement.   
 
 
Article 15.3: Consultations   
 
1.  
 
Except  as otherwise  provided  in  this Agreement,  either  Party  may 
request consultations with the other Party with respect to any matter affecting  
the implementation, interpretation or application of this Agreement. If a Party  
requests consultations  with  regard  to  a  matter,  the  other  Party  shal   afford  
adequate opportunity for consultations and shal  reply promptly to the request  
for consultations and enter into consultations in good faith.   
 
2.   
The  requesting  Party  shal   deliver  the  request  to  the  other  Party  and  
shal   set  out  the  reasons for  the  request,  including  identification  of  the  
measure or other matter at issue and an indication of the legal basis for the  
complaint.  
 
3.   
Consultations shal  be held within 30 days after the date of receipt of  
the  request  for  consultations.  Consultations on  matters regarding  perishable  
goods
1 shal  commence within 10 days after the date of receipt of the request.  
 
4.   
The Parties shal  at al  times endeavour to agree on the interpretation  
and application of the Agreement and shal  make every attempt to arrive at a  
mutual y satisfactory resolution of any matter through consultations under this 
Article  or  other  consultative  provisions of  this Agreement.  To  this  end,  the  
Parties shal :  
 
 
 
1  For  greater  certainty,  the  term  “perishable  goods”  means  perishable  agricultural  and  fish  
goods classified in Chapters 1 through 24 of the Harmonized System.  
 
 
15 - 1 
 
 
 
(a)   provide sufficient information to enable a ful  examination of how  
the  measure  or  other  matter  might  affect  the  operation  and  
application of this Agreement; and  
 
(b)   
treat  any  confidential  information  exchanged  in  the  course  of  
consultations which  the  other  Party  has designated  as  
confidential,  on  the  same  basis  as the  Party providing  the  said  
information.  
 
 
Article  15.4:  Referral  to  the  Administrative  Commission,  Good  Offices,  
Conciliation and Mediation  
 
 
1.  
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Article shal  apply whenever:  
 
(a)  
a  Party  considers that  any  benefit  accruing  to  it  directly  or  
indirectly under this Agreement is being nul ified or impaired, or  
that  the  attainment  of any  objective  of  this Agreement  is being  
impeded,  as  a  result  of  a  measure  of  the  other  Party  that  is  
inconsistent with this Agreement;  
 
(b)  
a  Party  considers that any  benefit  the  Party  could  reasonably  
have  expected  to  accrue  to  it  under  Chapters 2  (Trade  in  
Goods),  3  (Rules of  Origin)  and  10  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  
Services),  is being  nul ified  or  impaired  as the  result  of  a  
measure that is not inconsistent with this Agreement; or 
 
(c)  
the  Parties are  unable  to  agree  on  compensatory  adjustments  
pursuant to Headnotes of Section A and Section B of Annex III  
(Financial Services Annexes).  
 
2.  
 
The Parties shal  first seek to resolve a dispute described in paragraph  
1  above  through  consultations under  Article  15.3.  The  Parties shal   make  
every effort to reach a mutual y satisfactory resolution through consultation.   
 
3.   
If the Parties fail to resolve a matter pursuant to Article 15.3 within:  
 
(a)   60 days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations;  
 
(b)   
15 days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations  
in matters regarding perishable goods; or  
 
(c)   such other period as they may agree,  
 
a  Party  may  in  writing  refer  the  matter  to  the  Administrative  
Commission  established  under  Article  17.1  (Administrative  
Commission  of  the  Agreement)  which  shal   endeavour  to  resolve  the  
dispute.  
 
 
15 - 2 
 
 
 
 
4.  
 
 
 
 
Good  offices,  conciliation  and  mediation  are  procedures  that  are  
initiated on a voluntary basis if the Parties so agree.  
 
5.  
 
Proceedings involving  good  office,  conciliation  and  mediation,  and  in  
particular the positions of the Parties to the dispute during these proceedings,  
shal  be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of either Party in any  
further proceedings under these procedures.   
 
6.  
 
Good  offices,  conciliation  or  mediation  may  be  requested  at  any  time  
by either Party to a dispute. They may begin at any time and be terminated at  
any time.   
 
7.  
 
If  the  Parties agree,  procedures for  good  offices,  conciliation  or  
mediation  may  continue  while  the  dispute  proceeds  for  resolution  before  an  
arbitral panel appointed under Article 15.6.  
 
 
Article 15.5: Choice of Forum   
 
1.  
 
Disputes regarding any matter arising under this Agreement as wel  as  
the WTO Agreement, any agreement negotiated thereunder, or any successor  
agreement, may be settled in the forum selected by the complaining Party.  
 
2.   
Once  a  Party  has requested  the  establishment  of  an  arbitral  panel  
under Article 15.6 or under the WTO Agreement, the forum selected shal  be  
used  to  the  exclusion  of  the  others.  The  complaining  Party  shal   notify  the  
other  Party  in  writing  of  its intention  to  bring  a  dispute  to  a  particular  forum  
before doing so.  
 
3.  
 
For the purposes of this Article, dispute settlement proceedings under  
Article  15.6  or  Article  6  of  the  Understanding  on  Rules and  Procedures  
Governing the Settlement of Disputes of the WTO Agreement are deemed to  
be initiated upon a request for an arbitral panel by the Party.    
 
 
Article 15.6: Request for an Arbitral Panel  
 
1.  
 
If the Administrative Commission has not resolved a dispute within:  
 
(a)  
75 days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations  
pursuant to Article 15.3;  
 
(b)  
30 days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations  
pursuant to Article 15.3 in a matter regarding perishable goods;  
or   
 
(c)  
such other period as the Parties may agree;  
 
 
 
 
 
15 - 3 
 
 
 
the complaining Party may request, in writing, for the establishment of  
an  arbitral  panel.  The  request  shal   identify  the  specific measure  at  
issue and provide a brief summary of the legal basis of the complaint  
sufficient  to  present  the  problem  clearly.  The  complaining  Party  shal   
deliver the request to the other Party.  
 
2.   
The  Parties shal   establish  an  arbitral  panel  upon  receipt  of  such  a  
request.  
 
3.   
Unless otherwise  agreed  by  the  Parties,  the  arbitral  panel  shal   be  
established  and  perform  its  functions  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  
provisions of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 15.7: Composition of Arbitral Panels 
 
1.  
 
The  arbitral  panel  referred  to  in  Article  15.6  shal   consist  of  three  
members.  Each Party shal  appoint a panelist within 30 days of the receipt of  
the  request  under  Article  15.6.1,  and  the  Parties shal   within  30  days of  the  
appointment  of  the  second  of  them,  designate  by  common  agreement  the  
third  panelist  who  shal   chair  the  arbitral  panel.  The  chair  shal   not  be  a  
national of either Party and shal  not have his or her usual place of residence  
in the territory of either Party.  
 
2.  
 
 If  the  third  panelist  has not  been  designated  within  30  days of  the  
appointment of the second panelist, the Director-General of the World Trade  
Organisation  shal ,  at  the  request  of  either  Party,  appoint  the  chair  of  the  
arbitral panel within a further period of 30 days.   
 
3.  
 
If one of the Parties does not appoint its panelist within 30 days of the  
receipt  of  the  request  under  Article  15.6.1,  the  other  Party  may  inform  the  
Director-General of the WTO who shal  appoint the chair of the arbitral panel  
within  a  further  30  days and  the  chair  shal ,  upon  appointment,  request  the  
Party which has not appointed a panelist to do so within 14 days. If after such  
period, that Party has stil  not appointed a panelist, the chair shal  inform the  
Director-General of the WTO who shal  make this appointment within a further  
30 days.  
 
4.  
 
If a panelist appointed under this Article resigns or becomes unable to  
act,  a  successor  panelist  shal   be  appointed  in  the  same  manner  as  
prescribed for the appointment of the original panelist and the successor shal   
have  al   the  powers and  duties  of  the  original  panelist.  In  such  a  case,  any  
time  period  applicable  to  the  panel  proceeding  shal   be  suspended  for  a  
period beginning on the date the panelist resigns or becomes unable to act,  
and ending on the date the replacement is appointed.  
 
5.  
 
Any person appointed as a member of the arbitral panel:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 - 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  
 
 
 
(a)  
shal   have  expertise  or  experience  in  law,  international  trade,  
other  matters covered  by  this Agreement  or  the  resolution  of  
disputes arising under international trade agreements; and  
 
(b)  
shal   be  chosen  strictly on  the  basis of  objectivity,  reliability,  
sound  judgement and independence
2.   
 
Persons appointed as a member of the arbitral panel shal  comply with  
a Code of Conduct to be established by the Parties by the date of entry into  
force of this Agreement.  
 
 
Article 15.8: Functions of Arbitral Panels 
 
1.  
 
The function of an arbitral panel is to make an objective assessment of  
the dispute before it, including an examination of the facts of the case and the  
applicability  of  and  conformity  with  this Agreement.  The  findings and  
recommendations  of  the  arbitral  panel  shal   be  set  out  in  a  final  report  
presented to the Parties pursuant to Article 15.13.   
 
2.  
 
Findings and recommendations of an arbitral panel shal  not add to or  
diminish the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement.   
 
3.  
 
Arbitral  panels appointed  under  this Chapter  shal   interpret  and  apply 
the  provisions of  this Agreement  in  accordance  with  customary  rules of  
interpretation of public international law.  
 
 
Article 15.9: Rules of Procedure  
 
1.  
 
The  Parties shal   establish  by  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement Model Rules of Procedure, which shal  ensure that:  
 
(a)  
the  right  of  a  hearing  before  the  arbitral  panel  and  the  
opportunity to present al egations and rebuttals in writing; and  
 
(b)  
the hearings before the arbitral panel, the deliberations and the  
preliminary  report,  as 
wel   as 
al   the  writings 
and  
communications presented in be confidential.  
 
2.  
 
Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the arbitral panel shal  conduct the  
proceedings in accordance with the Model Rules of Procedure and may, after  
consulting  the  Parties,  adopt  additional  rules of  procedure  not  inconsistent  
with the model rules, or the provisions of this Chapter.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  For  greater  certainty,  a  person  appointed  as  a  member  of  the  panel  shal   not  be  a  
government official of either Party.  
 
 
15 - 5 
 
 
 
3.  
 
 
 
Unless the  Parties otherwise  agree  within  20  days from  the  date  of  
receipt of the request for the establishment of the arbitral panel, the terms of  
reference shal  be:  
 
“To  examine,  in  the  light  of  the  relevant  provisions of  this  
Agreement,  the  matter  referred  to  in  the  request  for  the  
establishment of an arbitral panel pursuant to Article 15.6, and to  
make findings, determinations and recommendations as provided  
in Article 15.12.2 and to present the written reports referred to in  
Article 15.12 and Article 15.13.”   
 
4.   
If the complaining Party wishes to argue that a matter has nul ified or  
impaired benefits in the sense of Article 15.4.1(b), the terms of reference shal   
so indicate.   
 
5.   
If a Party wishes the arbitral panel to make findings as to the degree of  
adverse  trade  effects on  either  Party  of  any  measure  found  not  to  conform  
with  the  obligations of  the  Agreement  or  to  have  caused  nul ification  or  
impairment  in  the  sense  of  Article  15.4.1(b),  the  terms of  reference  shal   so  
indicate.  
 
6.  
 
7.  
 
The arbitral panel may rule on its own jurisdiction.  
 
An arbitral panel may make its findings and recommendations upon the  
default of a Party.   
 
8.  
 
An  arbitral  panel  shal   make  its decision  by  consensus;  provided  that  
where an arbitral panel is unable to reach consensus it may make its decision  
by  majority  vote.    Panelists may  furnish  separate  opinions on  matters not  
unanimously agreed upon. No arbitral panel may disclose which panelists are  
associated with majority or minority opinions in its initial or final reports.  
 
9.  
 
An  arbitral  panel  shal   meet  in  closed  session.  The  Parties shal   be  
present  at  the  meetings only  when  invited  by  the  arbitral  panel  to  appear  
before it.   
 
10.  
The  panel  hearings,  deliberations,  initial  reports,  al   documents  
submitted  to  and  al   communications with  the  arbitral  panel  shal   be  kept  
confidential.  Nothing  in  this  Article  shal   preclude  a  Party  from  disclosing  
statements of its own positions or its submissions to the public; provided that  
a Party shal  treat as confidential information submitted by the other Party to  
the  arbitral  panel  which  that  Party  has designated  as confidential.  Where  a  
Party  submits a  confidential  version  of  its written  submissions to  the  arbitral  
panel, it shal  also, upon request of the other Party, provide a non-confidential  
summary  of  the  information  contained  in  its submissions that  could  be  
disclosed to the public.   
 
11.  
A Party may disclose to other persons such information in connection  
with the arbitral proceedings as it considers necessary for the preparation of  
 
 
 
 
15 - 6 
 
 
 
the case, but it shal  ensure that those persons maintain the confidentiality of  
any information.   
 
 
Article 15.10: Location of Panel Hearings  
 
The  location  of  the  proceedings of  the  arbitral  panel  shal   be  decided  by  
mutual  agreement  of  the  Parties,  failing  which  shal   alternate  between  the  
capitals of the Parties in alphabetical order.   
 
 
Article 15.11: Role of Experts  
 
On  request  of  a  Party  or  on  its own  initiative,  the  arbitral  panel  may  seek  
information  and  technical  advice  from  any  person  or  body  that  it  deems 
appropriate, provided that the Parties so agree and subject to such terms and  
conditions as the Parties may agree.  
 
 
Article 15.12: Initial Report  
 
1.   
Unless the  Parties otherwise  agree,  the  arbitral  panel  shal   base  its 
report  on  the  relevant  provisions of  the  Agreement,  the  submissions and  
arguments of the Parties, and on any information before it pursuant to Article  
15.11.  
 
2.  
 
 Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the arbitral panel shal , within 90  
days after the last panelist is selected, present to the Parties an initial report  
containing:  
 
(a)   
findings of  fact,  including  any  findings pursuant  to  a  request  
under Article 15.9.5, together with reasons;   
 
(b)  
its determination  as  to  whether  the  measure  at  issue  is 
inconsistent  with  this Agreement  or  cause  nul ification  or   
impairment  in  the  sense  of  Article  15.4.1(b)  or  any  other  
determination requested in the terms of reference; and  
 
(c)   its recommendations, if any, for resolution of the dispute.  
 
3.   
If the arbitral panel considers that it cannot provide its report within 90  
days, it shal  inform the Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together  
with an estimate of the period within which it wil  provide its report. In no case  
should the period to provide the report exceed 120 days.   
 
4.   
A Party may submit written comments to the arbitral panel on its initial  
report within 14 days of presentation of the report or within such other period  
as the  Parties may  agree.  A  copy  of  the  comments submitted  shal   be  
provided to the other Party.  
 
 
 
 
15 - 7 
 
 
 
5.   
After  considering  any  such  written  comments on  the  initial  report,  the  
arbitral  panel,  on  its own  initiative  or  on  the  request  of  either  Party,  may  
request  or  receive  the  views of  a  Party,  reconsider  its  report  and  make  any  
further examination it considers appropriate. 
 
 
Article 15.13: Final Report  
 
1.   
The  arbitral  panel  shal   present  a final  report  to  the  Parties,  including  
any separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, within 45 days of  
presentation of the initial report, unless the Parties otherwise agree.  
 
2.  
 
 The Parties shal  release the final report to the public within 15 days 
thereafter, subject to the protection of confidential information.  
 
 
Article 15.14: Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.    The Parties may agree to suspend the work of the arbitral panel at any  
time for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement. If  
the work of the arbitral panel has been suspended for more than 12 months,  
the  authority  for  establishment  of  the  arbitral  panel  shal   lapse  unless the  
Parties agree otherwise.   
 
2.  
 
The Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings before an arbitral  
panel  at  any  time  by  jointly  notifying  the  chair  of  the  arbitral  panel  to  this  
effect.    
 
 
Article 15.15: Implementation of Final Report   
 
1.   
On the receipt of the final report of an arbitral panel, the Parties shal   
agree on the resolution of the dispute, including the reasonable period of time  
necessary  to  implement  the  resolution  of  the  dispute,  which  normal y  shal   
conform with the determinations and recommendations, if any, of the arbitral  
panel.  
 
2.   
If, in its final report, the arbitral panel determines that a Party has not  
conformed with its obligations under this Agreement or that a disputing Party’s 
measure  is  causing  nul ification  and  impairment  in  the  sense  of  Article  
15.4.1(b),  the  resolution,  whenever  possible,  shal   be  to  eliminate  the  non- 
conformity or the nul ification or impairment.  
 
 
Article  15.16:  Non-Implementation  –  Compensation  and  Suspension  of  
Benefits   
 
1.   
If an arbitral panel has made a determination of the type described in  
Article 15.15.2, and the Parties are unable to reach agreement on a resolution  
pursuant to Article 15.15.1 within 45 days of receiving the final report, or such  
 
 
15 - 8 
 
 
 
other  period  as the  Parties agree,  the  Party  complained  against  shal   enter  
into  negotiations with  the  other  Party  with  a  view  to  developing  mutual y 
acceptable compensation.  
 
2.   
If the Parties:  
 
(a)   are unable to agree on compensation within 30 days after the  
period for developing such compensation has begun; or  
 
(b)   
have  agreed  on  compensation  or  on  a  resolution  pursuant  to  
Article  15.15.1  and  the  complaining  Party  considers that  the  
Party complained against has failed to observe the terms of the  
agreement;   
 
such  complaining  Party  may  at  any  time  thereafter  provide  written  notice  to  
the Party complained against that it intends to suspend the application to the  
Party  complained  against  of  benefits of  equivalent  effect.  The  notice  shal   
specify  the  level  of  benefits that  the  Party  proposes to  suspend
3.  The  
complaining  Party  may  begin  suspending  benefits  30  days after  the  later  of  
the date on which it provides notice under this paragraph or the arbitral panel  
issues its determination under paragraph 3, as the case may be.  
 
3.  
 
 If the Party complained against considers that:  
 
(a)   the  level  of  benefits proposed  to  be  suspended  is manifestly  
excessive; or  
 
(b)   it has eliminated the non-conformity or the nul ification or  
impairment that the arbitral panel has found,  
 
it  may,  within  30  days after  the  complaining  Party  provides notice  under  
paragraph 2, request that the original arbitral panel be reconvened to consider  
the matter. The Party complained against shal  deliver its request in writing to  
the  complaining  Party.  The  arbitral  panel  shal   reconvene,  as  soon  as  
possible,  after  delivery  of  the  request  and  shal   present  its determination  to  
the  disputing  Parties within  90  days after  it  reconvenes to  review  a  request  
under sub-paragraph (a) or (b), but in any case no later than 120 days after  
such request. Where the original arbitral panel cannot hear the matter for any  
reason, a new arbitral panel shal  be appointed pursuant to the procedures set  
out  in  Article  15.7.  If  the  arbitral  panel  determines that  the  level  of  benefits  
proposed to be suspended is manifestly excessive, it shal  determine the level  
of benefits it considers to be of equivalent effect.   
 
4.  
 
 The  complaining  Party  may  suspend  benefits up  to  the  level  the  
arbitral panel has determined under paragraph 3 or, if the arbitral panel has  
 
3 For greater certainty, the phrase “the level of benefits that the Party proposes to suspend”  
refers  to  the  level  of  concessions  under  the  Agreement  the  suspension  of  which  a  
complaining  Party  considers  will  have  an  effect  equivalent  to  that  of  the  disputed  measure  
and  shall  be  restricted  to  benefits  granted  to  the  Party  complained  against  under  this  
Agreement.   
 
 
15 - 9 
 
 
 
not  determined  the  level,  the  level  the  complaining  Party  has proposed  to  
suspend under paragraph 2, unless the arbitral panel has determined that the  
Party complained against has eliminated the non-conformity or the nul ification  
or impairment.  
 
5.  
 
If  the  arbitral  panel  decides that  the  Party  complained  against  has  
eliminated  the  non-conformity  or  the  nul ification  or  impairment,  the  
complaining  Party  shal   promptly  reinstate  any  benefits such  Party  has  
suspended under paragraph 3.  
 
6.   
In considering what benefits to suspend pursuant to paragraph 2:  
 
(a)   
a complaining Party should first seek to suspend benefits in the  
same sector or sectors as that affected by the measure or other  
matter  that  the  arbitral  panel  has found  to  be  inconsistent  with  
the obligations of this Agreement or to have caused nul ification  
or impairment in the sense of Article 15.4.1(b); and  
 
(b)   
a  complaining  Party  that  considers it  is not  practicable  or  
effective to suspend benefits in the same sector or sectors may  
suspend benefits in other sectors.  
 
7.  
 
The  suspension  of  benefits  shal   be  temporary  and  shal   only be  
applied until such time as:  
 
(a)  
the Party removes the  measure  found to be  inconsistent with  
this Agreement;   
 
(b)  
the Party eliminates the nul ification or impairment caused by a  
measure in the sense of Article 15.4.1(b) that the arbitral panel  
has found;  
 
(c)  
the  Party  that  must  implement  the  arbitral  panel’s  
recommendations has done so; or   
 
(d)  
a mutual y satisfactory solution is reached.  
 
 
Article 15.17: Private Rights  
 
No Party may provide for a right of action under its domestic law against the  
other  Party  on  the  ground  that  a  measure  of  the  other 
Party  is inconsistent  
with this Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 - 10  
