 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES UNDER THE  
FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE 
 ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE 
 GOVERNMENTS OF THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF 
 THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN 
 NATIONS AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          
     
 
 
The Governments of  Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic 
of  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People's  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  the  Union  of 
Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom 
of Thailand1  and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member Countries of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations,  and the Republic of Korea, 
 
RECALLING  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive  Economic 
Cooperation among the Governments of the Member Countries of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of Korea (Framework Agreement) signed 
in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on the 13th day of December 2005; 
 
FURTHER  RECALLING Articles 1.3 and 2.2 of the Framework Agreement, 
which reflect their commitment to establish the ASEAN-Korea Free Trade Area 
covering trade in services; 
 
NOTING  the  objectives  of  the  Framework  Agreement  to  enhance  economic 
cooperation  and  deepen  economic  integration  among  them  through  progressive 
liberalisation of trade in services consistent with Article V of the General Agreement 
on Trade in Services (GATS); 
 
REAFFIRMING  their  commitment  to  liberalise  trade  in  services  among  the 
ASEAN Member Countries and the Republic of Korea with substantial sectoral 
coverage, taking into account the sensitive sectors of the Parties, and with special 
and differential treatment to ASEAN Member Countries and additional flexibility 
for the new ASEAN Member Countries of the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of 
Viet Nam;  
 
STRIVING TO enhance cooperation in services among them in order to improve 
efficiency and competitiveness, as well as to diversify the supply and distribution of 
services of the respective service suppliers of the Parties; and 
 
RECOGNISING  the  right  of  the  Parties  to  regulate,  and  to  introduce  new 
regulations, on the supply of services  within their respective territories in order to 
meet national policy objectives and, given asymmetries existing with respect to the 
degree of development of services regulations within the Parties, the particular need 
of the  Parties to exercise this right, 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
 
                                             
 
1  For the purpose of this Agreement, the Kingdom of Thailand is included in the reference of this term 
only after the relevant signature on her behalf has been appended. 
  
 
 
                          
     
  CHAPTER I  
DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE 
 
Article 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  AEM means the Economic Ministers of the ASEAN Member Countries; 
 
(b)  aircraft  repair  and  maintenance  services  means  such  activities  when 
undertaken on an aircraft or a part thereof while it is withdrawn from service 
and do not include so-called line maintenance; 
 
(c)  ASEAN  means  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  comprising 
Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, 
the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the 
Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of 
Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam; 
 
(d)  ASEAN–Korea FTA means the ASEAN-Korea Free Trade Area established 
by the Framework Agreement and other relevant agreements stipulated in 
paragraph 1 of Article 1.4 of the Framework Agreement; 
 
(e)  ASEAN Member Countries means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of 
Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, 
Malaysia,  the  Union  of  Myanmar,  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines,  the 
Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic 
of Viet Nam collectively; 
 
(f)  ASEAN  Member  Country  means  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, 
Malaysia,  the  Union  of  Myanmar,  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines,  the 
Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand or the Socialist Republic of 
Viet Nam individually; 
 
(g)  commercial  presence  means  any  type  of  business    or    professional 
establishment, including through: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
(i)  the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a juridical person; or 
(ii)      the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office,  
 
within the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service; 
 
(h)  computer reservation system (CRS) services means services provided by 
computerised systems that contain information about air carriers’ schedules, 
availability, fares and fare rules, through which reservations can be made or 
tickets may be issued; 
 
(i)  direct  taxes  comprise  all  taxes  on  total  income,  on  total  capital  or  on 
elements of income or of capital, including taxes on gains from the alienation 
of  property,  taxes  on  estates,  inheritances  and  gifts,  and  taxes  on  the  
total amounts of wages or salaries paid  by enterprises, as well as taxes on 
capital appreciation; 
 
(j)  Framework  Agreement  means  the  Framework  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive  Economic  Cooperation  among  the  Governments  of  the 
Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the 
Republic of Korea; 
 
(k)  GATS means the General Agreement on Trade  in Services, contained in 
Annex 1B to the WTO Agreement; 
 
(l)  Implementing Committee means the Implementing Committee established 
under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement; 
 
(m)  juridical person means any legal entity duly  constituted  or  otherwise 
organised under applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether 
privately-owned or governmentally-owned,  including any corporation, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship or association; 
 
(n)  juridical person of another Party means a juridical person which is either: 
 
(i)   constituted or otherwise organised under the law of that other Party, 
and is engaged in substantive business operations in the territory of 
that Party or any other Party; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, 
owned or controlled by: 
 
1.  natural persons of that Party; or 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
2.  juridical  persons  of  that  other  Party  identified  under 
subparagraph (i) 
 
(o)  a juridical person is: 
 
(i)    owned by persons of a Party if more than 50 per cent of the equity 
interest in it is beneficially owned by persons of that Party; 
 
(ii)  controlled by persons of a Party if such  persons have the power to 
name a majority of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its 
actions; 
 
(iii)  affiliated with another person  when it controls, or is controlled by, 
that other person; or when it and the other person are both controlled 
by the same person; 
 
(p)  Korea means the Republic of Korea; 
 
(q)  measure means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, 
regulation,  rule,  procedure,  decision,  administrative  action,  or  any  other 
form; 
 
(r)  measures by Parties means measures taken by:  
  
(i)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers  delegated  by 
central, regional or local governments or authorities; 
 
(s)  measures by Parties affecting trade in services include measures in respect 
of: 
 
(i)  the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
  
(ii)  the access to and use of, in connection with the supply of a service, 
services which are required by the Parties to be offered to the public 
generally;  
  
(iii)     the presence, including commercial presence, of persons of a Party 
for the supply of a service in the territory of  another Party; 
 
(t)  monopoly  supplier  of  a service means any person, public or private, 
which in  the  relevant  market of  the   territory  of  a  Party  is  authorised or                   
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
established formally or in effect by that Party as the sole supplier of  that 
service; 
 
(u)  natural person of another Party means a natural person who resides in the 
territory of  that other Party or elsewhere and who under the law of that  
other Party: 
 
(i)  is a national of that other Party; or 
 
(ii)  has the right of permanent residence2 in that other Party, in the case 
of  a  Party  which  accords  substantially  the  same  treatment  to  its 
permanent residents as it does to its nationals in respect of measures 
affecting  trade  in  services,  as  notified  in  its  acceptance  of  or 
accession to this Agreement provided that no Party is obligated to 
accord to such permanent residents treatment more favourable than 
would be accorded by that other Party to such permanent residents. 
Such notification shall include the assurance to assume, with respect 
to  the  permanent  residents,  in  accordance  with  its  laws  and 
regulations,  the  same  responsibilities  that  other  Party  bears  with 
respect to its nationals; 
 
(v)  new ASEAN Member Countries means the Kingdom of Cambodia, the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam; 
   
(w)  Parties means the ASEAN Member Countries and Korea collectively; 
 
(x)  Party means an ASEAN Member Country or Korea; 
 
(y)  person means either a natural person or a juridical person;  
 
(z)  sector of a service means, 
 
(i)  with  reference  to  a  specific  commitment,  one  or  more,  or  all, 
subsectors of that service, as specified in a Party’s Schedule, 
 
(ii)  otherwise,  the  whole  of  that  service  sector,  including  all  of  its 
subsectors; 
 
(aa)  selling  and  marketing  of  air  transport  services  means  opportunities 
for  the  air   carrier   concerned  to  sell  and  market  freely  its  air  transport  
 
                                             
 
2  The Parties may make reservations with respect to permanent residence in their Schedule under 
this Agreement, provided that those reservations do not prejudice the Parties’ rights and obligations 
in the GATS.  
  
 
 
                          
     
services  including  all  aspects  of  marketing  such  as  market  research, 
advertising and distribution.  These activities do not include the pricing of air 
transport services nor the applicable conditions; 
 
(bb)  services includes any service in any sector except services supplied in the 
exercise of governmental authority; 
 
(cc)  a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means any 
service which is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition 
with one or more service suppliers; 
 
(dd)  service consumer means any person that receives or uses a service; 
 
(ee)  service of another Party means a service which is supplied: 
 
(i)  from or in the territory of  that other  Party, or in the case of maritime 
transport, by a vessel registered under the laws of  that other Party, or 
by a person of  that other Party which supplies the service through the 
operation of a vessel and/or its use in whole or in part; or 
 
(ii)   in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence or 
through the presence of natural persons, by a service supplier of  that 
other Party; 
 
(ff)  service supplier means any person that supplies  a service;3 
 
(gg)  supply of a service includes the production, distribution, marketing, sale and 
delivery of a service;  
 
(hh)  trade in services is defined as the supply of a service: 
 
(i)  from the territory of a Party into the territory of  any other Party; 
 
(ii)  in the territory of a Party to the service consumer of  any other Party; 
 
 (iii)   by a service supplier of a Party, through commercial presence in the 
territory of any other Party;  
 
 
 
                                             
 
3  Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other forms of 
commercial presence such as a branch or a representative office, the service supplier (i.e. the 
juridical person) shall, nonetheless, through such presence be accorded the treatment provided for 
service suppliers under this Agreement. Such treatment shall be extended to the presence through 
which the service is supplied and need not be extended to any other parts of the supplier located 
outside the territory where the service is supplied. 
  
 
 
                          
     
 (iv)   by a service supplier of a Party, through presence of natural persons 
of a Party in the territory of  any other Party;  
 
(ii)  traffic rights means the right for scheduled and non-scheduled services to 
operate and/or to carry passengers, cargo and mail for remuneration or hire 
from, to, within, or over the territory of a Party, including points to be served, 
routes to be operated, types of traffic to be carried, capacity to be provided, 
tariffs to be charged and their conditions, and criteria for designation of 
airlines, including such criteria as number, ownership, and control; 
 
(jj)  WTO means the World Trade Organisation; and 
 
(kk)  WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World 
Trade Organisation, done at Marrakesh on the 15th day of April 1994 and the 
other agreements negotiated thereunder. 
 
 
Article 2 
Scope 
 
1.  This Agreement applies to measures by the Parties affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority within 
the territory of each respective Party; 
  
(b)  measures affecting air traffic rights, however granted; or to measures 
affecting services directly related to the exercise of air traffic rights, 
other than measures affecting: 
 
(i)  aircraft repair and maintenance services; 
(ii)  the selling and marketing of air transport services; and 
(iii)   computer reservation system services; 
 
(c)  cabotage in maritime transport services; and 
 
(d)  measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the employment 
market of a Party and measures regarding citizenship, residence or 
employment on a permanent basis. 
 
3.       Article   19,   Article   20   and   Article   23   of   this   Agreement   shall   
not   apply   to   laws,  regulations  or  requirements  governing  the  procurement  by  
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
governmental agencies of services purchased for governmental purposes and not 
with a view to commercial resale or with a view to use in the supply of services for 
commercial sale. 
 
4.    Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from applying measures to 
regulate the entry of natural persons of the other Parties into, or their temporary stay 
in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to 
ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across its borders, provided that 
such measures are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits4 
accruing to the other Parties under the terms of a specific commitment.  
 
 
CHAPTER II 
 OBLIGATIONS AND DISCIPLINES   
 
Article 3  
Regional and Local Government  
 
In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under this Agreement, each Party shall 
ensure their observance by regional and local governments and authorities in its 
territory as well as their observance by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities within its 
territory. 
 
 
Article 4  
Transparency 
 
1.     Each Party shall publish promptly and, except in emergency situations, at the 
latest  by  the  time  of  their  entry  into  force,  all  relevant  measures  of  general 
application which pertain to or affect the operation of this Agreement.  International 
agreements pertaining to or affecting trade in services to which a Party is a signatory 
shall also be published. 
 
2.     Where publication  as referred  to in paragraph 1 is not practicable, such 
information shall be made otherwise publicly available. 
 
3.     Each    Party    shall    promptly    and    at    least    annually    inform    the 
Implementing  Committee  of  the  introduction  of  any   new,   or   any   changes  to  
 
 
                                             
 
4  The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of certain Parties and not for those of others 
shall not be regarded as nullifying or impairing benefits under a specific commitment. 
 
  
  
 
 
                          
     
existing, laws, regulations or administrative guidelines which significantly affect 
trade in services covered by its specific commitments under this Agreement. 
 
4.   Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by any other Party for 
specific information on any of its measures of general application or international 
agreements within the meaning of paragraph 1.  Each Party shall also establish one 
or more enquiry points to provide specific information to other Parties, upon request, 
on all such  matters as well  as those subject to the notification requirement in 
paragraph 3.  Such enquiry points shall be established within two years from the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement.  Appropriate flexibility with respect to 
the time-limit within which such enquiry points are to be established may be agreed 
upon  for  individual  developing  country  Parties.    Enquiry  points  need  not  be 
depositories of laws and regulations. 
 
5.     Any Party may notify to the Implementing Committee any measure, taken by 
any other Party, which it considers affects the operation of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 5 
Disclosure of Confidential Information  
 
Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  require  any  Party  to  provide  confidential 
information, the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement, or otherwise 
be contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice legitimate commercial 
interests of particular enterprises, public or private. 
 
 
Article 6  
Domestic Regulation  
  
1.    In  sectors  where  specific  commitments  are  undertaken, each  Party  shall 
ensure  that  all  measures  of  general  application  affecting  trade  in  services  are 
administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.  (a)  Each Party shall maintain or institute as soon as practicable judicial, 
arbitral or administrative tribunals or procedures which provide, at 
the request of an affected service supplier, for the prompt review of, 
and  where  justified,  appropriate  remedies  for,  administrative 
decisions affecting trade in services.  Where such procedures are not 
independent of the agency entrusted with the administrative decision 
concerned, the Party shall ensure that the procedures in fact provide 
for an objective and impartial review. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
  (b)  The    provisions   of   subparagraph   (a)   shall   not   be   construed 
to require  a Party to  institute   such tribunals or procedures where  
this would  be inconsistent with its constitutional structure or the 
nature of its legal system. 
 
3.  Where authorisation is required for the supply of a service on which a 
specific commitment has been made, the competent authorities of a Party shall, 
within a reasonable period of time after the submission of an application considered 
complete under domestic laws and regulations, inform the applicant of the decision 
concerning  the  application.    At  the  request  of  the  applicant,  the  competent 
authorities of the Party shall provide, without undue delay, information concerning 
the status of the application. 
 
4.  With a view to ensuring that measures relating to qualification requirements 
and procedures, technical standards and licencing requirements do not constitute 
unnecessary barriers to trade in services, the Implementing Committee shall, through 
appropriate  bodies  it  may  establish,  develop  any  necessary  disciplines.    Such 
disciplines shall aim to ensure that such requirements are, inter alia: 
 
(a)  based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and 
the ability to  supply the service; 
 
(b)  not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the 
service; 
 
(c)  in the case of licencing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on 
the supply of the service. 
 
5.  (a)  In sectors in which a Party has undertaken specific commitments, 
pending the entry into force of disciplines developed in these sectors 
pursuant to paragraph 4, the  Party shall not apply licencing and 
qualification  requirements  and  technical  standards  that  nullify  or 
impair such specific commitments in a manner which: 
 
(i)  does  not  comply  with  the  criteria  outlined  in 
subparagraphs 4(a), (b) or (c);  and 
 
(ii)  could not reasonably have been expected of that Party at the 
time the specific commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
  (b)  In   determining   whether   a   Party is   in   conformity   with the 
obligation   under    paragraph  5(a),   account    shall   be   taken     of  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
    international  standards  of  relevant  international  organisations5 
applied by that Party. 
 
6.  In sectors where specific commitments regarding professional services are 
undertaken,  each  Party  shall  provide  for  adequate  procedures  to  verify  the 
competence of professionals of any other Party. 
 
 
Article 7 
Recognition 
 
1.  For the purposes of fulfillment of their respective standards or criteria for the 
authorisation,  licencing  or  certification  of  services  suppliers,  each  Party  may 
recognise the education or experience obtained, requirements met, or licences or 
certifications granted in another Party.  Such recognition, which may be achieved 
through  harmonisation  or  otherwise,  may  be  based  upon  an  agreement  or 
arrangement  between  the  Parties  or  the  relevant  competent  bodies  or  may  be 
accorded autonomously. 
 
2.  A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type referred to 
in paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for 
other  interested  Parties  to  negotiate  their  accession  to  such  an  agreement    or 
arrangement  or  to  negotiate  comparable  ones  with  it.  Where  a  Party  accords 
recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for any other Party to 
demonstrate  that  education,  experience,  licences,  or  certifications  obtained  or 
requirements met in that other Party’s territory should be recognised.  
 
3.  A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner which would constitute a 
means of discrimination between countries in the application of its standards or 
criteria for the authorisation, licencing or certification of services suppliers, or a 
disguised restriction on trade in services. 
 
4.  Each Party shall endeavour: 
 
(a)  within 12 months from the date on which this Agreement takes effect 
for  it,  to  inform  the  Implementing  Committee  of  its  existing 
recognition measures and state whether such measures are based on 
agreements or arrangements of the type referred to in paragraph 1;   
 
(b)  to promptly   inform   the   Implementing   Committee   as   far   in 
advance   as   possible   of   the   opening   of    negotiations    on    an  
 
                                             
 
5  The term “relevant international organisations” refers to international bodies whose membership is 
open to the relevant bodies of at least all Members of the WTO. 
  
 
 
                          
     
  agreement or arrangement of the type referred to in paragraph 1 in 
order to provide adequate opportunity to any other Party to indicate 
their interest in participating in the negotiations before they enter a 
substantive phase;  
 
(c)  to promptly inform the Implementing Committee when it adopts new 
recognition measures or significantly modifies existing ones and state 
whether the measures are based on an agreement or arrangement of 
the type referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
5.   Wherever appropriate, recognition should be based on multilaterally agreed 
criteria.    In  appropriate  cases,  Parties  shall  work  in  cooperation  with  relevant 
intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations towards the establishment 
and adoption of common international standards and criteria for recognition and 
common international standards for the practice of relevant services trades and 
professions.   
 
 
Article 8 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  any  monopoly  supplier  of  a  service  in  its 
territory does not, in the supply of the monopoly service in the relevant market, act 
in a manner inconsistent with that Party’s obligations under Article 19 and Article 
20.  
 
2.  Where a Party’s monopoly supplier competes, either directly or through an 
affiliated company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of its monopoly 
rights and which is subject to that Party's specific commitments, the Party shall 
ensure that such a supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in its territory 
in a manner inconsistent with such commitments. 
 
3.  If any Party has a reason to believe that a monopoly supplier of a service of 
any other Party is acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 1 or 2, that Party 
may request the Party establishing,  maintaining or authorising such supplier to 
provide specific information concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4.  The provisions of this Article shall also apply to cases of exclusive service 
suppliers, where a Party, formally or in effect,   
 
(a)   authorises or establishes a small number of service suppliers; and  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
(b)   substantially  prevents  competition  among  those  suppliers  in  its 
territory. 
 
5.  If,  after  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement,  a  Party  grants 
monopoly  rights  regarding  the  supply  of  a  service  covered  by  its  specific 
commitments, that Party shall notify the Implementing Committee no later than 
three months before the intended implementation of the grant of monopoly rights 
and the provisions of paragraphs 1(b) (other than the three-year restriction), 2, 3, 4, 
and 5  of  Article 25 shall apply.  
 
 
Article 9 
Business Practices 
 
1.  Parties recognise that certain business practices of service suppliers, other 
than those falling under Article 8, may restrain competition and thereby restrict trade 
in services.  
 
2.  Each Party shall, at the request of any other Party (the “Requesting Party”), 
enter into consultations with a view to eliminating practices referred to in paragraph 
1.  The Party addressed (the “Requested Party”), shall accord full and sympathetic 
consideration to such a request and shall cooperate through the supply of publicly 
available non-confidential information of relevance to the matter in question.  The 
Requested Party shall also provide other information available to the Requesting 
Party, subject to its domestic law and to the conclusion of satisfactory agreement 
concerning the safeguarding of its confidentiality by the Requesting Party. 
 
 
Article 10 
Safeguards 
 
1.  The Parties note the multilateral negotiations pursuant to Article X of the 
GATS on the question of emergency safeguard measures based on the principles of 
non-discrimination.    Upon  the  conclusion  of  such  multilateral  negotiations,  the 
Parties shall conduct a review for the purpose of discussing appropriate amendments 
to this Agreement so as to incorporate the results of the multilateral negotiations. 
 
2.  In    the   event   that   the   implementation   of   this   Agreement   causes 
substantial   adverse   impact   to   a   service   sector   of   a   Party   before the 
conclusion   of   the   multilateral   negotiations   referred   to   in   paragraph   1,   
the   affected   Party   may   request for   consultations   with   the   other   Party   for 
the   purposes   of discussing any measure with respect to the affected service sector.  
Any   measure taken   pursuant to this paragraph   shall be mutually agreed by the 
Parties    concerned.   The    Parties    concerned    shall   take   into   account        the  
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
circumstances of the particular case and give sympathetic consideration to the Party 
seeking to take a measure.  
 
Article 11 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1.  Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 12, a Party shall not 
apply restrictions on international transfers and payments for current transactions 
relating to its specific commitments. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of any Party 
who  is  a  member  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  under  the  Articles  of 
Agreement  of  the  Fund,  including  the  use  of  exchange  actions  which  are  in 
conformity with the Articles of Agreement, provided that a Party shall not impose 
restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments 
regarding such transactions, except under Article 12 or at the request of the Fund. 
 
 
Article 12 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
1.  Where a Party is in serious balance of payments and  external financial 
difficulties  or  threat  thereof,  it  may  adopt  or  maintain  restrictions  on  trade  in 
services in accordance with Article XII of the GATS. 
 
2.  Any restrictions adopted or maintained under paragraph 1, or any changes 
therein, shall be promptly notified to the Implementing Committee. 
 
 
Article 13 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which 
would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between Parties 
where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on trade in services, nothing 
in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any 
Party of measures:  
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order6; 
 
 
 
 
                                             
 
6  The public order exception may be invoked only where a genuine and sufficiently serious threat is 
posed to one of the fundamental interests of society. 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are 
not  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  including 
those relating to: 
 
(i)  the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to deal 
with the effects of a default on services contracts; 
 
(ii)  the protection of the privacy of individuals in relation to the 
processing  and  dissemination  of  personal  data  and  the 
protection  of  confidentiality  of  individual  records  and 
accounts; 
 
(iii)  safety; 
 
(d)  inconsistent with Article 20, provided that the difference in treatment 
is  aimed  at  ensuring  the  equitable  or  effective7 imposition  or 
collection of direct taxes in respect of services or service suppliers of 
other Parties; 
 
(e)  with difference in treatment  provided that it is the result of an 
agreement on the avoidance of double taxation or provisions on the 
avoidance of double taxation in any other international agreement or 
arrangement by which the Party is bound. 
 
 
Article 14 
Security Exceptions 
                                             
 
7  Measures that are aimed at ensuring the equitable or effective imposition or collection of direct taxes 
include measures taken by a Party under  its taxation system which: 
(i)  apply to non-resident service suppliers in recognition of the fact that the tax obligation of 
non-residents is determined with respect to taxable items sourced or located in the Party's 
territory;  or 
(ii)  apply to non-residents in order to ensure the imposition or collection of taxes in the Party's 
territory;  or 
(iii)  apply to non-residents or residents in order to prevent the avoidance or evasion of taxes, 
including compliance measures;  or 
(iv)  apply to consumers of services supplied in or from the territory of another Party in order to 
ensure the imposition or collection of taxes on such consumers derived from sources in the 
Party's territory;  or 
(v)  distinguish service suppliers subject to tax on worldwide taxable items from other service 
suppliers, in recognition of the difference in the nature of the tax base between them;  or 
(vi)  determine, allocate or apportion income, profit, gain, loss, deduction or credit of resident 
persons or branches, or between related persons or branches of the same person, in order 
to safeguard the Party's tax base. 
    Tax terms or concepts in paragraph (d) of Article 13 (General Exceptions) and in this footnote are 
determined according to tax definitions and concepts, or equivalent or similar definitions and 
concepts, under the domestic law of the Party taking the measure.  
 
  
 
 
                          
     
 1.   Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  to require any Party to furnish any information the disclosure of 
which it considers contrary to its essential security interests; or 
 
(b)  to  prevent  any  Party  from  taking  any  action  which  it  considers 
necessary  for  the  protection  of  its  essential  security  interests, 
including but not limited to: 
 
(i)  action relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the 
materials from which they are derived; 
 
(ii)   action relating to the supply of services as carried out directly 
or  indirectly  for  the  purpose  of  provisioning  a  military 
establishment; 
 
(iii)  action taken so as to protect critical public infrastructures 
including communications, power and water infrastructures 
from deliberate attempts intended to disable or degrade such 
infrastructures;  
 
 (iv)  action taken in time of war or other emergency in domestic or 
international relations; or 
 
(c)  to prevent  any Party  from  taking  any  action  in  pursuance of  its 
obligations under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of 
international peace and security. 
 
 2.  The Implementing Committee shall be informed to the fullest extent possible 
of measures taken under paragraphs 1(b) and (c) and of their termination. 
 
 
Article 15 
Subsidies  
 
1.   Except where provided in this Article, this Agreement shall not apply to 
subsidies or grants provided by a Party, or to any conditions attached to the receipt 
or continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such subsidies or 
grants are offered exclusively to domestic services, service consumers or service 
suppliers.  If such subsidies or grants significantly affect trade in services committed 
under this Agreement, any Party may request for consultations with a view to an 
amicable resolution of this matter.  
 
2.  Pursuant to this Agreement, the Parties shall:  
 
  
 
 
                          
     
(a)  on  request,  provide  information  on  subsidies  related  to  trade  in 
services committed under this Agreement to any requesting Party; 
and 
 
(b)  review  the  treatment  of  subsidies  when  relevant  disciplines  are 
developed by the WTO. 
 
 
 Article 16 
WTO Disciplines 
 
Subject to any future agreements as may be agreed pursuant to reviews of this 
Agreement by the Parties under Article 26, the Parties hereby agree and reaffirm 
their commitments to abide by the provisions of the WTO Agreement as are relevant 
and applicable to trade in services.  
 
 
Article 17 
Cooperation 
 
The Parties shall strengthen cooperation efforts in services sectors, including sectors 
mutually agreed upon by the Parties. 
 
 
Article 18 
Increasing Participation of new ASEAN Member Countries 
 
The increasing participation of new ASEAN Member Countries on trade in services 
shall be facilitated through negotiated specific commitments, relating to: 
 
(a)  the  strengthening  of  their  domestic  services  capacity  and  its 
efficiency  and  competitiveness,  inter  alia  through  access  to 
technology on a commercial basis; 
 
(b)  the  improvement  of  their  access  to  distribution  channels  and 
information networks;  
 
(c)  the liberalisation of market access in sectors and modes of supply of 
export interest to them; and  
 
(d)  flexibility for new ASEAN Member Countries for opening fewer 
sectors,  liberalising  fewer  types  of  transactions  and  progressively 
extending market access in line with their respective development 
situation. 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
CHAPTER III 
 SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  
 
Article 19 
Market Access 
 
1.  With respect to market access through the modes of supply identified in 
Article 1(hh), a Party shall accord services and service suppliers of any other Party 
treatment no less favourable than that provided for under the terms, limitations and 
conditions agreed and specified in its Schedule.8 
 
2.  In sectors where market-access commitments are undertaken, the measures 
which  a  Party  shall  not  maintain  or  adopt  either  on  the  basis  of  a  regional 
subdivision or on the basis of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in its 
Schedule, are defined as: 
 
(a)  limitations on the number of service suppliers whether in the form of 
numerical  quotas,  monopolies,  exclusive  service  suppliers  or  the 
requirements of an economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the 
form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs 
test; 
 
(c)  limitations on the total number of service operations or on the total 
quantity of service output expressed in terms of designated numerical 
units in the form of quotas or the requirement of an economic needs 
test;9 
 
(d)  limitations  on  the  total  number  of  natural  persons  that  may  be 
employed in a particular service sector or that a service supplier may 
employ and who are necessary for, and directly related to, the supply 
of  a  specific  service  in  the  form  of  numerical  quotas  or  the 
requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
 
 
 
                                             
 
8  If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to the supply of a service through the 
mode of supply referred to in Article 1(hh)(i) and if the cross-border movement of capital is an 
essential part of the service itself, that Party is thereby committed to allow such movement of capital.  
If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to the supply of a service through the 
mode of supply referred to in Article 1(hh)(iii), it is thereby committed to allow related transfers of 
capital into its territory. 
 
9   Subparagraph 2(c) does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of services. 
  
 
 
                          
     
(e)  measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or 
joint venture through which a service supplier may supply a service;  
and 
 
(f)  limitations  on  the  participation  of  foreign  capital  in  terms  of 
maximum percentage limit on foreign shareholding or the total value 
of individual or aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
Article 20 
National Treatment 
 
1.  In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule, and subject to any conditions and 
qualifications  set  out  therein,  each  Party  shall  accord  to  services  and  service 
suppliers of any other Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of 
services, treatment no less favourable than that it accords to its own like services and 
service suppliers.10 
 
2.  A Party may meet the requirement of paragraph 1 by according to services 
and service suppliers of any other Party, either formally identical  treatment or 
formally different treatment to that it accords to its own like services and service 
suppliers. 
 
3.  Formally identical or formally different treatment shall be considered to be 
less favourable if it modifies the conditions of competition in favour of services or 
service suppliers of the Party compared to like services or service suppliers of any 
other Party. 
 
 
Article 21 
Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to measures affecting trade in 
services not subject to scheduling under Article 19 or Article 20, including those 
regarding qualifications, standards or licencing matters.  Such commitments shall be 
inscribed in a Party’s Schedule. 
 
 
Article 22 
Schedules of Specific Commitments 
 
                                             
 
10  Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require any Party to 
compensate for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result from the foreign character of 
 
the relevant services or service suppliers.
  
 
 
                          
     
1.  Each Party shall set out in a schedule the specific commitments it undertakes 
under Article 19, Article 20 and Article 21.  With respect to sectors where such 
commitments are undertaken, each Schedule shall specify: 
 
(a)  terms, limitations and conditions on market access; 
 
(b)  conditions and qualifications on national treatment; 
 
(c)  undertakings relating to additional commitments;  
 
(d)  where  appropriate  the  time-frame  for  implementation  of  such 
commitments; and 
 
(e)  the date of entry into force of such commitments. 
 
2.  Measures  inconsistent  with  Article  19  shall  be  inscribed  in  the  column 
relating to Article 19, and measures inconsistent with Article 20 shall be inscribed in 
the column relating to Article 20. 
 
3.  The Schedules shall be annexed to this Agreement and shall form an integral 
part thereof. 
 
 
Article 23 
Application and Extension of Commitments   
 
1.  Korea shall make a single schedule of specific commitments under Article 22 
and shall apply this Schedule to all ASEAN Member Countries. 
 
2.  Each ASEAN Member Country shall make its individual schedule of specific 
commitments under Article 22 and shall apply this Schedule to Korea and the rest of 
the ASEAN Member Countries. 
 
 
Article 24 
 Progressive Liberalisation 
 
The Parties shall, at the reviews pursuant to Article 26, enter into successive rounds 
of negotiations to negotiate further packages of specific commitments under this 
Agreement so as to progressively liberalise trade in services between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 25 
Modification of Schedules  
 
  
 
 
                          
     
1.  A Party may modify or withdraw any commitment in its Schedule, at any 
time after three years  have elapsed from the date on which that commitment has 
entered into force, provided that: 
 
(a)  it notifies the Parties as well as  the Implementing Committee of its 
intention to modify or withdraw a commitment no later than three 
months  before  the  intended  date  of  implementation  of  the 
modification or withdrawal; and 
 
(b)  it enters into negotiations with any affected Party to agree to the 
necessary compensatory adjustment. 
 
2.  In achieving a compensatory adjustment, Parties shall ensure that the general 
level of mutually advantageous commitment is not less favourable to trade than 
provided for in the Schedules prior to such negotiations. 
 
3.  Any compensatory adjustment pursuant to this Article shall be accorded on a 
non-discriminatory basis to all Parties. 
 
4.  If  the  Parties  concerned  are  unable  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the 
compensatory  adjustment,  the  matter  shall  be  resolved  by  arbitration11.  The 
modifying Party may not modify or withdraw its commitment until it has made 
compensatory adjustments in conformity with the findings of the arbitration.  
 
5.  If the modifying Party implements its proposed modification or withdrawal 
and does not comply with the findings of the arbitration, any Party that participated 
in  the  arbitration  may  modify  or  withdraw  substantially  equivalent  benefits  in 
conformity with those findings. Notwithstanding Article 23, such a modification or 
withdrawal may be implemented solely with respect to the modifying Party. 
 
 
CHAPTER IV  
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 26 
Review 
 
The    AEM   and   the   Minister   for   Trade   of   Korea   or   their   designated 
representatives  shall   meet   within   a   year   of   the date of entry into force of this  
 
 
 
 
                                             
 
11   The Implementing Committee shall establish procedures for arbitration in due course. 
  
 
 
                          
     
Agreement and then biennially or otherwise as appropriate to review this Agreement 
for the purpose of considering further measures to liberalise trade in services as well 
as develop disciplines and negotiate agreements on matters referred to in Article 16 
or any other relevant matters as may be agreed.   
 
 
Article 27  
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
1.  This Agreement shall include the Annexes and the contents therein which 
shall form an integral part of this Agreement; and all future legal instruments agreed 
pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
2.    The  Annex  on  Financial  Services  shall  form  an  integral  part  of  this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  The GATS Annex on Telecommunications shall be incorporated into this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
4.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement or any 
action taken under it shall not affect or nullify the rights and obligations of a Party 
under the existing agreements to which it is a party. 
 
5.  ASEAN Member Countries may enter into individual bilateral arrangements 
with Korea concerning co-production of broadcasting programs pursuant to this 
Agreement, and such bilateral arrangements shall apply to the said Parties only. 
 
 
Article 28 
Amendments 
 
This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by the Parties, and such 
amendments shall enter into force on such date or dates as may be agreed by the 
Parties. 
 
 
Article 29 
Dispute Settlement 
 
Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  any  dispute  concerning  the 
interpretation, implementation or application of this Agreement shall be resolved 
through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute 
Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
Article 30 
Denial of Benefits  
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  to the supply of a service, if it establishes that the service is supplied 
from or in the territory of a non-Party; 
 
(b)   in  the  case  of  the  supply  of  a  maritime  transport  service,  if  it 
establishes that the service is supplied: 
 
(i)   by a vessel registered under the laws of a non-Party, and 
 
(ii)   by a person of a non-Party which operates and/or uses the 
vessel in whole or in part;  
 
 (c)  to a service supplier that is a juridical person, if it establishes that it is 
not a service supplier of another Party. 
  
 
Article 31 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month 
following the latter date on which at least one ASEAN Member Country and Korea 
have notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal 
procedures. 
 
2.  A Party shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry 
into force of this Agreement, notify all the other Parties in writing. 
 
3.  Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into 
force of this Agreement by the date as set out in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall 
come into force for that Party 30 days after the date on which the Party has notified 
all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures. The Party 
concerned,  however,  shall  be  bound  by the  same  terms  and  conditions  of  this 
Agreement, including any further commitments that may have been undertaken by 
the other Parties under this Agreement by the time of such notification, as if it had 
notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures 
before the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 32 
Depositary 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Agreement shall be deposited with the 
Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, 
to each ASEAN Member Country. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised thereto, have 
signed the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement on 
Comprehensive  Economic  Cooperation  among  Governments  of  the  Member 
Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations12 and the Republic of 
Korea. 
 
DONE in Singapore, this 21st day of November 2007, in duplicate copies in the 
English language. 
 
 
For the Government of Brunei Darussalam: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIM JOCK SENG 
Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
 
 
For the Royal Government of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                             
 
12 The Parties agree that the Kingdom of Thailand may sign this Agreement at a later date upon the 
completion of her parliamentary procedure. 
  
 
 
                          
     
For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
For the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
 
For the Government of Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RAFIDAH AZIZ 
Minister of International Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning and Economic Development 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                          
     
For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
 
For the Government of the Republic of Korea: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KIM JONG-HOON 
Minister for Trade 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 