 
Chapter 10 
Trade in Services 
 
 
Article 10.1: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
cross-border supply of services or cross-border trade in services 
means the supply of a service:  
 
(a)  from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other 
Party; 
 
(b)  in the territory of a Party by a person of that Party to a 
person of the other Party; or  
 
(c)  by a national of a Party in the territory of the other Party;  
 
but does not include the supply of a service in the territory of a Party by 
an investor of the other Party or an investment of an investor of the 
other Party as defined in Article 11.1 (Definitions); 
 
enterprise  means  any  legal  entity  constituted  or  organized  under 
applicable  law,  whether  or  not  for  profit,  and  whether  privately  or 
governmentally owned, including a corporation, trust, partnership, sole 
proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar organization and a 
branch of an enterprise; 
 
enterprise of a Party means an enterprise organized or constituted 
under the laws of a Party and a branch located in the territory of a 
Party and carrying out business operations there; 
 
monopoly supplier of a service means any person, public or private, 
which in the relevant market of the territory of a Party is authorized or 
established formally or in effect by that Party as the sole supplier of 
that service; 
 
services includes any service in any sector except services supplied in 
the exercise of governmental authority; 
 
service consumer means any person that receives or uses a service; 
 
service of the other Party means a service which is supplied: 
 
(a)  from or in the territory of the other Party, or in the case of 
maritime transport, by a vessel registered under the laws 
of the other Party, or by a person of the other Party which 
6 5 
 supplies  the  service  through  the  operation of  a  vessel 
and/or its use in whole or in part; or 
 
(b)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial 
presence or through the presence of natural persons, by 
a service supplier of the other Party; 
 
service supplier of a Party means a person of that Party that seeks to 
supply or supplies a service10; and 
 
supply of a service includes the production, distribution, marketing, 
sale and delivery of a service. 
 
 
Article 10.2: Scope and Coverage 
 
1.   (a)   This Chapter applies to measures adopted or maintained by a 
Party  affecting  cross-border  trade  in  services  by  service 
suppliers of the other Party. 
 
(b)   Measures  covered  by  subparagraph  (a)  include  measures 
affecting: 
 
i.  the production, distribution, marketing, sale and delivery 
of a service; 
 
ii.  the purchase or use of, or payment for, a service; 
 
iii.  the  access  to  and  use  of  distribution,  transport,  or 
telecommunications networks and services in connection 
with the supply of a service;  
 
iv.  the presence in its territory of a service supplier of the 
other Party; and 
 
v.  the provision of a bond or other form of financial security 
as a condition for the supply of a service. 
 
(c)   For purposes of this Chapter, measures adopted or maintained 
by a Party means measures adopted or maintained by: 
 
i.  central,  regional  or  local  governments  and  authorities; 
and 
 
                                                
10 The Parties understand that for purposes of Article 10.3 (National Treatment), Article 10.4 
(Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), and Article 10.5 (Market Access) of this Agreement, 
“service suppliers” has the same meaning as “services and service suppliers” as used in 
GATS. 
6 6 
 ii.  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers 
delegated  by  central,  regional  or  local  governments  or 
authorities. 
 
2.  Articles  10.5  (Market  Access)  and  10.8  (Domestic  Regulation)  also 
apply to measures by a Party affecting the supply of a service in its territory by 
an investor of the other Party or an investment of an investor of the other 
Party as defined in Article 11.1 (Definitions)11. 
 
3.   This Chapter does not apply to: 
 
(a)  government procurement as defined in Article 8.2 (Definitions) of 
Chapter 8 (Government Procurement); 
 
(b)  air  services12,  including  domestic  and  international  air 
transportation  services,  whether  scheduled or  non-scheduled, 
and related services in support of air services, other than:  
 
i.  aircraft repair and maintenance services; 
 
ii.  the selling and marketing of air transport services; 
 
iii.  computer reservation system (CRS) services; 
 
(c)  subsidies or grants provided by a Party, including government-
supported loans, guarantees and insurance, or to any conditions 
attached to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or 
grants,  whether  or  not  such  subsidies  or  grants  are  offered 
exclusively to domestic services, service consumers or service 
suppliers.  
 
4.   This Chapter does not impose any obligation on a Party with respect to 
a national of the other Party seeking access to its employment market, or 
employed on a permanent basis in its territory, and does not confer any right 
on that national with respect to that access or employment nor shall it apply to 
measures regarding citizenship or residence on a permanent basis.  
 
5.   (a)  This Chapter does not apply to services supplied in the exercise 
of governmental authority in a Party’s territory. 
 
(b)  For purposes of this Chapter, a service supplied in the exercise 
of governmental authority means any service which is supplied 
neither on a commercial basis, nor in competition with one or 
more service suppliers. 
                                                
11 The Parties understand that nothing in this Chapter, including this paragraph, is subject to 
investor-State  dispute  settlement  pursuant  to  Article  11.16  (Investor-State  Dispute 
Settlement) of Chapter 11 (Investment). 
 
12 For greater certainty, the term “air services” includes traffic rights. 
 
6 7 
  
6.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures 
to  regulate  the  entry  of  natural  persons  of  the  other  Party  into,  or  their 
temporary stay in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect 
the  integrity  of,  and  to  ensure  the  orderly  movement  of  natural  persons 
across, its borders, provided that such measures are not applied in such a 
manner as to nullify or impair the benefits accruing to the other Party under 
the terms of this Chapter13.  
 
7.  This  Chapter  shall  not  apply  to  financial  services14.    The  Parties 
reaffirm their commitments under GATS with respect to financial services.  
 
8.  The  rights  and  obligations  of  the  Parties  with  respect  to 
telecommunications services shall be governed by this Chapter and Annex 
10.1 (Telecommunications Services). 
 
 
Article 10.3: National Treatment 
 
  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  service  suppliers  of  the  other  Party 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to its 
own service suppliers. 
 
 
Article 10.4: Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  service  suppliers  of  the  other  Party 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to 
service suppliers of a non-Party. 
 
 
Article 10.5: Market Access 
 
1.  A Party shall not adopt or maintain, either on the basis of a regional 
subdivision or on the basis of its entire territory, measures that: 
 
(a)  impose limitations on: 
 
i.  the number of service suppliers whether in the form of 
numerical  quotas,  monopolies,  exclusive  service 
suppliers or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
                                                
13 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of the other Party shall not be regarded 
as nullifying or impairing benefits under a specific commitment. 
 
14 For purposes of this paragraph, “financial services” is as defined in subparagraph 5 (a) of 
the Annex on Financial Services in GATS. 
 
6 8 
 ii.  the total value of service transactions or assets in the 
form  of  numerical  quotas  or  the  requirement  of  an 
economic needs test; 
 
iii.  the total number of service operations or the total quantity 
of  services  output  expressed  in  terms  of  designated 
numerical units in the form of quotas or the requirement 
of an economic needs test15; 
 
iv.  the  total  number  of  natural  persons  that  may  be 
employed in a particular service sector or that a service 
supplier  may  employ  and  who  are  necessary  for,  and 
directly related to, the supply of a specific service in the 
form  of  numerical  quotas  or  the  requirement  of  an 
economic needs test; and 
 
(b)  restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture 
through which a service supplier may supply a service. 
 
 
Article 10.6: Local Presence 
 
  Neither Party may require a service supplier of the other Party to 
establish or maintain a representative office or any form of enterprise, or to be 
resident, in its territory as a condition for the cross-border supply of a service. 
 
 
Article 10.7: Non-Conforming Measures 
 
1.   Articles  10.3  (National  Treatment),  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment), 10.5 (Market Access), and 10.6 (Local Presence) do not apply to: 
 
(a)  any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a 
Party at: 
 
i.  the central level of government, as set out by that Party in 
its Schedule to Annex I (Non-Conforming Measures); or 
 
ii.  a local level of government; 
 
(b)  the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any  non-conforming 
measure referred to in subparagraph (a); or 
 
(c)  an amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in 
subparagraph (a) to the extent that the amendment does not 
decrease  the  conformity  of  the  measure,  as  it  existed 
immediately before the amendment, with Articles 10.3 (National 
                                                
15 This subparagraph does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of 
services. 
6 9 
 Treatment),  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment),  10.5 
(Market Access), and 10.6 (Local Presence). 
 
2.   Articles  10.3  (National  Treatment),  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment), 10.5 (Market Access), and 10.6 (Local Presence) do not apply to 
any measure that a Party adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-
sectors or activities, as set out in its Schedule to Annex II (Non-Conforming 
Measures). 
 
 
Article 10.8: Domestic Regulation 
 
1.   Where a Party requires authorization for the supply of a service, the 
Party’s competent authorities shall, within a reasonable period of time after 
the submission of an application considered complete under domestic laws 
and  regulations,  inform  the  applicant  of  the  decision  concerning  the 
application.  At the request of the applicant, the competent authorities of the 
Party shall provide, without undue delay, information concerning the status of 
the application.  This obligation shall not apply to authorization requirements 
that are within the scope of Article 10.7.2 (Non-Conforming Measures). 
 
2.   With  a  view  to  ensuring  that  measures  relating  to  qualification 
requirements and procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements 
do not constitute unnecessary barriers to trade in services, each Party shall 
endeavour  to  ensure,  as  appropriate,  for  individual  sectors  that  such 
measures are: 
 
(a)  based  on  objective  and  transparent  criteria,  such  as 
competence and the ability to supply the service; 
 
(b)  not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of 
the service; and 
 
(c)  in  the  case  of  licensing  procedures,  not  in  themselves  a 
restriction on the supply of the service. 
 
3.  If the results of the negotiations related to Article VI.4 of GATS (or the 
results  of  any  similar  negotiations  undertaken  in  other  multilateral  fora  in 
which both Parties participate) enter into effect for both Parties, this Article 
shall be amended, as appropriate, after consultations between the Parties, to 
bring those results into effect under this Agreement.  The Parties agree to 
coordinate on such negotiations, as appropriate. 
 
 
Article 10.9: Recognition 
 
1.  For purposes of the fulfillment, in whole or in part, of its standards or 
criteria for the authorization, licensing or certification of services suppliers, 
and subject to the requirements of paragraph 4, a Party may recognize the 
education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements  met,  or  licenses  or 
7 0 
 certifications granted in a particular country, including the other Party and 
non-Parties.  Such recognition, which may be achieved through harmonization 
or otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or arrangement with the 
country concerned or may be accorded autonomously. 
 
2.   Where  a  Party  recognizes,  autonomously  or  by  agreement  or 
arrangement,  the  education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements  met,  or 
licenses or certifications granted in the territory of a non-Party, nothing in 
Article 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) shall be construed to require 
the Party to accord such recognition to the education or experience obtained, 
requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in the territory of the 
other Party. 
 
3.   A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type 
referred to in paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate 
opportunity for the other Party, if the other Party is interested, to negotiate its 
accession to such an agreement or arrangement or to negotiate comparable 
ones with it.  Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford 
adequate  opportunity  for  the  other  Party  to  demonstrate  that  education, 
experience, licenses, or certifications obtained or requirements met in that 
other Party’s territory should be recognized. 
 
4.  A  Party  shall  not  accord  recognition  in  a  manner  which  would 
constitute a means of discrimination between countries in the application of its 
standards or criteria for the authorization, licensing or certification of services 
suppliers, or a disguised restriction on trade in services. 
 
 
Article 10.10: Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier of a service in its 
territory  does  not,  in  the  supply  of  the  monopoly  service  in  the  relevant 
market,  act  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  that  Party’s  obligations  under 
Articles 10.3 (National Treatment), 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) 
and 10.5 (Market Access). 
 
2.  Where a Party’s monopoly supplier competes, either directly or through 
an affiliated company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of its 
monopoly rights and which is subject to that Party’s obligations under Articles 
10.3 (National Treatment) and 10.5 (Market Access), the Party shall ensure 
that such a supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in its territory 
in a manner inconsistent with such obligations. 
 
3.   If a Party has reason to believe that a monopoly supplier of a service of 
the other Party is acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 1 or 2, it may 
request the other Party establishing, maintaining or authorizing such supplier 
to provide specific information concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4.  The provisions of this Article shall also apply to cases of exclusive 
service suppliers, where a Party, formally or in effect:  
7 1 
  
(a)  authorizes or establishes a small number of service suppliers; 
and 
 
(b)  substantially prevents competition among those suppliers in its 
territory. 
 
 
Article 10.11: Transfers and Payments 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  permit  all  transfers  and  payments  relating  to the 
cross-border supply of services to be made freely and without delay into and 
out of its territory. 
 
2.   Each Party shall permit such transfers and payments relating to the 
cross-border supply of services to be made in a freely usable currency at the 
market rate of exchange prevailing on the date of transfer. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, a Party may prevent or delay a 
transfer or payment through the equitable, non-discriminatory and good faith 
application of its laws relating to:  
   
(a)  bankruptcy,  insolvency  or  the  protection  of  the  rights  of 
creditors; 
 
(b)  issuing,  trading  or  dealing  in  securities,  futures,  options,  or 
derivatives; 
 
(c)  financial  reporting  or  record  keeping  of  transfers  when 
necessary  to  assist  law  enforcement  or  financial  regulatory 
authorities; 
 
(d)  criminal or penal offenses;  
 
(e)  ensuring  compliance  with  orders  or  judgments  in  judicial  or 
administrative proceedings; or 
 
(f)  social  security,  public  retirement  or  compulsory  savings 
schemes. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and obligations of the 
members of the International Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement 
of the Fund, including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity 
with  the  Articles  of  Agreement,  provided  that  a  Party  shall  not  impose 
restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently with its obligations under 
this  Chapter  regarding  such  transactions,  except  under  Article  18.5 
(Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments) or at the request of the 
Fund. 
 
 
7 2 
 Article 10.12: Denial of Benefits 
 
Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party may deny the 
benefits of this Chapter to: 
 
(a)  a service supplier of the other Party if the service supplier is an 
enterprise owned or controlled by persons of a non-Party and 
such enterprise has no substantive business operations in the 
territory of the other Party; or  
 
(b)  a service supplier of the other Party if the service supplier is an 
enterprise owned or controlled by persons of the denying Party 
and such enterprise has no substantive business operations in 
the territory of the other Party. 
 
7 3 
 