 
 
43 
 
Chapter 7 
Trade Remedies 
 
 
Section A: Global Safeguard Measures 
 
 
Article 7.1: Global Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  
Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article XIX of GATT 
1994 and the Safeguards Agreement.  
 
2. 
This Agreement does not confer any additional rights or obligations on 
the Parties with regard to actions taken pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 
and the Safeguards Agreement, except that a Party taking such an action 
shall exclude imports of an originating good from the other Party if such 
imports are not a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof. 
 
3. 
No Party shall apply, with respect to the same good, at the same time: 
 
(a) 
a bilateral safeguard measure; and  
 
(b) 
a measure under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Safeguards 
Agreement. 
 
 
Section B: Bilateral Safeguard Measures 
 
 
Article 7.2: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Section: 
 
domestic industry means, with respect to an imported good, the 
producers as a whole of the like or directly competitive good operating 
within the territory of a Party, or those producers whose collective 
production of the like or directly competitive good constitutes a major 
proportion of the total domestic production of such goods; 
 
safeguard measure means a measure described in Article 7.3 
(Imposition of a Safeguard Measure); 
 
serious injury means a significant overall impairment in the position of 
a domestic industry; 
 
substantial cause means a cause which is important and not less than 
any other cause; 
 
 
 
44 
 threat of serious injury means serious injury that, on the basis of 
facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture, or remote possibility, is 
clearly imminent; and 
 
transition period means the period during which a Party may adopt 
and maintain safeguard measures, and that shall include, for each 
good, the customs duties elimination period set out in Annex 2.1 
(Elimination of Customs Duties) to that good plus an additional period 
of 2 years counted from the end of such customs duties elimination 
period; with the exception of the goods in staging categories C and D, 
for which the transition period will be limited to the customs duties 
elimination period. 
 
 
Article 7.3: Imposition of a Safeguard Measure 
 
1.  
A Party may apply a measure described in paragraph 2, during the 
transition period only, if as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs  
duty pursuant to this Agreement, an originating good is being imported into 
the Party’s territory in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative 
to domestic production, and under such conditions as to constitute a 
substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to a domestic industry 
producing a like or directly competitive good.  
 
2. 
If the conditions in paragraph 1 are met, a Party may to the extent 
necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury, or threat thereof, and facilitate 
adjustment: 
 
(a) 
suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty on the 
good provided for under this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
increase the rate of customs duty on the good to a level not to 
exceed the lesser of: 
 
i. 
the most-favoured-nation (MFN) applied rate of duty on 
the good in effect at the time the action is taken; and 
 
ii. 
the MFN applied rate of duty on the good in effect on the 
day immediately preceding the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement7
 
. 
3. 
Neither Party may maintain a safeguard measure: 
 
(a) 
for a period exceeding 2 years; except that the period may be 
extended by up to 1 year if the competent authorities determine 
that the safeguard measure continues to be necessary to 
                                                
7 The Parties understand that neither tariff rate quotas nor quantitative restrictions would be a 
permissible form of safeguard measure. 
 
 
45 
prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment and 
that there is evidence that the industry is adjusting; 
 
(b) 
beyond the expiration of the transition period, except with the 
consent of the other Party.  
 
4. 
On the termination of a safeguard measure, the rate of duty shall be 
the customs duty set out in Annex 2.1 (Elimination of Customs Duties) as if 
the safeguard measure had never been applied. 
 
 
Article 7.4: Investigation Procedures and Transparency Requirement 
 
1.  
A Party shall apply a safeguard measure only following an investigation 
by the Party’s competent investigating authority in accordance with Articles 3 
and 4.2(c) of the Safeguards Agreement; and to this end, Articles 3 and 4.2(c) 
of the Safeguards Agreement are incorporated into and made part of this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  
In determining whether increased imports of an originating good of the 
other Party have caused serious injury or are threatening to cause serious 
injury to a domestic industry, the competent investigating authority of the 
importing Party shall follow the rules in Article 4.2(a) and (b) of the 
Safeguards Agreement; and to this end, Articles 4.2(a) and (b) of the 
Safeguards Agreement are incorporated into and made part of this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 7.5: Provisional Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  
In critical circumstances, where delay would cause damage which 
would be difficult to repair, a Party may apply a provisional safeguard 
measure pursuant to a preliminary determination that there is clear evidence 
that the increased imports have caused, or are threatening to cause, serious 
injury to a domestic industry. 
 
2. 
The duration of the provisional safeguard measure shall not exceed 
200 days, during which period the pertinent requirements of Article 7.3 
(Imposition of a Safeguard Measure) and 7.4 (Investigation Procedures and 
Transparency Requirement) shall be met.  The provisional safeguard 
measure shall adopt any of the forms set out in Article 7.3 (Imposition of a 
Safeguard Measure) of this Section.  The guarantees or the received funds 
arising from the imposition of a provisional safeguard measure shall be 
promptly released or refunded as it corresponds, when the investigation does 
not determine that increased imports have caused, or threaten to cause, 
serious injury to a domestic industry.  The duration of any such provisional 
safeguard measure shall be counted as a part of the initial period and any 
extension of a definitive safeguard measure. 
 
 
 
 
46 
Article 7.6: Notification and Consultations 
 
1.  
A Party shall promptly notify the other Party, in writing, when: 
 
(a) 
initiating an investigation under this Section; 
 
(b) 
applying a provisional measure; and  
 
(c) 
adopting the determination to apply or extend a safeguard 
measure. 
 
2.  
On request of a Party whose good is subject to a safeguard 
investigation under this Chapter, the Party conducting that investigation shall 
enter into consultations with the other Party to review a notification under 
paragraph 1, or any public notice or report that the competent investigating 
authority has issued in connection with the investigation. 
 
3.  
Consultations may be held in person or by any technological means 
available to the Parties.  In the event that the Parties decide to hold 
consultations in person, these shall be held in the place agreed by the Parties, 
or if there is no agreement, in the capital of the requested Party.  
 
 
Article 7.7: Compensation and Suspension of Concessions 
 
1. 
A Party applying a safeguard measure shall, in consultation with the 
other Party, provide mutually-agreed trade liberalizing compensation in the 
form of concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or equivalent 
to the value of the additional duties expected to result from the measure.  The 
Party applying the safeguard measure shall provide opportunity for such 
consultations no later than 30 days after the application of the safeguard 
measure. 
 
2.  
If the Parties are unable to reach agreement on compensation within 
30 days of the commencement of consultations, the exporting Party may 
suspend the application of substantially equivalent concessions to the trade of 
the Party applying the safeguard measure. 
 
3.  
The exporting Party shall notify the other Party in writing at least 30 
days before suspending concessions under paragraph 2. 
 
 
Section C: Antidumping, Subsidies and Countervailing Measures 
 
 
Article 7.8: General Provision 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the Parties retain their 
rights and obligations under Articles VI and XVI of GATT 1994, the WTO 
Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994, the WTO 
 
 
47 
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and the WTO 
Agreement on Agriculture.  
 
 
Article 7.9: Agricultural Export Subsidies 
 
 
Neither Party may introduce or maintain any export subsidy on any 
agricultural good destined for the territory of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 7.10: Transparency and Legal Certainty 
 
1.  
The Parties agree that investigations and impositions of antidumping 
and countervailing measures shall be based on a fair and transparent system. 
 
2. 
The Parties agree to observe the following practices in antidumping 
and countervailing measures cases between them: 
 
(a) 
immediately following the receipt of a properly documented 
application from an industry in one Party for the initiation of an 
antidumping or countervailing measure investigation in respect 
of goods from the other Party, the Party that has received the 
properly documented application shall immediately notify the 
other Party of the receipt of the application;  
 
(b) 
when the authorities are satisfied that there is sufficient 
evidence to justify the initiation of an investigation, they shall 
notify it to the other Party and to other interested parties at least 
7 working days in advance of the date of initiation of such 
investigation; 
 
(c) 
a Party’s investigating authority shall take due account of any 
difficulties experienced by exporters of the other Party in 
supplying information requested and provide any assistance 
practicable.  On request of an exporter of the other Party, a 
Party’s investigating authority shall make available the 
timeframes, procedures and any documents necessary for the 
offering of an undertaking. 
 
 
Article 7.11: Lesser Duty Rule 
 
 
Should a Party decide to impose an antidumping duty, the amount of 
such duty shall not exceed the margin of dumping, but it shall be less than the 
margin of dumping if such lesser duty would be adequate to remove the injury 
to the domestic industry.  
 
 
 
48 
Article 7.12: Consideration of Public Interest 
 
 
Antidumping or countervailing measures may not be applied by a Party 
where, on the basis of the information made available during the investigation, 
it can clearly be concluded that it is not in the public interest to apply such 
measures.  Public interest shall take into account the situation of the domestic 
industry, importers and their representative associations, representative users 
and representative consumer organizations, to the extent they have provided 
relevant information to the investigating authorities. 
 
 
Article 7.13: Prohibition of Zeroing8
 
 
 
When determining dumping margins, the Parties shall ensure that the 
practice of zeroing is not used in any of the stages included in an antidumping 
investigation, including the reviews listed in Articles 9 and 11 of the WTO 
Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994.  
                                                
8 The term “zeroing” shall be understood as the practice of converting to zero the negative 
dumping margins, obtained for one or several types of goods, when calculating the margin of 
dumping of the investigated good. 
