 
 
31 
 
Chapter 5  
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
 
Article 5.1: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a) 
protect human, animal, or plant life or health in the territory of 
the Parties, and to provide a framework to address any sanitary 
and phytosanitary (SPS) bilateral matters so as to facilitate and 
increase trade between the Parties; 
 
(b) 
uphold and enhance the implementation of the SPS Agreement 
and 
applicable 
international 
standards, 
guidelines 
and 
recommendations 
developed 
by 
relevant 
international 
organizations; and 
 
(c) 
strengthen cooperation between the Parties’ competent SPS 
authorities having responsibility for matters covered by this 
Chapter and to deepen mutual understanding of each Party’s 
regulations and procedures. 
 
 
Article 5.2: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
the definitions in Annex A of the SPS Agreement and the 
definitions provided in the glossary of harmonized terms of the 
relevant international organizations shall apply to this Chapter; 
and 
 
(b) 
relevant 
international 
organizations 
refers 
to 
the 
organizations mentioned in the SPS Agreement, namely 
International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC), Codex 
Alimentarius (Codex) and World Organization for Animal Health 
(OIE). 
 
 
Article 5.3: Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  
This Chapter applies to all SPS measures that may, directly or 
indirectly, affect trade between the Parties. 
 
2.  
This Chapter does not apply to standards, technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures as defined in the TBT Agreement which 
are covered by Chapter 6 (Technical Barriers to Trade) of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
32 
 
Article 5.4: General Provisions 
 
1.  
The Parties reaffirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to 
each other under the SPS Agreement. 
 
2.  
The Parties recognize and apply the decisions on the application of the 
SPS Agreement adopted by the WTO Committee on Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Measures (WTO SPS Committee). 
 
 
Article 5.5: Trade Facilitation 
 
1.  
The Parties shall cooperate and jointly identify work in the field of SPS 
measures with a view to facilitating trade between the Parties.  In particular, 
the Parties shall seek to identify initiatives that are appropriate for particular 
issues or sectors.  Such initiatives may include cooperation on regulatory 
issues, such as unilateral recognition of equivalence, harmonization or other 
cooperative arrangements. 
 
2.  
At the request of a Party, the other Party shall give favourable 
consideration to any sector-specific proposal that the former Party makes for 
consideration under this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 5.6: Transparency 
 
1.  
The Parties affirm their obligations on the transparency provisions set 
out in the SPS Agreement, as well as the relevant decisions of the WTO SPS 
Committee. 
 
2.  
The importing Party shall notify to the exporting Party through the 
relevant competent SPS authority, within a reasonable period of time, the 
information regarding serious non-compliance of SPS requirements and which 
results in rejection by the importing Party. 
 
 
Article 5.7: SPS Coordinators 
 
1.  
To facilitate the implementation of this Chapter and cooperation 
between the Parties, each Party shall designate a SPS Coordinator, who shall 
be responsible for coordinating with competent SPS authorities in the Party’s 
territory and communicating with the other Party’s SPS Coordinator on all 
matters pertaining to this Chapter.  The SPS Coordinators’ functions shall 
include, among others: 
 
(a) 
monitoring the implementation and administration of this 
Chapter; 
 
 
 
33 
(b) 
enhancing communication between the Parties’ competent SPS 
authorities and shall seek to facilitate a Party’s response to 
written requests for information from the other Party in print or 
electronically without undue delay, and in any case within 30 
days after the date of receipt of the request, at no cost or at 
reasonable cost; 
 
(c) 
facilitating information exchange so as to enhance mutual 
understanding of each Party’s SPS measures and the regulatory 
processes that relate to those measures and their impact on 
trade in goods between the Parties; 
 
(d) 
promptly addressing any bilateral SPS issue that a Party raises, 
so as to enhance cooperation and consultation between the 
Parties and facilitate trade between them;  
 
(e) 
promoting the use of international standards by both Parties in 
their respective adoption and application of SPS measures; 
 
(f) 
reviewing progress on addressing SPS matters that may arise 
between the Parties’ competent SPS authorities; and 
 
(g) 
without prejudice to Article 16.1 (The Free Trade Commission), 
convening, as necessary and appropriate, an ad hoc technical 
working group for addressing requests for technical clarification 
with the objective of identifying practical and workable solutions 
that would facilitate trade.  Both Parties shall endeavour to 
convene the ad hoc technical working group without undue 
delay. 
 
2.  
The SPS Coordinators shall normally carry out their functions through 
agreed communication channels such as telephone, facsimile, email; 
whichever is most expedient in the discharge of their functions. 
 
3.  
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, in technical issues like notifications of 
interceptions, risk assessments or others, the contact between the competent 
SPS authorities can be made directly, with due communication to the SPS 
Coordinators.  
 
 
Article 5.8: Technical Cooperation 
 
The Parties agree to explore opportunities for future cooperation and 
collaboration on SPS matters of mutual benefit, which may include training 
and exchange visits.  Such activities shall be mutually agreed upon and 
subject to the availability of resources. 
 
 
 
34 
Article 5.9: Final Provisions 
 
1.  
Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the authority of a Party to determine 
the level of protection it considers necessary for the protection of, inter alia, 
human health or safety, animal or plant life or health.  In pursuance of this, 
each Party retains all authority to interpret its laws, regulations and 
administrative provisions. 
 
2.  
For purposes of this Chapter, the competent authorities are: 
 
(a) 
in the case of Costa Rica: 
 
Dirección de Aplicación de Acuerdos Comerciales 
Internacionales (“DAACI”) 
Ministerio de Comercio Exterior 
(Directorate for the Application of International Trade 
Agreements, Ministry of Foreign Trade)  
Address: 1st and 3rd Avenue, 40th Street, Paseo Colón,  
San José. 
Tel: (506) 22 99 47 00 
Fax: (506) 22 56 84 89 
P.O. Box: 297-1007 Centro Colón 
E-mail: daaci@comex.go.cr 
Web: www.comex.go.cr 
 
Dirección General de Salud Animal 
Servicio Nacional de Salud Animal (“SENASA”) 
Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería 
(Directorate-General of Animal Heath, 
National Service of Animal Health, 
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock) 
Address: Campus Universidad Nacional, Lagunilla, Heredia. 
Tel: (506) 22 62 02 21 
Fax: (506) 22 62 02 21 
P.O. Box: 3-3006 CENADA, Heredia 
E-mail: infoepidemiologica@senasa.go.cr 
Web: www.senasa.go.cr 
 
Dirección Ejecutiva 
Servicio Fitosanitario del Estado (“SFE”) 
Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería 
(Executive Directorate, 
State Phytosanitary Service, 
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock) 
Address: Campus Universidad Nacional, Lagunilla, Heredia. 
Tel: (506) 22 60 61 90 
Fax: (506) 22 60 83 01 
P.O. Box: 70-3006 Barreal de Heredia 
E-mail: direccion@sfe.go.cr / centroinfo@sfe.go.cr 
Web: www.sfe.go.cr 
 
 
35 
 
Dirección de Regulación de la Salud 
Ministerio de Salud 
(Directorate of Health Regulation, 
Ministry of Health) 
Address: 6th and 8th Avenue, 16th Street, San José. 
Tel: (506) 22 58 67 65 
Fax: (506) 22 55 45 12 
P.O. Box: 10123-1000 San José 
E-mail: infosalud@netsalud.sa.cr 
Web: www.ministeriodesalud.sa.cr 
 
(b) 
in the case of Singapore: 
 
Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore 
Address: 5 Maxwell Road # 04-00, Tower Block MND Complex 
Singapore 069110, Republic of Singapore 
Tel: (65) 6222 1211 
Fax: (65) 6220 6068 
E-mail: AVA_email@ava.gov.sg  
Web: www.ava.gov.sg  
 
or their successors. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Article 5.7 (SPS Coordinators), the SPS Coordinators 
shall be:  
 
(a) 
in the case of Costa Rica: 
 
Dirección de Aplicación de Acuerdos Comerciales 
Internacionales (“DAACI”) 
Ministerio de Comercio Exterior 
(Directorate for the Application of International Trade 
Agreements, Ministry of Foreign Trade)  
Address: 1st and 3rd Avenue, 40th Street, Paseo Colón,  
San José. 
Tel: (506) 22 99 47 00 
Fax: (506) 22 56 84 89 
P.O. Box: 297-1007 Centro Colón 
E-mail: daaci@comex.go.cr 
Web: www.comex.go.cr 
 
(b) 
in the case of Singapore: 
 
Ministry of Trade and Industry 
Trade Division 
Address: 100 High Street # 09-01, The Treasury 
Singapore 179434, Republic of Singapore 
Tel: (65) 6225 9911 
Fax: (65) 6332 7260 
 
 
36 
E-mail: mti_fta@mti.gov.sg  
Web: www.mti.gov.sg  
 
or their successors or designated contact points. 
 
