 
Chapter 2 
Trade in Goods 
 
 
Article 2.1: Scope and Coverage 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter applies to 
trade in goods between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 2.2: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
advertising  films  and  recordings  means  recorded  audio/visual  or 
audio media designed to advertise or promote goods or services by 
any person having an established business or resident in the territory 
of a Party, excluding such media for broadcast to the general public; 
 
commercial samples of negligible value means commercial samples 
having a value, individually or in the aggregate as shipped, of not more 
than one U.S. dollar, or the equivalent amount in the currency of the 
other Party, or so marked, torn, perforated, or otherwise treated that 
they are unsuitable for sale or for use except as commercial samples; 
 
consular  transactions  means  requirements  that  goods  of  a  Party 
intended for export to the territory of the importing Party must first be 
submitted to the supervision of the consul of the importing Party in the 
territory of the exporting Party for the purpose of obtaining consular 
invoices  or  consular  visas  for  commercial  invoices,  certifications  of 
origin, manifests, shippers’ export declarations, or any other customs 
documentation required on or in connection with importation; 
 
duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
goods  intended  for  display  or  demonstration  includes  their 
component parts, ancillary apparatus, and accessories; 
 
goods admitted for sports purposes means sports equipment for 
use in sports contests, events, or training in the territory of the Party 
into whose territory such goods are admitted; and 
 
printed  advertising  materials  means  those  goods  classified  in 
chapter 49 of the Harmonized System, including brochures, pamphlets, 
leaflets,  trade  catalogues,  yearbooks  of  trade  associations,  tourist 
promotional materials, and posters, that are used to promote, publicize, 
or advertise a good or service, are essentially intended to advertise a 
good or service, and are supplied free of charge. 
 
6  
  
Article 2.3: National Treatment 
 
1.   Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other 
Party in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994. 
 
2.   To this end, Article III of GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes are 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 2.4: Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
1.  The provisions of this Chapter concerning the elimination of customs 
duties  on imports  shall  apply  to  goods  originating in  the  territories  of  the 
Parties. 
 
2.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  each  Party  shall 
eliminate its customs duties on originating goods in accordance with Annex 
2.1 (Elimination of Customs Duties). 
 
3.  During the customs duties elimination process, the Parties shall apply 
to originating goods traded between them, the lesser of the customs duties 
resulting from a comparison between the rates established in accordance with 
Annex 2.1 (Elimination of Customs Duties) and the existing rate pursuant to 
Article II of GATT 1994. 
 
4.  Each Party shall not increase an existing customs duty, introduce a 
new customs duty or impose an additional customs duty to that determined 
under paragraph 2, on the importation of originating goods. 
 
5.  Each Party shall refrain from applying any measure that reduces or 
nullifies the commitments of this Chapter. 
 
6.  The tariff classification of goods in trade between the Parties shall be 
governed  by  the  national  nomenclature  of  each  Party,  which  shall  be 
consistent with the Harmonized System. 
 
 
Article 2.5: Accelerated Customs Duties Elimination 
 
1.  On  the  request  of  a  Party,  the  Parties  shall  consult  to  consider 
accelerating the elimination of customs duties on originating goods as set out 
in Annex 2.1 (Elimination of Customs Duties). 
 
2.  An agreement by the Parties to accelerate the elimination of customs 
duties  on  originating  goods  shall  enter  into  force  after  the  Parties  have 
exchanged written notifications informing that they have completed necessary 
internal  legal  procedures  and  on  such  date  or  dates  as  may  be  agreed 
between them. 
 
7  
 3.  A  Party  may  at  any  time  accelerate  unilaterally  the  elimination  of 
customs duties on originating goods of the other Party set out in Annex 2.1 
(Elimination of Customs Duties).  A Party considering doing so shall inform 
the other Party as early as possible.  
 
 
Article 2.6: Export Taxes 
 
A Party shall not adopt or maintain any duty, tax or other charge on the 
exportation of goods to the territory of the other Party, except as provided in 
Annex 2.2 (Export Taxes). 
 
 
Article 2.7: Customs Valuation 
 
The  Parties  shall  determine  the  customs  value  of  goods  traded 
between them in accordance with the provisions of Article VII of GATT 1994 
and the Customs Valuation Agreement. 
 
 
Article 2.8: Administrative Fees and Formalities 
 
Each  Party  shall  ensure, in  accordance  with  Article  VIII.1  of GATT 
1994, that all fees and charges of whatever character (other than customs 
duties, charges equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article 
III.2  of  GATT  1994,  and  antidumping  and  countervailing  duties  imposed 
pursuant to a Party’s domestic law and consistently with Chapter 7 (Trade 
Remedies)) imposed on or in connection with import or export are limited in 
amount to the approximate cost of services rendered and do not represent an 
indirect protection to domestic goods or a taxation on imports or exports for 
fiscal purposes. 
 
 
Article 2.9: Consular Fees 
 
1.  Neither Party shall require consular transactions, including related fees 
and charges, in connection with the importation of any good of the other 
Party. 
 
2.  Each Party shall make available and maintain through the Internet a 
current list of the fees and charges it imposes in connection with importation 
or exportation. 
 
 
Article 2.10: Temporary Admission of Goods 
 
1.  With the exception of liquor and tobacco products, each Party shall 
grant duty-free temporary admission for the following goods, regardless of 
their origin, imported by or for the use of a national or resident of the other 
Party: 
8  
  
(a)  professional equipment,  including  equipment  for  the press  or 
television,  software,  and  broadcasting  and  cinematographic 
equipment,  necessary  for  carrying  out  the  business  activity, 
trade,  or  profession  of  a  person  who  qualifies  for  temporary 
entry pursuant to the laws of the importing Party; 
 
(b)  goods intended for display or demonstration; 
 
(c)  commercial samples and advertising films and recordings; and 
 
(d)  goods admitted for sports purposes. 
 
2.  Each Party, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons its 
customs authority considers valid, shall extend the time limit for temporary 
admission beyond the period initially fixed. 
 
3.  Neither Party shall condition the duty-free temporary admission of a 
good referred to in paragraph 1, other than to require that such good: 
 
(a)  be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national 
or resident of the other Party in the exercise of the business 
activity, trade, profession, or sport of that person; 
 
(b)  not be sold or leased or consumed while in its territory; 
 
(c)  be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the 
charges  that  would  otherwise  be  owed  on  entry  or  final 
importation, releasable upon exportation of the good; 
 
(d)  be capable of identification when admitted and exported; 
 
(e)  be  exported  on  the  departure  of  the  person  referenced  in 
subparagraph (a), or within such other period that is reasonably 
related to the purpose of the temporary admission, as the Party 
may establish; 
 
(f)  be  admitted in  no  greater  quantity  than is reasonable  for its 
intended use; and 
 
(g)  be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its law. 
 
4.  If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 3 has not been 
fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that 
would normally be owed on the final importation of the good plus any other 
charges or penalties provided for under its domestic law. 
 
5.  Each  Party,  through  its  customs  authority,  shall  adopt  procedures 
providing for the expeditious release of goods admitted under this Article.  To 
the extent possible, such procedures shall provide that when such a good 
9  
 accompanies  a  national  or  resident  of  the  other  Party  who  is  seeking 
temporary entry, the good shall be released simultaneously with the entry of 
that national or resident. 
 
6.  Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article 
to be exported through a customs port other than that through which it was 
admitted. 
 
7.  Each Party shall provide that its customs authority or other competent 
authority relieve the importer or other person responsible for a good admitted 
under  this  Article  from  any  liability  for  failure  to  export  the  good  on 
presentation of satisfactory proof to the importing Party’s customs authority 
that the good has been destroyed within the original period fixed for temporary 
admission or any lawful extension. 
 
 
Article 2.11: Goods Re-entered After Repair or Alteration 
 
1.  Neither Party shall apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its 
origin, that re-enters its territory after that good has been temporarily exported 
from its territory to the territory of the other Party for repair or alteration, 
regardless of whether such repair or alteration could be performed in the 
territory of the Party from which the good was exported for repair or alteration. 
 
2.  A Party shall not apply a customs duty to a good regardless of its 
origin, imported temporarily from the territory of the other Party for repair or 
alteration. 
 
3.  For purposes of this Article, repair or alteration does not include an 
operation or process that: 
 
(a)  destroys a good’s essential characteristics or creates a new or 
commercially different good; or 
 
(b)  transforms an unfinished good into a finished good. 
 
 
Article 2.12: Duty-Free Entry of Commercial Samples of Negligible Value 
and Printed Advertising Materials 
 
With the exception of liquor and tobacco products, each Party shall 
grant duty-free entry to commercial samples of negligible value, and to printed 
advertising materials, imported from the territory of the other Party, regardless 
of their origin, but may require that: 
 
(a)  such samples be imported solely for the solicitation of orders for 
goods or services provided from the territory of the other Party 
or a non-Party; or 
 
1 0 
 (b)  such advertising materials be imported in packages that each 
contain no more than one copy of each such material and that 
neither  such  materials  nor  packages  form  part  of  a  larger 
consignment. 
 
 
Article 2.13: Import and Export Restrictions 
 
1.  Neither  Party  shall  adopt  or  maintain  any  non-tariff  measures  that 
prohibit or restrict the importation of any good of the other Party or on the 
exportation of any good destined for the territory of the other Party, except in 
accordance with its WTO rights and obligations, or in accordance with other 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that such measures are not adopted or applied 
with a view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to trade 
between the Parties. 
1 1 
 