 
 
 
Annex 10.1 - 1 
Annex 10.1  
Telecommunications Services1
 
 
 
This 
Annex 
sets 
out 
the 
regulatory 
principles 
applicable 
to 
telecommunications services, other than the cable or broadcast distribution of 
radio or television programming2
 
. 
Nothing in this Annex shall be construed:  
 
(a) 
to require a Party to authorize a service supplier of the other Party 
to establish, construct, acquire, lease, operate, or supply 
telecommunications services, other than as provided for in this 
Agreement subject to each Party’s Annexes I and II (Non-
Conforming Measures); or  
 
(b) 
to require a Party (or to require a Party to oblige service suppliers 
in its territory) to establish, construct, acquire, lease, operate or 
supply telecommunications services not offered to the public 
generally. 
 
 
1.  
Universal Service 
 
Each Party shall have the right to define the kind of universal service 
obligations it wishes to maintain. Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-
competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-
discriminatory, and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome 
than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Party. 
 
 
2. 
Independence of Regulatory Authority 
 
Each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory authority 
is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of telecommunications 
services. Each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory 
authority is authorized to impose effective sanctions to enforce domestic 
measures relating to the obligations set out in this Annex. The decisions and the 
procedures of the regulatory authority shall be impartial with respect to all 
market participants.  
 
 
                                         
1 “Telecommunications services” includes both public telecommunications transport networks 
and public telecommunications transport services. For Costa Rica, the terms “public 
telecommunications transport networks” or “public telecommunications transport services” are 
referred to as “public telecommunications networks” or “telecommunications services available 
to the public”, respectively. 
 
2 For greater certainty, this Annex does not create market access rights or obligations. 
 
 
 
 
Annex 10.1 - 2 
3. 
Transparency 
 
Each Party shall make publicly available all licensing or authorization 
criteria and procedures required for suppliers of public telecommunications 
networks or of telecommunications services available to the public, including the 
period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application 
for a license or authorization, and the terms and conditions of all licenses or 
authorizations issued. The reasons for the denial of a license or authorization 
will be made known to the applicant upon request. 
 
Each Party shall also make publicly available the rulemakings of its 
telecommunications regulatory authority, the end-user tariffs filed with its 
telecommunications regulatory authority, and the conditions affecting access to 
and use of public telecommunications networks or telecommunications services 
available to the public. 
 
 
4. 
Allocation and Use of Scarce Resources 
 
Each Party shall ensure that procedures for the allocation and use of 
scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers, and rights of way, are 
administered in an objective, timely, transparent, and non-discriminatory 
manner by a competent domestic authority3
 
. 
Each Party shall make publicly available the current state of allocated 
frequency bands, but shall not be required to provide detailed identification of 
frequencies allocated for specific government uses. 
 
 
5. 
Interconnection 
 
(a) 
Each Party shall ensure that any major supplier in its territory 
provides 
interconnection 
for 
suppliers 
of 
public 
telecommunications networks or of telecommunications services 
available to the public of the other Party at any technically feasible 
point in the major supplier’s network. Such interconnection shall 
be provided in accordance with the respective domestic laws: 
 
i. 
under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including 
technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a 
quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like 
services or for like services of non-affiliated service 
suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
 
ii. 
in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical 
standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that 
are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic 
                                         
3 The competent domestic authority shall be separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier 
of telecommunications services. 
 
 
 
 
Annex 10.1 - 3 
feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that a supplier 
need not pay for network components or facilities that it 
does not require for the service to be provided; and 
 
iii. 
upon request, at points in addition to the network 
termination points offered to the majority of users, subject 
to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary 
additional facilities. 
 
(b) 
Each Party shall ensure that applicable procedures for 
interconnection to a major supplier, their interconnection 
agreements and their referenced interconnection offers are made 
publicly available. 
 
(c) 
Each Party shall ensure that a service supplier requesting 
interconnection with a major supplier has recourse to an 
independent domestic body4
 
, which may be the regulatory 
authority referred to in paragraph 2, to resolve disputes regarding 
appropriate terms, conditions, and rates for interconnection, within 
a reasonable time. 
 
6.  
Access to and Use of the Network 
 
(a) 
Each Party shall ensure that enterprises of the other Party have 
access to and use of any public telecommunications networks or 
telecommunications services available to the public, including 
leased circuits, offered in its territory or across its borders, on 
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, and are 
permitted to: 
 
i. 
purchase or lease and attach terminal or other equipment 
that interfaces with a public telecommunications network; 
 
ii. 
provide services to individual or multiple end-users over 
leased or owned circuits; 
 
iii. 
connect 
owned 
or 
leased 
circuits 
with 
public 
telecommunications 
networks 
or 
telecommunications 
services available to the public in its territory, or across its 
borders or with circuits leased or owned by another person; 
 
iv. 
perform switching, signaling, processing, and conversion 
functions, and use operating protocols of their choice; and 
 
v. 
use 
public 
telecommunications 
networks 
or 
telecommunications services available to the public for the 
                                         
4 The independent domestic body shall be separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier 
of telecommunications services. 
 
 
 
 
Annex 10.1 - 4 
movement of information contained in databases or 
otherwise stored in machine-readable form in the territory of 
any Party. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding subparagraph (a), a Party may take such 
measures as are necessary to ensure the security and 
confidentiality of messages or to protect the privacy of non-public 
personal data of subscribers to telecommunications services 
available to the public, subject to the requirement that such 
measures are not applied in a manner that would constitute a 
means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination or disguised 
restriction on trade in services.  
 
(c) 
Each Party shall ensure that no condition is imposed on access to 
and 
use 
of 
public 
telecommunications 
networks 
or 
telecommunications services available to the public, other than 
that necessary to safeguard the public service responsibilities of 
suppliers 
of 
public 
telecommunications 
networks 
or 
telecommunications services available to the public, in particular 
their ability to make their networks or services available to the 
public generally, or protect the technical integrity of public 
telecommunications networks or telecommunications services 
available to the public. 
 
(d) 
Provided that they satisfy the criteria set out in subparagraph (c), 
conditions for access to and use of public telecommunications 
networks and telecommunications services available to the public 
may include: 
 
i. 
requirements, where necessary, for the inter-operability of 
such services;  
 
ii. 
type approval of terminal or other equipment which 
interfaces with the network and technical requirements 
relating to the attachment of such equipment to such 
networks; or 
 
iii. 
 notification, registration and licensing.  
 
7. 
Competition 
 
Each Party shall maintain appropriate measures for the purpose of 
preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging 
in or continuing anti-competitive practices, such as engaging in anti-competitive 
cross-subsidiation; using information obtained from competitors with anti-
competitive results; and not making available, on a timely basis, to suppliers of 
public telecommunications networks or telecommunications services available 
to the public, technical information about essential facilities and commercially 
relevant 
information 
that 
is 
necessary 
for 
them 
to 
provide 
public 
 
 
 
Annex 10.1 - 5 
telecommunications networks or telecommunications services available to the 
public. 
 
 
8. 
Submarine Cable Systems 
 
Each Party shall ensure reasonable and non-discriminatory treatment for 
access to submarine cable systems (including landing facilities) in its territory, 
where a supplier is authorized to operate such submarine cable system as a 
telecommunications service available to the public. 
 
 
9. 
Flexibility in the Choice of Technologies 
 
A Party may not prevent suppliers of public telecommunications networks 
or telecommunications services available to the public from having the flexibility 
to choose the technologies that they use to supply their services, subject to the 
ability of each Party to take measures to ensure that end-users of different 
networks are able to communicate with each other and requirements necessary 
to satisfy legitimate public policy interests. 
 
 
10. 
Relationship to Other Chapters 
 
In the event of inconsistency between this Annex and any Chapter, this 
Annex shall prevail to the extent of such inconsistency. 
 
 
 
 
