 
Annex I 
Non-Conforming Measures 
Schedule of Costa Rica 
 
 
Explanatory Note 
 
 
1.  The Schedule of a Party of this Annex sets out, pursuant to Article 10.7 
(Non-Conforming  Measures)  of  Chapter  10  (Trade  in  Services)  and  Article 
11.13 (Non-Conforming Measures) of Chapter 11 (Investment), the reservations 
taken by a Party with respect to measures that do not conform to some or all of 
the obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article  10.3  (National  Treatment)  of  Chapter  10  (Trade  in 
Services)  or  Article  11.4  (National  Treatment)  of  Chapter  11 
(Investment); 
 
(b)  Article  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  of  Chapter  10 
(Trade  in  Services)  or  Article  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment) of Chapter 11 (Investment); 
 
(c)  Article 10.5 (Market Access) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services); 
 
(d)  Article 10.6 (Local Presence) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services); 
 
(e)  Article  11.8  (Performance  Requirements)  of  Chapter  11 
(Investment); or  
 
(f)  Article  11.12  (Senior  Management  and  Board  of  Directors)  of 
Chapter 11 (Investment). 
 
2.  Each reservation in a Party’s Schedule sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector in which the reservation is made; 
 
(b)  Obligations Concerned specifies the obligation(s) referred to in 
paragraph  1  that,  pursuant  to  Article  10.7  (Non-Conforming 
Measures) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services) and Article 11.13 
(Non-Conforming Measures) of Chapter 11 (Investment), do not 
apply to listed measure(s); 
 
(c)  Measures identify the laws, regulations, or other measures for 
which the reservation is made.  A measure cited in the Measures 
element: 
 
i.  means the measure as amended, continued, or renewed as 
of the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and 
 
Annex I - CR - 1 
  
ii.  includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained 
under the authority of and consistent with the measure; and 
 
(d)  Description  sets  out  a  general  description  of  the  Measures 
element.  
 
3.  In the interpretation of a reservation, all elements of the reservation shall 
be considered.  The Measures element shall prevail over all other elements, 
unless  any  inconsistency  between  the  Measures  element  and  the  other 
elements considered in their totality is so substantial and material that it would 
be unreasonable to conclude that the Measures element should prevail, in 
which case the other elements shall prevail to the extent of that inconsistency. 
 
4.  In accordance with Article 10.7 (Non-Conforming Measures) of Chapter 
10  (Trade  in  Services)  and  Article  11.13  (Non-Conforming  Measures)  of 
Chapter  11  (Investment),  the  Articles  of  this  Agreement  specified  in  the 
Obligations Concerned element of a reservation do not apply to the laws, 
regulations,  or  other  measures  identified  in  the  Measures  element  of  that 
reservation. 
 
5.  Where a Party maintains a measure that requires that a service supplier 
be a citizen, permanent resident, or resident of its territory as a condition to the 
supply of a service in its territory, a reservation for that measure taken with 
respect  to  Article  10.3  (National  Treatment),  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment), or 10.6 (Local Presence) shall operate as a reservation with respect 
to Article 11.4 (National Treatment), 11.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), or 
11.8 (Performance Requirements) to the extent of that measure. 
 
6.  For  greater  certainty,  Article  10.5  (Market  Access)  refers  to  non-
discriminatory measures. 
Annex I - CR - 2 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 3 
  
 
                                                
1 The maritime-terrestrial zone is the 200-meter strip located along the entire length of the 
Atlantic and Pacific coast lines of Costa Rica, measured horizontally from the ordinary high tide 
line.  The maritime-terrestrial  zone  also  covers  all  islands  located  within  the  Costa  Rican 
territorial waters. 
Annex I - CR - 4 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 5 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 6 
  
Annex I - CR - 7 
  
Annex I - CR - 8 
  
Annex I - CR - 9 
  
Annex I - CR - 10 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 11 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 12 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 13 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 14 
  
 
                                                
2  “Bioprospecting”  includes  the  systematic  search,  classification,  and  investigation,  for 
commercial  purposes,  of  new  sources  of  chemical  compounds,  genes,  proteins, 
microorganisms, and other products with real or potential economic value found in biodiversity. 
 
3 “Biodiversity” includes the variability of live organisms of any source, found in land, air, marine, 
aquatic, or other ecological ecosystems, as well as the diversity within each species and 
between species and the ecosystems of which they are a part.  Biodiversity also includes 
intangible elements such as: the knowledge, innovation, and individual or collective traditional 
practice,  with  real  or  potential  economic  value,  associated  with  genetic  and  bio-chemical 
resources protected or not by intellectual property rights or sui generis registry systems. 
Annex I - CR - 15 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 16 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 17 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 18 
  
 
Annex I - CR - 19 
  
 
 
Annex I - CR - 20 
 