 
Chapter 15 
Transparency 
 
 
Article 15.1: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
administrative ruling of general application means an administrative 
ruling or interpretation that applies to all persons and fact situations that 
fall generally within its ambit and that establishes a norm of conduct but 
does not include: 
 
(a)  a  determination  or  ruling  made  in  an  administrative 
proceeding that applies to a particular person, good, or 
service of the other Party in a specific case; or 
 
(b)  a ruling that adjudicates with respect to a particular act or 
practice. 
 
 
Article 15.2: Contact Points 
 
1.   Each Party shall designate, within 60 days of the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement, a contact point to facilitate communications between 
the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement. 
 
2.   On the request of the other Party, the contact point shall identify the 
office  or  official  responsible  for  the  matter  and  assist,  as  necessary,  in 
facilitating communication with the requesting Party. 
 
3.   Any information, request or notification provided under this Chapter 
shall  be  provided  to  the  other  Party  through  the  contact  point,  unless 
otherwise  established  in  this  Agreement  or  subsequently  agreed  by  the 
Parties. 
 
 
Article 15.3: Publication 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  laws,  regulations,  procedures  and 
administrative rulings of general application respecting any matter covered by 
this Agreement are promptly published or otherwise made available in such a 
manner  as  to  enable  the  other  Party  and  interested  persons  to  become 
acquainted with them. 
 
2.   To the extent possible, each Party shall publish in advance any law 
that it proposes to adopt. 
 
 
10 5 
 Article 15.4: Notification and Provision of Information 
 
1.   To the maximum extent possible, each Party shall notify the other Party 
of any actual measure that the Party considers might materially affect the 
operation of this Agreement or otherwise substantially affect that other Party’s 
interests under this Agreement. 
 
2.   On request of the other Party, a Party shall promptly and at no cost, 
provide  information  and  respond  to  questions  pertaining  to  any  actual  or 
proposed  measure,  whether  or  not  the  other  Party  has  been  previously 
notified of that measure. 
 
3.   Any  notification  or  information  provided  under  this  Article  shall  be 
without  prejudice  as  to  whether  the  measure  is  consistent  with  this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 15.5: Administrative Proceedings 
 
With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial, and reasonable 
manner all measures of general application affecting matters covered by this 
Agreement referred to in Article 15.3 (Publication), each Party shall ensure, in 
its administrative proceedings applying such measures to particular persons, 
goods, or services of the other Party in specific cases, that: 
 
(a)  wherever possible, persons of the other Party that are directly 
affected  by  a  proceeding  are  provided  reasonable  notice,  in 
accordance  with  domestic  procedures,  when  a  proceeding is 
initiated; such notice shall include a description of the nature of 
the proceeding, a statement of the legal authority under which 
the  proceeding  is  initiated,  and  a  general  description  of  any 
issues in controversy; 
 
(b)  such persons are afforded a reasonable opportunity to present 
facts and arguments in support of their positions prior to any 
final  administrative  action,  when  time,  the  nature  of  the 
proceeding, and the public interest permit; and 
 
(c)  its procedures are in accordance with domestic law. 
 
10 6 
  
Article 15.6: Review and Appeal 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  establish  or  maintain  judicial  or  administrative 
tribunals or  procedures  for  the  purpose  of the  prompt  review  and,  where 
warranted,  correction  of  final  administrative  actions32  regarding  matters 
covered by this Agreement.  Such tribunals shall be impartial and independent 
of the office or authority entrusted with administrative enforcement and shall 
not have any substantial interest in the outcome of the matter. 
 
2.   Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or procedures, the 
parties to the proceeding are provided with the right to: 
 
(a)  a reasonable opportunity to support or defend their respective 
positions; and 
 
(b)  a decision based on the evidence and submissions of record or, 
where required by domestic law, the record compiled by the 
administrative authority. 
 
3.   Each  Party  shall  ensure,  subject  to  appeal  or  further  review  as 
provided in its domestic law, that such decisions shall be implemented by, and 
shall  govern  the  practice  of,  the  office  or  authority  with  respect  to  the 
administrative action at issue. 
 
 
Article 15.7: Specific Rules 
 
The provisions of this Chapter are without prejudice to any specific 
rules established in other chapters of this Agreement. 
 
                                                
32 For greater certainty, in the case of Singapore: 
 
(a) the review of final administrative actions can take the form of common law judicial 
review; and 
 
(b) the correction of final administrative actions may include a referral back to the body 
that took such action for corrective action. 
 
10 7 
 