 
 
 
Annex I 
Non-Conforming Measures 
Schedule of Singapore 
 
 
Explanatory Note 
 
 
1.   A Party’s Schedule to this Annex sets out, pursuant to Articles 10.7 (Non-
Conforming Measures) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services) and Article 11.13 
(Non-Conforming Measures) of Chapter 11 (Investment), the reservations taken 
by that Party with respect to measures that do not conform to some or all of the 
obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 10.5 (Market Access) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services); 
 
(b)  Article  10.3  (National  Treatment)  of  Chapter  10  (Trade  in 
Services)  or  Article  11.4  (National  Treatment)  of  Chapter  11 
(Investment); 
 
(c)  Article  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  of  Chapter  10 
(Trade  in  Services)  or  Article  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment) of Chapter 11 (Investment); 
 
(d)  Article 10.6 (Local Presence) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services); 
 
(e)  Article  11.8  (Performance  Requirements)  of  Chapter 
11(Investment); or 
 
(f)  Article  11.12  (Senior  Management  and  Board  of  Directors)  of 
Chapter 11 (Investment). 
 
2.   All measures affecting Article 10.5 (Market Access), Article 10.3(National 
Treatment) and Article 10.6 (Local Presence) of Chapter 10 (Trade in Services), 
and  Article  11.4  (National  Treatment),  Article  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment),  11.8  (Performance  Requirements)  and  Article  11.12  (Senior 
Management  and  Board  of  Directors)  of  Chapter  11  (Investment),  shall  be 
stated in the Description of Reservation element. In the interpretation of a 
reservation, all elements of the reservations shall be considered in their totality. 
 
3.  A National Treatment reservation includes a reservation in respect of 
National  Treatment  under  Chapter  10  (Trade  in  Services)  and  Chapter  11 
(Investment) unless the context or circumstances require otherwise. 
 
4.  The reservations and commitments relating to trade in services shall be 
read  together  with  the  relevant  guidelines,  stated  in  GATT  documents 
MTN.GNS/W/164 dated 3 September 1993 and MTN.GNS/W/164 Add. 1 dated 
30 November 1993. 
Annex I - SG - 1 
  
 
 
5.  Each Schedule entry sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)  Sector refers to the general sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Sub-Sector, for Singapore, refers to the specific subsector for 
which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers, for Singapore, where applicable, 
to the activity covered by the non-conforming measure, according 
to the provisional CPC codes as used in the Provisional Central 
Product  Classification  (Statistical  Papers  Series  M  No.  77, 
Department  of  International  Economic  and  Social  Affairs, 
Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991); 
 
(d)  Type of Reservation specifies the obligation(s) (Market Access, 
National  Treatment,  Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment, 
Performance  Requirements,  Local  Presence  and  Senior 
Management and Board of Directors) for which a reservation is 
taken; 
 
(e)   Source  of  Measure  identifies  the  laws,  regulations,  rules, 
procedures, administrative actions or any other form for which the 
reservation is taken. A measure cited in the Source of Measure 
element: 
 
i.  means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as 
of the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and 
 
ii.  includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained 
under the authority of and consistent with the measure; and 
 
(f)   Description  of  Reservation,  for  Singapore,  sets  out  the  non-
conforming measures to which the reservation applies.  
 
Annex I - SG - 2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 3 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 4 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 5 
  
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 6 
  
 
 
Annex I - SG - 7 
  
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 8 
  
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 9 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 10 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
1 Ref: See Sections 17, 18 and 18A of the Accountants Act. 
Annex I - SG - 11 
  
 
 
 
Sections 17, 18, 18 A of the Accountants Act 
 
Approval of accounting corporations 
17. —(1) A public accountant who wishes to have a company or proposed 
company approved as an accounting corporation may apply to the Oversight 
Committee for approval of —  
(a) the company as an accounting corporation; and  
(b) the name or proposed name of the accounting corporation.  
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall be made in accordance with the 
prescribed requirements and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee.  
(3) Subject to subsection (4) and any other provisions of this Act, the Oversight 
Committee may, on receiving an application made under this section, approve 
the company or proposed company concerned as an accounting corporation if 
and only if —  
(a) one of the primary objects of the company or proposed company is to 
provide public accountancy services;  
Act 11/2006, wef 06/10/2006  
(b) the share capital of the company or proposed company that is paid up or to 
be paid up is not less than $50,000 or such other sum as may be prescribed;  
(c) the articles of association of the company or proposed company provide that 
—  
(i) not less than two-thirds, or such other proportion as may be prescribed, of 
the directors (including the chairman) shall be public accountants, or —  
(A) if the company or proposed company has only one director, that that director 
shall be a public accountant; or  
(B) if the company or proposed company has only 2 directors, that one of those 
directors shall be a public accountant;  
(ii) not less than two-thirds, or such other proportion as may be prescribed, of 
the voting shares of the company or proposed company shall be owned by 
corporate practitioners; and  
(iii) only natural persons may own any shares of the company or proposed 
company;  
(d) the business of the company or proposed company, so far as it relates to the 
provision of public accountancy services in Singapore, will be under the control 
and management of one or more directors of the company who are public 
accountants ordinarily resident in Singapore; and  
Act 11/2006, wef 06/10/2006  
(e) the company or proposed company is or will be covered by professional 
indemnity insurance in accordance with section 28 and the prescribed 
requirements.  
(4) If the Oversight Committee grants its approval for a proposed company to be 
an accounting corporation, the approval shall not take effect until the company 
is formed and registered under the Companies Act (Cap. 50).  
[Accountants 2001 Ed., s. 19]  
 
Approval of accounting firms 
18. —(1) A public accountant who wishes to have a firm or proposed firm 
approved as an accounting firm may apply to the Oversight Committee for 
approval of —  
Annex I - SG - 12 
  
 
 
(a) the firm as an accounting firm; and  
(b) the name or proposed name of the accounting firm.  
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall be made in accordance with the 
prescribed requirements and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee.  
(3) The Oversight Committee may, on receiving an application made under this 
section, approve the firm or proposed firm concerned as an accounting firm if 
and only if —  
(a) one of the primary objects of the firm or proposed firm is to provide public 
accountancy services;  
(b) at least two-thirds, or such other proportion as may be prescribed, of the 
partners are public accountants, or if the partnership has only 2 partners, one of 
those partners is a public accountant; and  
(c) the business of the partnership, so far as it relates to the supply of public 
accountancy services in Singapore, will be under the control and management 
of one or more partners who are public accountants ordinarily resident in 
Singapore.  
Act 11/2006, wef 06/10/2006  
Approval of accounting LLPs 
18A. —(1) A public accountant who wishes to have a limited liability partnership 
or proposed limited liability partnership approved as an accounting LLP may 
apply to the Oversight Committee for the approval of —  
(a) the limited liability partnership as an accounting LLP; and  
(b) the name or proposed name of the accounting LLP.  
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall be made in accordance with the 
prescribed requirements and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee.  
(3) The Oversight Committee may, on receiving an application made under this 
section, approve the limited liability partnership or proposed limited liability 
partnership concerned as an accounting LLP if and only if —  
(a) one of the primary objects of the limited liability partnership or proposed 
limited liability partnership is to provide public accountancy services;  
(b) the capital of the limited liability partnership or proposed limited liability 
partnership that is paid up or to be paid up is not less than $50,000 or such 
other sum as may be prescribed;  
(c) at least two-thirds, or such other proportion as may be prescribed, of the 
partners are public accountants, or if the partnership has only 2 partners, one of 
those partners is a public accountant;  
(d) the accounting LLP or proposed accounting LLP is or will be covered by 
professional indemnity insurance in accordance with section 28 and the 
prescribed requirements; and  
(e) the business of the accounting LLP, so far as it relates to the supply of 
public accountancy services in Singapore, will be under the control and 
management of one or more partners who are public accountants ordinarily 
resident in Singapore.  
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 13 
  
 
Annex I - SG - 14 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 15 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 17 
  
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 18 
  
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 19 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 20 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 21 
  
 
 
Annex I - SG - 22 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 23 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 24 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 25 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 26 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 27 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 28 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 29 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
2 A facilities-based operator deploying only fixed wireless infrastructure for public broadband 
multimedia services through the use of nationwide wireless LAN, LMDS, infra-red and laser 
technologies may be a foreign company registered under the Singapore Companies Act, Cap. 
50 (1994). 
Annex I - SG - 30 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 31 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 32 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 33 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 34 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 35 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 36 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 37 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 38 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 39 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 40 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 41 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 42 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 43 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I - SG - 44 
 