 
Chapter 11 
Investment 
 
 
Article 11.1: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
enterprise  means  any  legal  entity  constituted  or  organized  under 
applicable  law,  whether  or  not  for  profit,  and  whether  privately  or 
governmentally owned, including a corporation, trust, partnership, sole 
proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar organization; and a 
branch of an enterprise; 
 
enterprise of a Party means an enterprise constituted or organized 
under the laws of a Party and a branch located in the territory of a 
Party and carrying out business operations there; 
 
freely usable currency means “freely usable currency” as determined 
by the International Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement of 
the Fund and any amendments thereto; 
  
investment means every kind of asset, owned or controlled, directly or 
indirectly,  by  an  investor,  that  includes  characteristics  such  as  the 
commitment of capital or other resources, the expectation of gain or 
profit,  or  the  assumption  of  risk,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 
following: 
 
(a)  an enterprise; 
 
(b)  shares, stock, and other forms of equity participation in 
an enterprise; 
 
(c)  bonds,  debentures,  and  loans  and  other  debt 
instruments16; 
 
(d)  futures, options, and other derivatives; 
 
(e)  turnkey,  construction,  management,  production, 
concession, revenue-sharing, and other similar contracts; 
 
(f)  claims  to  money  or  to  any  contractual  performance 
related to a business and having an economic value;  
 
                                                
16 For purposes of this Chapter, “loans and other debt instruments” described in (c) and 
“claims to money or to any contractual performance” described in (f) of this Article refer to 
assets which relate to a business activity and do not refer to assets which are of a personal 
nature, unrelated to any business activity. 
 
7 4 
 (g)  intellectual property rights, including goodwill; 
 
(h)  licenses,  authorizations,  permits,  and  similar  rights 
conferred pursuant to applicable domestic law, including 
any concession to search for, cultivate, extract or exploit 
natural resources17 18; and 
 
(i)  other  tangible  or  intangible,  movable  or  immovable 
property,  and  related  property  rights,  such  as  leases, 
mortgages, liens, and pledges; 
 
for purposes of this definition, returns that are invested shall be treated 
as  investments  and  any  alteration  of  the  form  in  which  assets  are 
invested or reinvested shall not affect their character as investments; 
 
investor means a national or an enterprise of a Party, that attempts to 
make, is making, or has made an investment in the territory of the other 
Party; provided, however, that a natural person who possesses dual 
nationality shall be deemed to possess exclusively the nationality of the 
State of his or her dominant and effective nationality; and 
 
national means a natural person who has the nationality of a Party 
according  to  Article  1.5  (Country-Specific  Definitions)  of  Chapter  1 
(Initial Provisions and General Definitions)19. 
 
 
Article 11.2: Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to measures adopted or maintained by a Party 
relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of the other Party; 
 
(b)  investments of investors of the other Party in the territory of the 
former Party;  
 
(c)  with respect to Article 11.8 (Performance Requirements), all the 
investments in the territory of the Party. 
                                                
17 The term “investment” does not include an order or judgment entered in a judicial or 
administrative action. 
 
18 Whether a particular type of license, authorization, permit, or similar instrument (including a 
concession, to the extent that it has the nature of such an instrument) has the characteristics 
of an investment depends on such factors as the nature and extent of the rights that the 
holder has under the domestic law of the Party.  For greater certainty, the foregoing is without 
prejudice to whether any asset associated with the license, authorization, permit, or similar 
instrument has the characteristics of an investment. 
 
19 If any future international agreement that contains provisions for investment protection, and 
to  which  Costa  Rica  is  a  party,  includes  provisions  to  cover  permanent  residents,  the 
provisions of this Chapter shall also cover the permanent residents of both Parties. 
7 5 
  
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any taxation measure unless otherwise provided; and 
 
(b)  services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of  governmental  authority 
within the territory of the respective Party.  For purposes of this 
Chapter,  a  service  supplied  in  the  exercise  of  governmental 
authority  means  any  service  which  is  supplied  neither  on  a 
commercial basis, nor in competition with one or more service 
suppliers. 
 
3.  In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another 
Chapter, the other Chapter shall prevail over this Chapter to the extent of the 
inconsistency. 
 
4.  The rights and obligations of the Parties with respect to investors and 
investments  in  telecommunications  services  shall  be  governed  by  this 
Chapter and Annex 10.1 (Telecommunications Services). 
 
5.  The requirement by a Party that a service supplier of the other Party 
post a bond or other form of financial security as a condition of the cross-
border supply of a service into its territory does not of itself make this Chapter 
applicable to that cross-border supply of a service.  This Chapter applies to 
that Party’s treatment of the posted bond or financial security, to the extent 
that such bond or financial security is an investment of an investor of the other 
Party. 
 
6.  This Chapter does not apply to disputes arising out of events which 
occurred, or disputes which had been raised, prior to the entry into force of 
this Agreement.  
 
 
Article 11.3: Financial Services20 
 
1.  This Chapter shall not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a 
Party  in  respect  of  investors  of  the  other  Party  and  investments  of  such 
investors  in  the  financial  institutions21  in  the  other  Party,  except  for  the 
following provisions: 
 
(a)  Article 11.7 (Compensation for Losses); 
 
(b)  Article 11.9 (Special Formalities and Information Requirements); 
 
                                                
20 For purposes of this Article, “financial services” is as defined in subparagraph 5 (a) of the 
Annex on Financial Services in GATS. 
 
21 “Financial institution” means any financial intermediary or other enterprise that is authorized 
to do business and regulated or supervised as a financial institution under the law of the Party 
in whose territory it is located. 
7 6 
 (c)  Article 11.10 (Expropriation and Nationalization); 
 
(d)  Article 11.11 (Transfers); 
 
(e)  Article 11.12 (Senior Management and Board of Directors); 
 
(f)  Article 11.14 (Denial of Benefits); and 
 
(g)  Article 11.16 (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). 
 
The Parties reaffirm their commitments under GATS with respect to financial 
services. 
 
2.  For  purposes  of  paragraph  1,  Article  11.16  (Investor-State  Dispute 
Settlement) shall apply solely for claims that a Party has breached Articles 
11.10  (Expropriation  and  Nationalization),  11.11  (Transfers),  and  11.14 
(Denial of Benefits).  
 
3.  This Chapter shall not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a 
Party relating to: 
 
(a)  activities or services forming part of a public retirement plan or 
statutory system of social security;  
 
(b)  activities  or  services  conducted  for  the  account  or  with  the 
guarantee or using the financial resources of the Party, including 
its public entities; or 
 
(c)  activities conducted by a central bank or monetary authority or 
by any other public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange 
rate policies; 
 
except that the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply if a Party 
allows any of the activities or services referred to in subparagraph (a) or (b) to 
be conducted by its financial institutions in competition with a public entity or a 
financial institution. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, each Party may 
adopt or maintain measures for prudential reasons, such as: the protection of 
investors, depositors, policy-holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is 
owed by a financial institution or financial services supplier; the maintenance 
of  the  safety,  soundness,  integrity  or  financial  responsibility  of  financial 
services suppliers; and ensuring the integrity and stability of a Party’s financial 
system.  Such measures shall not be used as a means of avoiding a Party’s 
obligations under the provisions referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding Article 11.11 (Transfers), a Party may prevent or limit 
transfers by a financial institution or financial services supplier to, or for the 
benefit  of,  an  affiliate  of  or  person  related  to  such  institution  or  supplier, 
through  the  equitable,  non-discriminatory,  and  good  faith  application  of 
7 7 
 measures  relating  to  maintenance  of  the  safety,  soundness,  integrity,  or 
financial responsibility of financial institutions or financial services suppliers.  
This paragraph does not prejudice any other provision of this Agreement that 
permits a Party to restrict transfers. 
 
6.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent the adoption or 
enforcement by any Party of measures necessary to secure compliance with 
laws or regulations that are not inconsistent with this Chapter, including those 
relating to the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to deal with 
the  effects  of  a  default  on  financial  services  contracts,  subject  to  the 
requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which would 
constitute  a  means  of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  between 
countries  where  like  conditions  prevail,  or  a  disguised  restriction  on 
investment in financial institutions. 
 
7.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party to disclose 
information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual consumers or any 
confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public entities. 
 
 
Article 11.4: National Treatment 
  
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no 
less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to its own investors 
with  respect  to  the  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion,  management, 
conduct, operation, and sale or other disposition of investments in its territory.  
 
2.  Each Party shall accord to investments of investors of the other Party 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to 
investments  in  its  territory  of  its  own  investors  with  respect  to  the 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and 
sale or other disposition of investments. 
 
 
Article 11.5: Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no 
less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to investors of any 
non-Party  with  respect  to  the  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion, 
management, conduct, operation, and sale or other disposition of investments 
in its territory. 
 
2.  Each Party shall accord to investments of investors of the other Party 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to 
investments in its territory of investors of any non-Party with respect to the 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and 
sale or other disposition of investments. 
  
3.  For greater certainty, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not be 
construed  as  granting  to  investors  mechanisms  or  procedures  for  the 
7 8 
 settlement of disputes other than those set out in Article 11.16 (Investor-State 
Dispute Settlement).  
 
 
Article 11.6: Minimum Standard of Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investments of investors of the other Party 
treatment in accordance with customary international law minimum standard 
of  treatment  of  aliens22,  including  fair  and  equitable  treatment  and  full 
protection and security. 
 
2.  The concepts of “fair and equitable treatment” and “full protection and 
security” in paragraph 1 do not require treatment in addition to or beyond that 
which is required by the customary international law minimum standard of 
treatment of aliens and do not create additional substantive rights. 
 
(a)  The obligation to provide “fair and equitable treatment” includes 
the  obligation  not  to  deny  justice  in  criminal,  civil  or 
administrative adjudicatory proceedings in accordance with the 
principle of due process embodied in the principal legal systems 
of the world. 
 
(b)  The obligation to provide “full protection and security” requires 
each  Party  to  provide  the  level  of  police  protection  required 
under customary international law. 
 
3.  A determination that there has been a breach of another provision of 
this Agreement, or of a separate international agreement, does not establish 
that there has been a breach of this Article. 
 
 
Article 11.7: Compensation for Losses 
 
1.  Investors of one Party whose investments in the territory of the other 
Party suffer losses owing to war or other armed conflict, revolution, a state of 
national  emergency,  insurrection,  riot  or  any  other  similar  event,  shall  be 
accorded by the latter Party treatment, as regards restitution, indemnification, 
compensation or other settlement, no less favourable than that which the 
latter Party accords to investments of its own investors or investments of 
investors of any non-Party, whichever is more favourable, to the investment of 
the  investor  of  the  former  Party.    All  payments  that  may  result  shall  be 
deemed freely transferable. 
 
2.   Paragraph 1 does not apply to existing measures relating to subsidies 
or grants provided by a Party, or to any conditions attached to the receipt or 
continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such subsidies 
                                                
22 Customary international law results from a general and consistent practice of States that 
they follow from a sense of legal obligation.  With regards to this Article, the customary 
international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens refers to all customary international 
law principles that protect the economic rights and interests of aliens. 
7 9 
 or grants are offered exclusively to investors of the Party or investments of 
investors of the Party, including government-supported loans, guarantees and 
insurance, that would be inconsistent with Article 11.4 (National Treatment) 
and  Article  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  but  for  Article  11.13.4 
(Non-Conforming Measures). 
 
 
Article 11.8: Performance Requirements 
 
1.   Neither Party may impose or enforce any of the following requirements, 
or  enforce  any  commitment  or  undertaking,  in  connection  with  the 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, or 
sale or other disposition of an investment of an investor of a Party or of a non-
Party in its territory: 
 
(a)  to export a given level or percentage of goods or services; 
 
(b)  to achieve a given level or percentage of domestic content; 
 
(c)  to purchase, use or accord a preference to goods produced in 
its territory, or to purchase goods from persons in its territory; 
 
(d)  to relate in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume 
or value of exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows 
associated with such investment; 
 
(e)  to restrict sales of goods or services in its territory that such 
investment produces or supplies by relating such sales in any 
way to the volume or value of its exports or foreign exchange 
earnings; 
 
(f)  to transfer a particular technology, production process or other 
proprietary knowledge to a person in its territory; or 
 
(g)  to supply exclusively from the territory of the Party the goods 
that it produces or the services that it provides to a specific 
regional market or to the world market. 
 
2.  Neither  Party  may  condition  the  receipt  or  continued  receipt  of  an 
advantage,  in  connection  with  the  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion, 
management, conduct, operation, or sale or other disposition of an investment 
in its territory of an investor of a Party or of a non-Party, on compliance with 
any of the following requirements: 
 
(a)  to achieve a given level or percentage of domestic content; 
 
(b)  to purchase, use or accord a preference to goods produced in 
its territory or to purchase goods from persons in its territory; 
 
8 0 
 (c)  to relate in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume 
or value of exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows 
associated with such investment; or 
 
(d)  to restrict sales of goods or services in its territory that such 
investment produces or supplies by relating such sales in any 
way to the volume or value of its exports or foreign exchange 
earnings.  
 
3.  (a)  Nothing in paragraph 2 shall be construed to prevent a Party 
from  conditioning  the  receipt  or  continued  receipt  of  an 
advantage, in connection with an investment in its territory of an 
investor  of  a  Party  or  of  a  non-Party,  on  compliance  with  a 
requirement  to  locate  production,  supply  a  service,  train  or 
employ workers, construct or expand particular facilities, or carry 
out research and development, in its territory.  
 
(b)  The provisions of subparagraph 1(f) do not apply: 
 
i.  when a Party authorizes use of an intellectual property 
right  in  accordance  with  Article  31  of  the  TRIPS 
Agreement, and to measures requiring the disclosure of 
proprietary information that fall within the scope of, and 
are consistent with Article 39 of the TRIPS Agreement23; 
or  
 
ii.  when the requirement is imposed or the commitment or 
undertaking is enforced by a court, administrative tribunal 
or competition authority to remedy a practice determined 
after  judicial  or  administrative  process  to  be  anti-
competitive under the Party’s competition laws24. 
 
(c)  Provided that such measures are not applied in an arbitrary or 
unjustifiable manner, and provided that such measures do not 
constitute  a  disguised  restriction  on  international  trade  or 
investment, subparagraphs 1(b), (c), and (f), and 2(a) and (b), 
shall  not  be  construed  to  prevent  a  Party  from  adopting  or 
maintaining measures, including environmental measures: 
 
i.  necessary  to  secure  compliance  with  laws  and 
regulations that are not inconsistent with this Agreement; 
 
ii.  necessary  to  protect  human,  animal,  or  plant  life  or 
health; or 
 
                                                
23 For greater certainty, the references to the TRIPS Agreement in subparagraph 3(b)(i) 
include any waiver in force between the Parties of any provision of that Agreement granted by 
WTO Members in accordance with the WTO Agreement. 
 
24 The Parties recognize that a patent does not necessarily confer market power. 
8 1 
 iii.  related  to  the  conservation  of  living  or  non-living 
exhaustible natural resources. 
 
(d)  Subparagraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c), and (2)(a) and (b) do not 
apply to qualification requirements for goods or services with 
respect to export promotion and foreign aid programmes. 
 
(e)  The provisions of subparagraphs (2)(a) and (b) do not apply to 
requirements  imposed  by  an  importing  Party  relating  to  the 
content of goods necessary to qualify for preferential tariffs or 
preferential quotas. 
 
(f)  Subparagraphs 1(b), (c), (f) and (g), and 2(a) and (b), do not 
apply to government procurement. 
 
4.  For  greater  certainty,  paragraphs  1  and  2  do  not  apply  to  any 
requirement other than the requirements set out in those paragraphs.  
 
5.  This  Article  does  not  preclude  the  application  of  any  commitment, 
undertaking or requirement between private parties, where a Party did not 
impose or require the commitment, undertaking or requirement. 
 
 
Article 11.9: Special Formalities and Information Requirements 
 
1.  Nothing  in  Article  11.4  (National  Treatment)  shall  be  construed  to 
prevent  a  Party  from  adopting  or  maintaining  a  measure  that  prescribes 
special formalities in connection with investments of investors of the other 
Party, such as a requirement that investors be residents of the Party or that 
investments of investors of the other Party be legally constituted under the 
laws  or  regulations  of  the  Party,  provided  that  such  formalities  do  not 
materially impair the protections afforded by a Party to investors of the other 
Party and investments of investors of the other Party pursuant to this Chapter.  
The Parties shall endeavour to exchange information on any existing or future 
special formalities. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding  Article  11.4  (National  Treatment)  and  Article  11.5 
(Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), a Party may require an investor of the 
other Party or investment of investor of the other Party, to provide information 
concerning  that  investment  solely  for  informational  or  statistical  purposes.  
The  Party  shall  protect  any  confidential  business  information  from  any 
disclosure that would prejudice the competitive position of the investor or the 
investment of investor of the other Party.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be 
construed  to  prevent  a  Party  from  otherwise  obtaining  or  disclosing 
information in connection with the equitable and good faith application of its 
law. 
 
 
8 2 
 Article 11.10: Expropriation and Nationalization25 
  
1.  Neither  Party  shall  expropriate  or  nationalize  the  investments  of 
investors  of  the  other  Party  either  directly  or  indirectly  through  measures 
equivalent  to  expropriation  or  nationalization  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“expropriation”),  unless  such  a  measure  is  taken  on  a  non-discriminatory 
basis, for a public purpose, in accordance with due process of law and Article 
11.6 (Minimum Standard of Treatment), and upon payment of compensation 
in accordance with this Article26.  
 
2.  The expropriation shall be accompanied by the payment of prompt, 
adequate and effective compensation.  Compensation shall be equivalent to 
the fair market value of the expropriated investment immediately before the 
expropriation  or  impending  expropriation  became  public  knowledge.  
Compensation shall carry an appropriate interest, taking into account the date 
of  expropriation  until  the  date  of  payment.    Such  compensation  shall  be 
effectively  realizable,  freely  transferable  in  accordance  with  Article  11.11 
(Transfers) and made without delay.  
 
3.  This Article does not apply to the issuance of compulsory licenses 
granted in relation to intellectual property rights, or to the revocation, limitation 
or creation of intellectual property rights, to the extent that such issuance, 
revocation, limitation or creation is consistent with the TRIPS Agreement27. 
 
 
Article 11.11: Transfers 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  permit  all  transfers  relating  to  investments  of  an 
investor of the other Party to be made freely and without delay into and out of 
its territory.  Such transfers include: 
 
(a)  contributions to capital; 
 
(b)  profits, dividends, capital gains, and proceeds from the sale of 
all or any part of the investment or from the partial or complete 
liquidation of the investment;  
 
(c)  interest,  royalty  payments,  management  fees,  and  technical 
assistance and other fees; 
                                                
25 This  Article  shall  be  interpreted  in  accordance  with  Annex  11.1  (Expropriation  and 
Nationalization). 
 
26 For Singapore, any measure of expropriation relating to land, which shall be as defined in 
the existing domestic legislation on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, shall be for 
a purpose and upon payment of compensation in accordance with the aforesaid legislation 
and any subsequent amendments thereto relating to the amount of compensation where such 
amendments follow the general trends in the market value of the land. 
 
27 For greater certainty, the reference to the TRIPS Agreement in paragraph 3 includes any 
waiver in force between the Parties of any provision of that Agreement granted by WTO 
Members in accordance with the WTO Agreement. 
8 3 
  
(d)  payments made under a contract entered into by the investor, or 
its  investment,  including  payments  made  pursuant  to  a  loan 
agreement; 
 
(e)  payments  made  pursuant  to  Article  11.7  (Compensation  for 
Losses) and Article 11.10 (Expropriation and Nationalization); 
and 
 
(f)  payments  arising  under  Article  11.16  (Investor-State  Dispute 
Settlement). 
 
2.  Each Party shall permit such transfers to be made in a freely usable 
currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing on the date of transfer. 
 
3.  Each Party shall permit returns in kind relating to an investment of 
investors of the other Party to be made as authorized or specified in a written 
agreement between the Party and an investment by an investor of the other 
Party, or an investor of the other Party. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Party may prevent or delay a 
transfer through the equitable, non-discriminatory, and good faith application 
of its laws relating to: 
 
(a)  bankruptcy,  insolvency,  or  the  protection  of  the  rights  of 
creditors; 
 
(b)  issuing,  trading,  or  dealing  in  securities,  futures,  options,  or 
derivatives; 
 
(c)  financial  reporting  or  record  keeping  of  transfers  when 
necessary  to  assist  law  enforcement  or  financial  regulatory 
authorities; 
 
(d)  criminal or penal offenses; 
 
(e)  ensuring  compliance  with  orders  or  judgments  in  judicial  or 
administrative proceedings; or 
 
(f)  social  security,  public  retirement  or  compulsory  savings 
schemes. 
 
5.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and obligations of the 
members of the International Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement 
of the Fund, including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity 
with  the  Articles  of  Agreement,  provided  that  a  Party  shall  not  impose 
restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently with its obligations under 
this  Chapter  regarding  such  transactions,  except  under  Article  18.5 
(Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments) or at the request of the 
Fund. 
8 4 
  
 
Article 11.12: Senior Management and Board of Directors 
 
1.  Neither Party may require that an enterprise of that Party that is an 
investment of an investor of the other Party appoint to senior management 
positions natural persons of any particular nationality. 
 
2.  A Party may require that a majority of the board of directors, or any 
committee thereof, of an enterprise of that Party that is an investment of an 
investor of the other Party, be of a particular nationality, or resident in the 
territory of the Party, provided that the requirement does not materially impair 
the  ability  of  the  investor  of  the  other  Party  to  exercise  control  over  its 
investment. 
 
 
Article 11.13: Non-Conforming Measures 
 
1.  Articles  11.4  (National  Treatment),  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment),  11.8  (Performance  Requirements)  and  11.12  (Senior 
Management and Board of Directors) do not apply to: 
 
(a)  any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a 
Party at: 
 
i.  the central level of government, as set out by that Party in 
its Schedule to Annex I (Non-Conforming Measures); or 
 
ii.  a local level of government; 
 
(b)  the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any  non-conforming 
measure referred to in subparagraph (a); or 
 
(c)  an amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in 
subparagraph (a) to the extent that the amendment does not 
decrease  the  conformity  of  the  measure,  as  it  existed 
immediately before the amendment, with Articles 11.4 (National 
Treatment),  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment),  11.8 
(Performance  Requirements)  and  11.12  (Senior  Management 
and Board of Directors). 
 
2.  Articles  11.4  (National  Treatment),  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment),  11.8  (Performance  Requirements)  and  11.12  (Senior 
Management and Board of Directors) do not apply to any measure that a 
Party adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors, or activities, as 
set out in its Schedule to Annex II (Non-Conforming Measures). 
 
3.  Neither Party may, under any measure adopted after the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement and covered by its Schedule to Annex II (Non-
Conforming Measures), require an investor of the other Party, by reason of its 
8 5 
 nationality, to sell or otherwise dispose of an investment existing at the time 
the measure becomes effective. 
 
4.  Articles  11.4  (National  Treatment),  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment) and 11.12 (Senior Management and Board of Directors) shall not 
apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party, or to any conditions attached 
to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not 
such subsidies or grants are offered exclusively to investors of the Party or 
investments of investors of the Party, including government supported loans, 
guarantees and insurance. 
 
5.  Articles  11.4  (National  Treatment),  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment) and 11.12 (Senior Management and Board of Directors) shall not 
apply to government procurement as defined in Article 8.2 (Definitions) of 
Chapter 8 (Government Procurement).  
 
6.   Articles  11.4  (National  Treatment)  and  11.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment) do not apply to any measure that is an exception to, or derogation 
from,  a  Party’s  obligations  under  the  TRIPS  Agreement,  as  specifically 
provided for in that Agreement. 
 
 
Article 11.14: Denial of Benefits 
 
Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party may deny the 
benefits of this Chapter to: 
 
(a)  an  investor  of  the  other  Party  and  to  its  investments  if  the 
investor is an enterprise owned or controlled by persons of a 
non-Party  and  such  enterprise  has  no  substantive  business 
operations in the territory of the other Party; or 
 
(b)  an  investor  of  the  other  Party  and  to  its  investments  if  the 
investor is an enterprise owned or controlled by persons of the 
denying Party and such enterprise has no substantive business 
operations in the territory of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 11.15: Subrogation 
 
1.  If a Party or a designated agency of a Party makes a payment to any of 
its investors under  a  guarantee,  a  contract  of insurance  or  other  form  of 
indemnity it has granted in respect of an investment of an investor of that 
Party, the other Party shall recognize the subrogation or transfer of any right 
or title in respect of such investment.  The subrogated or transferred right or 
claim shall not be greater than the original right or claim of the investor.  
 
2.  Where a Party or a designated agency of a Party has made a payment 
to  an investor of  that  Party and  has  taken  over rights  and  claims  of  the 
investor, that investor shall not, unless authorized to act on behalf of the Party 
8 6 
 or the designated agency of the Party making the payment, pursue those 
rights and claims against the other Party.  
 
 
Article 11.16: Investor-State Dispute Settlement 
 
1.  This Article shall apply to disputes between a Party and an investor of 
the other Party concerning an alleged breach of an obligation of a Party under 
this Chapter which results in loss or damage to the investor or its investment 
by reason of that breach. 
 
2.  The parties to the dispute shall initially seek to resolve the dispute by 
consultations and negotiations.  
 
3.  Where the dispute cannot be resolved as provided for under paragraph 
2  within  6  months  from  the  date  of  a  request  for  consultations  and 
negotiations, then, and unless the disputing investor and the disputing Party 
agree otherwise or if the disputing investor has already submitted the dispute 
for resolution before the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing 
Party (excluding proceedings for interim measures of protection referred to in 
paragraph 5 of this Article) or to any other dispute settlement procedures, the 
disputing investor may submit the dispute for settlement to28: 
  
(a)  the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes 
(ICSID) for conciliation or arbitration pursuant to the Convention 
on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and 
Nationals of Other States (ICSID Convention), if both Parties are 
parties to the ICSID Convention;  
 
(b)  the  Additional  Facility  Rules  of  ICSID  for  conciliation  or 
arbitration, provided that one of the Parties, but not both, is a 
party to the ICSID Convention; or  
 
(c)  arbitration under the rules of the United Nations Commission on 
International Trade Law (UNCITRAL). 
 
The conciliation or arbitration rules applicable under subparagraphs (a), (b) 
and (c), and in effect on the date the dispute is submitted to conciliation or 
arbitration under this Article, shall govern the conciliation or arbitration except 
to the extent modified by this Article. 
 
4.  Each  Party  hereby  consents  to  the  submission  of  a  dispute  to 
conciliation  or  arbitration  under  subparagraphs  3  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  in 
accordance with the provisions of this Article, conditional upon: 
  
                                                
28 For greater certainty, if a disputing investor elects to submit a dispute of the type described 
in paragraph 1 of this Article to the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party or 
to any other dispute settlement procedures, that election shall be definitive, and the disputing 
investor may not thereafter submit the dispute to conciliation or arbitration under this Article. 
8 7 
 (a)  the submission of the dispute to such conciliation or arbitration 
taking place within 3 years of the time at which the disputing 
investor  became  aware,  or  should  reasonably  have  become 
aware, of a breach of an obligation under this Chapter resulting 
in loss or damage to the disputing investor or its investment by 
reason of that breach; and 
 
(b)  the disputing investor providing written notice to the disputing 
Party of its intent to submit the dispute to such conciliation or 
arbitration, at least 30 days before the dispute is submitted, and 
which:  
  
i.  states the name and address of the disputing investor 
and,  where  a  dispute  is  submitted  on  behalf  of  an 
enterprise, the name, address, and place of constitution 
of the enterprise; 
 
ii.  nominates either subparagraphs 3(a), (b) or (c) of this 
Article as the procedure for dispute settlement (and, in 
the  case  of  ICSID,  nominates  whether  conciliation  or 
arbitration is being sought);  
 
iii.  waives its right to initiate or continue any proceedings 
before  the  courts  or  administrative  tribunals  of  the 
disputing  Party  (excluding  proceedings  for  interim 
measures of protection referred to in paragraph 5 of this 
Article) or to any other dispute settlement procedures or 
other dispute settlement fora referred to in paragraph 3 in 
relation to the matter under dispute; and 
 
iv.  briefly summarizes the alleged breach of the disputing 
Party under this Chapter (including the Articles alleged to 
have been breached), the legal and factual basis for the 
dispute, and the loss or damage allegedly caused to the 
disputing  investor  or  its  investment  by  reason  of  that 
breach. 
  
5.  Neither Party shall prevent the disputing investor from seeking interim 
measures of protection under the laws of the disputing Party, not involving the 
payment of damages or resolution of the substance of the matter in dispute 
before the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party for the 
preservation of its rights and interests.  
 
6.  Neither Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an international 
claim, in respect of a dispute which one of its investors and the other Party 
shall have consented to submit or have submitted to conciliation or arbitration 
under this Article, unless such other Party has failed to abide by and comply 
with the award rendered in such dispute.  Diplomatic protection, for purposes 
of this paragraph, shall not include informal diplomatic exchanges for the sole 
purpose of facilitating a settlement of the dispute.  
8 8 
  
7.  The arbitral awards shall be based on the provisions of this Agreement, 
the laws of the disputing Party, including its rules on the conflict of laws, and 
the applicable rules of international law.  The arbitral award shall be final and 
binding and each Party shall ensure the recognition and enforcement of the 
arbitral award in accordance with its laws. 
8 9 
 