 
 
 
121 
CHAPTER 11 : TEMPORARY ENTRY OF BUSINESS PERSONS 
 
ARTICLE 11.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
business person means a national of a Party who is engaged in trade in goods, the provision of 
services or the conduct of investment activities;   
 
immigration measure  means any law, regulation, or procedure affecting the entry and sojourn 
of aliens, including the issuance of immigration documents authorizing employment to an alien; 
and  
 
temporary entry means entry into the territory of a Party by a business person of the other Party 
without the intent to establish permanent residence.  
 
ARTICLE 11.2 : GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
 
1.     This Chapter reflects the preferential trading relationship between the Parties, the Parties’ 
mutual desire to facilitate temporary entry on a comparable basis and of establishing transparent 
criteria and procedures for temporary entry, and the need to ensure border security and to protect 
the domestic labor force and permanent employment in their respective territories.  
 
2.     This Chapter shall not apply to measures regarding citizenship, permanent residence, or 
employment on a permanent basis.  
 
ARTICLE 11.3 : GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
 
1.     Each Party shall apply its measures relating to the provisions of this Chapter in 
accordance with Article 11.2 and, in particular, shall apply expeditiously those measures so as to 
avoid unduly impairing or delaying trade in goods or services or conduct of investment activities 
under this Agreement.  
 
2.     For greater certainty, nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying 
measures to regulate the entry of natural persons into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, 
including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the orderly 
movement of natural persons across its borders, provided that such measures are not applied in 
such a manner as to unduly impair or delay trade in goods or services or conduct of investment 
activities under this Agreement.  The sole fact of requiring a visa, or other document authorizing 
employment to a business person, for natural persons shall not be regarded as unduly impairing 
or delaying trade in goods or services or conduct of investment activities under this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 11.4 : GRANT OF TEMPORARY ENTRY 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant temporary entry to business persons listed in Annex 11A who are 
otherwise qualified for entry under applicable measures relating to public health and safety and 
national security, in accordance with this Chapter.     
   
   
 
122 
2.   A Party may refuse to issue an immigration document authorizing employment to a 
business person where the temporary entry of that person might affect adversely:   
 
(a)   the settlement of any labor dispute that is in progress at the place or intended 
place of employment; or   
 
(b)   the employment of any person who is involved in such dispute.  
   
3.   When a Party refuses pursuant to paragraph 2 to issue an immigration document 
authorizing employment, it shall:   
 
(a)   take measures to allow the business person to be informed in writing; and  
 
(b)   promptly notify the other Party in writing of the reasons for the refusal.  
   
4.   Each Party shall set any fees for processing applications for temporary entry of business 
persons in a manner consistent with Article 11.3.1.  
 
ARTICLE 11.5 : REGULATORY TRANSPARENCY 
   
1.   Each Party shall maintain or establish contact points or other mechanisms to respond to 
inquiries from interested persons regarding regulations affecting the temporary entry of business 
persons.  
   
2.   If a Party receives comments regarding a proposed regulation from interested persons, it 
should publish a concise statement addressing those comments at the time that it adopts the final 
regulations.  
   
3.   To the extent possible, each Party shall allow reasonable time between publication of 
final regulations affecting the temporary entry of business persons and their effective date.   
 
4.     Each Party shall, within a reasonable period of time after an application requesting 
temporary entry is considered complete under its domestic laws and regulations, inform the 
applicant of the decision concerning the application.  At the request of the applicant, the Party 
shall provide, without undue delay, information concerning the status of the application.  
   
5.   Prior to the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall exchange information on 
current procedures relating to the processing of applications for temporary entry, including 
processing goals that apply to business persons of the other Party.  Each Party shall endeavor to 
achieve these goals and make available upon request to the other Party, in accordance with its 
domestic law, data respecting the attainment of these processing goals.    
   
6.   For purposes of this Article, regulation means a measure of general application other 
than a law, and includes a measure that establishes or applies to licensing authorization or 
criteria.    
   
   
 
123 
ARTICLE 11.6 : PROVISION OF INFORMATION 
 
Further to Article 19.3 (Publication), each Party shall:   
 
(a)   provide to the other Party such materials as will enable it to become acquainted 
with its measures relating to this Chapter; and   
 
(b)   no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, 
prepare, publish, and make available in its own territory, and in the territory of the 
other Party, explanatory material in a consolidated document regarding the 
requirements for temporary entry under this Chapter in such a manner as will 
enable business persons of the other Party to become acquainted with them.  
 
ARTICLE 11.7 : TEMPORARY ENTRY COORDINATORS 
   
1.   Each Party shall establish a Temporary Entry Coordinator, which shall include officials  
responsible for immigration measures.  
   
2.   The Temporary Entry Coordinators of the Parties shall:  
 
(a)   establish their own schedule of meetings;  
 
(b)   exchange information on measures that affect the temporary entry of business 
persons under this Chapter;  
 
(c)   consider the development of measures to facilitate the temporary entry of business 
persons on a comparable basis;  
 
(d)   consider the implementation and administration of this Chapter; and  
 
(e)   make available, upon request, to the other Party in accordance with its domestic 
law, data respecting the granting of temporary entry under this Chapter to 
business persons of the other Party who have been issued immigration documents.  
 
ARTICLE 11.8 : DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
   
1.   A Party may not initiate proceedings under Article 20.4 (Additional Dispute Settlement 
Procedures) regarding a refusal to grant temporary entry under this Chapter or a particular case 
arising under Article 11.3.1 unless:   
 
(a)   the matter involves a pattern of practice; and   
 
(b)   the business person has exhausted the available administrative remedies regarding 
the particular matter.  
   
2.   The remedies referred to in paragraph (1)(b) shall be deemed to be exhausted if a final 
determination in the matter has not been issued by the competent authority within one year of the  
 
 
124 
institution of an administrative proceeding, and the failure to issue a determination is not 
attributable to delay caused by the business person.  
 
ARTICLE 11.9 : RELATION TO OTHER CHAPTERS 
 
Except for this Chapter, Chapters 1 (Establishment of a Free Trade Area and Definitions), 20 
(Administration and Dispute Settlement), and 21 (General Provisions), and Articles 19.2 
(Contact Points), 19.3 (Publication), 19.4 (Notification and Provision of Information), and 19.5 
(Administrative Proceedings) of Chapter 19 (Transparency), no provision of this Agreement 
shall impose any obligation on a Party regarding its immigration measures.     
   
   
 
125 
ANNEX 11A    
 
SECTION I : BUSINESS VISITORS 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant temporary entry for up to 90 days to a business person seeking to 
engage in a business activity set out in Appendix 11A.1, without requiring that person to obtain 
an employment authorization, provided that the business person otherwise complies with 
immigration measures applicable to temporary entry, and on presentation of:   
 
(a)   proof of nationality of a Party;   
 
(b)   documentation demonstrating that the business person will be so engaged and 
describing the purpose of entry; and   
 
(c)   evidence demonstrating that the proposed business activity is international in 
scope and that the business person is not seeking to enter the local labor market.  
   
2.   Each Party may provide that a business person satisfy the requirements of paragraph 1 by 
demonstrating that:  
 
(a)   the primary source of remuneration for the proposed business activity is outside   
the territory of the Party granting temporary entry; and  
 
(b)   the business person’s principal place of business and the actual place of accrual of 
profits, at least predominantly, remain outside such territory.  
   
3.   A Party shall normally accept an oral declaration as to the principal place of business and 
the actual place of accrual of profits. Where the Party requires further proof, it shall normally 
consider a letter from the employer attesting to these matters as sufficient proof.  
   
4.   Neither Party may:   
   
  (a)   as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require prior approval 
 
procedures, petitions, labor certification tests, or other procedures of similar 
 
  effect; or   
   
  (b)   impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry under 
 
paragraph 1.  
 
 
 
  SECTION II : TRADERS AND INVESTORS 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant temporary entry and provide confirming documentation to a 
business person seeking to:   
 
(a)   carry on substantial trade in goods or services principally between the territory of 
the Party of which the business person is a national and the territory of the other 
Party into which entry is sought, or    
 
 
126 
(b)   establish, develop, administer, or provide advice or key technical services to the 
operation of an investment to which the business person or the business person’s 
enterprise has committed, or is in the process of committing, a substantial amount 
of capital,   
 
in a capacity that is supervisory, executive, or involves essential skills, provided that the business 
person otherwise complies with immigration measures applicable to temporary entry.   
   
2.   Neither Party may:   
   
  (a)   as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require labor certification 
 
tests or other procedures of similar effect; or   
 
 
 
  (b)   impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry under 
  paragraph 1.  
 
 
 
  SECTION III : INTRA-COMPANY TRANSFEREES 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant temporary entry and provide confirming documentation to a 
business person employed by an enterprise who seeks to render services to that enterprise or a 
subsidiary or affiliate thereof, in a capacity that is managerial, executive, or involves specialized 
knowledge, provided that the business person otherwise complies with existing immigration 
measures applicable to temporary entry. A Party may require the business person to have been 
employed continuously by the enterprise for one year within the three-year period immediately 
preceding the date of the application for admission.  The Parties understand that, as used in this  
paragraph, “a business person employed by an enterprise who seeks to render services to that 
enterprise or a subsidiary or affiliate thereof, in a capacity that is managerial, executive or 
involves special knowledge” has the same meaning as “managers, executives and specialists” as 
defined in relation to intra-corporate transferees in a Party’s Schedule of Specific Commitments 
to the GATS.  
   
2.   A Party shall not:   
   
  (a)   as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require labor certification 
 
tests or other procedures of similar effect; or        
 
 
 
  (b)   impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry under 
  paragraph 1.  
 
 
 
  SECTION IV : PROFESSIONALS 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant temporary entry and provide confirming documentation to a 
business person seeking to engage in a business activity as a professional, or to perform training 
functions related to a particular profession, including conducting seminars, if the business person 
otherwise complies with immigration measures applicable to temporary entry, on presentation of:   
 
(a)   proof of nationality of a Party;      
   
   
 
127 
 
  (b)   documentation demonstrating that the business person will be so engaged and 
  describing the purpose of entry; and  
 
 
 
(c)   documentation demonstrating the attainment of the relevant minimum educational 
 
  requirements or alternative credentials.  
   
2.   For purposes of this Chapter, professional means a national of a Party who is engaged in 
a specialty occupation requiring:  
 
(a)   theoretical and practical application of a body of specialized knowledge; and  
 
(b)   attainment of a post-secondary degree in the specialty requiring four or more 
years of study (or the equivalent of such a degree) as a minimum for entry into the 
occupation.  Such degrees include the Bachelor’s Degree, Master’s Degree, and 
the Doctoral Degree conferred by institutions in the United States and Singapore.  
   
3.   Notwithstanding paragraph 2, each Party shall grant temporary entry to business persons 
seeking to engage in a business activity as a professional in one of the professions listed in 
Appendix 11A.2, provided that the business person possesses the credentials specified and 
otherwise complies with the requirements in paragraph 1 of this Section.  
   
4.   To assist in the implementation of this Chapter, the Parties shall exchange illustrative lists 
of professions that meet the definition of professional by the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement.  The Parties shall also exchange information on post-secondary education, in order 
to facilitate the evaluation of applications for temporary entry.  
   
5.   A Party shall not:   
   
  (a)   as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require prior approval 
 
procedures, petitions, labor certification tests, or other procedures of similar 
 
effect; or   
 
   
  (b)   impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry under 
 
paragraph 1.  
 
 
6.   Notwithstanding paragraph 5(a), a Party may require a business person seeking 
temporary entry under this Section to comply with procedures applicable to temporary entry of 
professionals, such as an attestation of compliance with the Party’s labor and immigration laws 
or a requirement that the business person meet certain salary criteria.  
   
7.   Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 5, a Party may establish an annual numerical limit, 
which shall be set out in Appendix 11A.3, regarding temporary entry of business persons of the 
other Party seeking to engage in business activities as a professional.  
   
8.   A Party establishing a numerical limit pursuant to paragraph 7, unless the Parties agree 
otherwise, may, in consultation with the other Party, grant temporary entry under paragraph 1 to  
 
 
128 
a business person who practices in a profession where accreditation, licensing, and certification 
requirements are mutually recognized by the Parties.  
   
9.   Nothing in paragraph 7 or 8 shall be construed to limit the ability of a business person to 
seek temporary entry under a Party’s applicable immigration measures relating to the entry of 
professionals other than those adopted or maintained pursuant to paragraph 1.   