 
 
 
19 
 
CHAPTER 3 : RULES OF ORIGIN  
 
SECTION A : ORIGIN DETERMINATION 
 
ARTICLE 3.1 : ORIGINATING GOODS 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, an originating good means a good:  
 
(a)   wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties; 
or  
 
(b)   that has satisfied the requireme nts specified in Annex 3A; or  
 
(c)   otherwise provided as an originating good under this Chapter.  
 
ARTICLE 3.2 : TREATMENT OF CERTAIN PRODUCTS 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that a good listed in Annex 3B is an originating good when 
imported into its territory from the territory of the other Party.  
   
2.   Within six months after entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall meet to 
explore the expansion of the product coverage of Annex 3B.  The Parties shall consult regularly 
to review the operation of this Article and consider the addition of goods to Annex 3B.3-1 
 
ARTICLE 3.3 : DE MINIMIS 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification 
pursuant to Annex 3A is nonetheless an originating good if:   
 
(a)   the value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that 
do not undergo the required change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 
percent of the adjusted value of the good; and   
 
(b)   the good meets all other applicable criteria set forth in this Chapter for qualifying 
as an originating good.    
 
The value of such non-originating materials shall, however, be included in the value of non- 
originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Such consultations may include meetings of the Joint Committee pursuant to Article 20.1 
3-1
(Joint Committee).       
     
     
   
20 
   
   
2.   Paragraph 1 does not apply to:  
 
(a)   a non-originating material provided for in chapter 4 of the Harmonized System or 
in subheading 1901.90 that is used in the production of a good provided for in 
chapter 4 of the Harmonized System;  
 
(b)   a non-originating material provided for in chapter 4 of the Harmonized System or 
in subheading 1901.90 that is used in the production of a good provided for in the 
following provisions:  subheadings 1901.10, 1901.20 or 1901.90; heading 2105; 
or subheadings 2106.90, 2202.90, or 2309.90;  
 
(c)   a non-originating material provided for in heading 0805 or subheadings 2009.11 
through 2009.30 that is used in the production of a good provided for in 
subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.30, or subheadings 2106.90 or 2202.90;  
 
(d)   a non-originating material provided for in chapter 15 of the Harmonized System 
that is used in the production of a good provided for in headings 1501 through 
1508, 1512, 1514 or 1515;  
 
(e)   a non-originating material provided for in heading 1701 that is used in the 
production of a good provided for in headings 1701 through 1703;  
 
(f)   a non-originating material provided for in chapter 17 of the Harmonized System 
or heading 1805 that is used in the production of a good provided for in 
subheading 1806.10;  
 
(g)   a non-originating material provided for in headings 2203 through 2208 that is 
used in the production of a good provided for in headings 2207 or 2208; and  
 
(h)   a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in 
Chapters 1 through 21 of the Harmonized System unless the non-originating 
material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is 
being determined under this Article.  
 
For purposes of this paragraph, heading and subheading mean, respectively, a heading and 
subheading of the Harmo nized System.   
   
3.   A textile or apparel good provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonized 
System that is not an originating good, because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of 
the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an 
applicable change in tariff classification set out in Annex 3A, shall nonetheless be considered to 
be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not 
more than seven percent of the total weight of that component.  Notwithstanding the preceding 
sentence, a textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good  
 
 
21 
 
that determines the tariff classification of the good shall be an originating good only if such yarns 
are wholly formed in the territory of a Party.  
 
ARTICLE 3.4 : ACCUMULATION 
   
1.   Originating materials from the territory of a Party, used in the production of a good in the 
territory of the other Party, shall be considered to originate in the territory of the other Party.  
   
2.   A good is an originating good when it is produced in the territory of one or both Parties 
by one or more producers, provided that the good satisfies the requirements in Article 3.1 and all 
other applicable requirements of this Chapter.  
 
ARTICLE 3.5 : REGIONAL VALUE CONTENT 
 
Where Annex 3A refers to a regional value content, each Party shall provide that the regional 
value content of a good shall be calculated on the basis of one of the following methods:  
 
(a)   Build-down Method  
 
RVC   =   AV - VNM  x  100  
          AV  
 
where  
 
RVC  is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage;  
 
AV   is the adjusted value, and  
 
VNM  is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the 
producer in the production of the good.  
 
 
(b)   Build-up Method  
 
RVC   =     VOM  x  100  
        AV  
 
where  
 
RVC  is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage;  
 
AV   is the adjusted value; and  
 
VOM  is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced, and 
used by the producer in the production of the good.     
   
   
 
22 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.6 : VALUE OF MATERIALS 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that for purposes of calculating the regional value content of a 
good and for purposes of applying the de minimis rule, the value of a material is:  
 
(a)   for a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the 
material;  
 
(b)   for a material acquired in the territory where the good is produced, except for 
materials within the meaning of subparagraph (c), the adjusted value of the 
material; or  
 
(c)   for a material that is self-produced, or where the relationship between the 
producer of the good and the seller of the material influenced the price actually 
paid or payable for the material, including a material obtained without charge, the 
sum of:  
   
(i)   all expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general 
expenses; and  
   
  (ii)   an amount for profit.  
 
 
2.   Each Party shall provide that the value of materials may be adjusted as follows:  
 
(a)   for originating materials, the following expenses may be added to the value of the 
material if not included under paragraph 1:  
 
(i)   the costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in 
transporting the material to the location of the producer;  
 
(ii)   duties, taxes and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the 
territory of one or more of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are 
waived, refunded, refundable or otherwise recoverable, including credit 
against duty or tax paid or payable; and  
 
(iii)   the cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the 
production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-product; 
and  
 
(b)   for non-originating materials, where included under paragraph 1, the following 
expenses may be deducted from the value of the material: 
 
(i)   the costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in 
transporting the material to the location of the producer;   
 
 
23 
 
(ii)   duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the 
territory of one or more of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are 
waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit 
against duty or tax paid or payable;  
 
(iii)   the cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the 
production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products;  
 
(iv)   the cost of processing incurred in the territory of a Party in the production 
of the non-originating material; and  
 
(v)   the cost of originating materials used in the production of the non- 
originating material in the territory of a Party.  
 
ARTICLE 3.7 : ACCESSORIES, SPARE PARTS, AND TOOLS 
 
Each Party shall provide that accessories, spare parts, or tools delivered with a good that form 
part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools, shall be treated as originating goods 
if the good is an originating good, and shall be disregarded in determining whether all the non- 
originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff 
classification, provided that:  
 
(a)   the accessories, spare parts, or tools are not invoiced separately from the good;  
 
(b)   the quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for 
the good; and  
 
(c)   if the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the 
accessories, spare parts, or tools shall be taken into account as originating or non- 
originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content 
of the good.  
 
ARTICLE 3.8 : FUNGIBLE GOODS AND MATERIALS 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that the determination of whether fungible goods or materials 
are originating goods shall be made either by physical segregation of each good or material or 
through the use of any inventory management method, such as averaging, last-in, first-out, or 
first-in, first out, recognized in the generally accepted accounting principles of the Party in which 
the production is performed or otherwise accepted by the Party in which the production is 
performed.  
   
2.   Each Party shall provide that that an inventory management method selected under 
paragraph 1 for particular fungible goods or materials shall continue to be used for those fungible 
goods or materials throughout the fiscal year of the person that selected the inventory 
management method.   
 
 
24 
 
ARTICLE 3.9 : PACKAGING MATERIALS AND CONTAINERS FOR RETAIL SALE 
 
Each Party shall provide that packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for 
retail sale, if classified with the good, shall be disregarded in determining whether all the non- 
originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff 
classification set out in Annex 3A and, if the good is subject to a regional value-content 
requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers shall be taken into account as 
originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value 
content of the good.  
 
ARTICLE 3.10 : PACKING MATERIALS AND CONTAINERS FOR SHIPMENT 
 
Each Party shall provide that packing materials and containers in which a good is packed for 
shipment shall be disregarded in determining whether:  
 
(a)   the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an 
applicable change in tariff classification set out in Annex 3A; and  
 
(b)   the good satisfies a regional value content requirement.  
 
ARTICLE 3.11 : INDIRECT MATERIALS 
 
Each Party shall provide that an indirect material shall be treated as an originating material 
without regard to where it is produced and its value shall be the cost registered in the accounting 
records of the producer of the good.  
 
ARTICLE 3.12 : THIRD COUNTRY TRANSPORTATION 
 
A good shall not be considered to be an originating good if the good undergoes subsequent 
production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, 
reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve it in good condition or to transport the 
good to the territory of a Party.  
 
SECTION B : SUPPORTING INFORMATION AND VERIFICATION 
 
ARTICLE 3.13 : CLAIMS FOR PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that an importer may make a claim for preferential treatment 
under this Agreement based on the importer’s knowledge or on information in the importer’s 
possession that the good qualifies as an originating good.  
   
2.   Each Party may require that an importer be prepared to submit, upon request, a statement 
setting forth the reasons that the good qualifies as an originating good, including pertinent cost 
and manufacturing information.  The statement need not be in a prescribed format, and may be 
submitted electronically, where feasible.   
 
 
25 
 
ARTICLE 3.14 : OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO IMPORTATIONS 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant any claim for preferential treatment under this Agreement made in 
accordance with this Section, unless the Party possesses information that the claim is invalid.  
   
2.   A Party may deny preferential treatment under this Agreement to an imported good if the 
importer fails to comply with any requirement of this Chapter.  
   
3.   If a Party denies a claim for preferential treatment under this Agreement, it shall issue a 
written determination containing findings of fact and the legal basis for the determination.  
   
4.   The importing Party shall not subject an importer to any penalty for making an invalid 
claim for preferential treatment if the importer:   
 
(a)    upon becoming aware that such claim is not valid, promptly and voluntarily 
corrects the claim and pays any duty owing; and 
 
(b)    in any event, corrects the claim and pays any duty owing within a period 
determined by the Party, which shall be at least one year from submission of the 
invalid claim.    
 
ARTICLE 3.15 : RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT 
 
Each Party may require that importers maintain for up to five years after the date of importation 
records relating to the importation of the good, and may require that an importer provide, upon 
request, records which are necessary to demonstrate that a good qualifies as an originating good, 
as stipulated in Article 3.13.2, including records concerning:  
 
(a)   the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, the good;  
 
(b)   the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all materials, including 
indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and  
 
(c)   the production of the good in the form in which the good is exported.  
 
ARTICLE 3.16 : VERIFICATION 
 
For purposes of determining whether a good imported into its territory from the territory of the 
other Party qualifies as an originating good, a Party may conduct a verification by means of:  
 
(a)   requests for information from the importer;  
 
(b)   written requests for information to an exporter or a producer in the territory of the 
other Party;   
 
 
26 
 
(c)   requests for the importer to arrange for the producer or exporter to provide 
information directly to the Party conducting the verification;  
 
(d)   information received directly by the importing Party from an exporter or a 
producer as a result of a process described in Article 3.13.2;  
 
(e)   visits to the premises of an exporter or a producer in the territory of the other 
Party, in accordance with any procedures that the Parties jointly adopt pertaining 
to the verification; or  
 
(f)   such other procedures as the Parties may agree.  
 
ARTICLE 3.17: CERTAIN APPAREL GOODS 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the United States shall consider an 
apparel good listed in Chapter 61 or 62 of Annex 3A to be an originating good if it is both cut (or 
knit to shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in one or both Parties from fabric or yarn, 
regardless of origin, designated by the appropriate U.S. government authority as fabric or yarn 
not available in commercial quantities in a timely manner in the United States.  Such designation 
must have been made in a notice published in the Federal Register of the United States 
identifying apparel goods made from such fabric or yarn as eligible for entry into the United 
States under subheading 9819.11.24 or 9820.11.27 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the 
United States as of November 15, 2002.  For purposes of this Article, reference in such a notice 
to yarn or fabric formed in the United States shall be deemed to include yarn or fabric formed in 
either Party.  
 
SECTION C : CONSULTATION AND MODIFICATIONS 
 
ARTICLE 3.18 : CONSULTATION AND MODIFICATIONS 
   
1.   The Parties shall consult and cooperate to ensure that this Chapter is applied in an 
effective and uniform manner.  
   
2.   The Parties shall consult regularly to discuss necessary amendments to this Chapter and 
its Annexes, taking into account developments in technology, production processes, and other 
related matters, pursuant to Article 20.3 (Consultations).  
   
3.   Within six months after entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall meet:   
 
(a)   to consider possible modifications to Annex 3A, including an assessment of the 
operation and use of the RVC;  
 
(b)   the addition of products to Annex 3B; and 
 
(c)   to review and consider possible modifications to Annex 3C.      
   
   
 
27 
 
   
4.   (a)   On the request of either Party, the Parties shall consult:   
 
(i)   to consider whether the rules of origin applicable to particular textile or 
apparel goods under this Chapter should be revised  to address availability 
of supply of fibers, yarns or fabrics in the territories of the Parties; or  
 
(ii)    to review the rules of origin applicable to particular textile or apparel 
goods in light of   
 
(A)   the effects of increasing global competition,   
 
(B)   the termination  of the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing 
and the full integration of the textile and apparel sector into GATT 
1994, and   
 
(C)   eventual harmonization of rules of origin pursuant to Part IV of the 
WTO Agreement on Rules of Origin.   
 
(b)   In the consultations referred to in subparagraph (a)(i), each Party shall consider all 
data presented by the other Party showing substantial production in its territory of 
a particular fiber, yarn or fabric.  The Parties shall consider that substantial 
production has been shown if a Party demonstrates that its domestic producers are 
capable of supplying commercial quantities of the fiber, yarn or fabric in a timely 
manner.  
 
(c)    The Parties shall endeavor to conclude consultations under subparagraph (a)(i) 
within 60 days of receipt of a request by one Party from the other Party.  An 
amended rule of origin agreed to by the Parties shall supersede any prior rule of 
origin under this Agreement for the textile or apparel goods at issue, on approval 
by the Parties in accordance with Article 21.8 (Amendments).  
 
(d)   In consultations under subparagraph (a)(ii), the Parties shall give particular 
consideration to operative rules in other economic association or integration 
agreements and developments relating to textile and apparel production and trade. 
 
SECTION D : DEFINITIONS 
 
ARTICLE 3.19 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
   
1.   adjusted value  means the value determined under Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and 
the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, as adjusted to 
exclude any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance, and related  
 
 
28 
 
services incident to the international shipment of the merchandise from the country of 
exportation to the place of importation;  
   
2.   fungible goods or materials means goods or materials that are interchangeable for 
commercial purposes and whose properties are essentially identical;  
   
3.   generally accepted accounting principles means the recognized consensus or 
substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of 
revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information and the preparation 
of financial statements.  These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application 
as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;   
   
4.   goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the 
Parties means goods that are:  
 
(a)   mineral goods extracted there;  
 
(b)   vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the Harmonized System, harvested 
there;  
 
(c)   live animals born and raised there;  
 
(d)   goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted there;  
 
(e)   goods (fish, shellfish, and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels 
registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;  
 
(f)   goods produced exclusively from products referred to in paragraph (e) on board 
factory ships registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;  
 
(g)   goods taken by a Party, or a person of a Party, from the seabed or beneath the 
seabed outside territorial waters, provided that the Party has rights to exploit such 
seabed;  
 
(h)   goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person 
of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;  
   
(i)   waste and scrap derived from  
   
  (i)   production there; or  
 
 
 
(ii)   used goods collected there, provided such goods are fit only for the 
 
  recovery of raw materials;  
   
(j)   recovered goods derived there from used goods; or     
   
   
 
29 
 
   
  (k)   goods produced there exclusively from goods referred to in (a) through (i) above, 
 
or from their derivatives, at any stage of production.  
 
 
5.   Harmonized System means the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding 
System;  
   
6.   indirect material means a good used in the production, testing or inspection of a good 
but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or 
the operation of equipment associated with the production of a good, including:  
 
(a)   fuel and energy;  
 
(b)   tools, dies, and molds;  
 
(c)   spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;  
 
(d)   lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in 
production or used to operate equipment and buildings;  
 
(e)   gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;  
 
(f)   equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the goods;  
 
(g)   catalysts and solvents; and  
 
(h)   any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but whose use in the 
production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that 
production;  
   
7.   material means a good that is used in the production of another good;   
   
8.   material that is self-produced means a good, such as a part or ingredient, produced by 
the producer and used by the producer in the production of another good  
   
9.   non-originating material means a material that has not satisfied the requirements of this 
Chapter;  
 
10.   preferential treatment means the customs duty rate and treatment under Article 2.8 
(Merchandise Processing Fee) that is applicable to an originating good pursuant to this 
Agreement;  
 
11.   producer means a person who grows, raises, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, 
manufactures, processes, assembles or disassembles a good;  
 
12.   production means growing, raising, mining, harvesting, fishing, trapping, hunting, 
manufacturing, processing, assembling or disassembling a good;   
 
 
30 
 
13.   recovered goods means materials in the form of individual parts that result from:  
 
(a)   the complete disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and  
 
(b)   the cleaning, inspecting, or testing, and as necessary for improvement to sound 
working condition one or more of the following processes:  welding, flame 
spraying, surface machining, knurling, plating, sleeving, and rewinding in order 
for such parts to be assembled with other parts, including other recovered parts in 
the production of a remanufactured good of Annex 3C;  
 
14.   remanufactured good means an industrial good assembled in the territory of a Party, 
designated under Annex 3C, that:  
 
(a)   is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods;  
 
(b)   has the same life expectancy and meets the same performance standards as a new 
good; and  
 
(c)   enjoys the same factory warranty as such a new good; and  
 
15.   used means used or consumed in the production of goods. 
 
SECTION E : APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION 
 
ARTICLE 3.20 : APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
(a)   the basis for tariff classification is the Harmonized System;  
 
(b)   any cost and value referred to in this Chapter shall be recorded and maintained in 
accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the 
territory of the Party in which the good is produced.     
   
   
 
31 
 
 
ANNEX 3A  
 
PRODUCT-SPECIFIC RULES 
 
Annex 3A is attached as a separate volume.     
   
   
 
32 
 
 
ANNEX 3B  
 
INTEGRATED SOURCING INITIATIVE 
 
Annex 3B is attached as a separate volume.     
   
   
 
33 
 
 
ANNEX 3C  
 
REMANUFACTURED PRODUCTS 
 
Annex 3C is attached as a separate volume.  