   
ANNEX 10B 
PART I:  UNITED STATES SCHEDULE OF NON-CONFORMING MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES 
(EXCLUDING INSURANCE) 
A.   Headnotes 
 
1.  Commitments in these subsectors under the Agreement are undertaken subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in these headnotes 
and in Section B below. 
2.  National treatment commitments in these subsectors are subject to the following limitations: National treatment will be provided based 
upon the foreign bank’s “home state” in the United States, as that term is defined under the International Banking Act, where that Act is 
applicable.  A domestic bank subsidiary of a foreign firm will have its own “home state,” and national treatment will be provided based upon the 
subsidiary’s home state, as determined under applicable law.1 
3.  To clarify the U.S. commitment with respect to Article 10.4 of the Agreement (Market Access), juridical persons supplying banking or 
other financial services (excluding insurance) and constituted under the laws of the United States are subject to non-discriminatory limitations on 
juridical form.2 
4.  The United States undertakes no commitment with respect to any existing non-conforming measures maintained at a regional level. 
5.  The United States limits its commitment under Article 10.9.1(c) (Non-Conforming Measures) with respect to Article 10.4 (Market Access) 
in the following manner: Article 10.9.1(c) shall apply only to non-conforming measures relating to 10.4(a) and not to those non-conforming 
measures relating to Article 10.4(b). 
                                                             
  1 Foreign banking organizations are generally subject to geographic and other limitations in the United States on a national treatment basis.  Where 
such limitations do not conform to national treatment, they have been reserved as market access restrictions.  For purposes of illustration, under this approach, 
the following situation does not accord national treatment and would therefore be scheduled as a limitation: a foreign bank from a particular home state is 
accorded less favorable treatment than that accorded to a domestic bank from that state with respect to expansion by branching. 
  2 For example, partnerships and sole proprietorships are generally not acceptable juridical forms for depository financial institutions in the United 
States.  This headnote is not itself intended to affect, or otherwise limit, a choice by a financial institution of the other Party between branches or subsidiaries. 
10B-United States-1      
 
B.   List of Non-Conforming Measures 
                                Obligations Concerned 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       Description of Non-Conforming Measures 
 
 
All directors of a national bank must be U.S. citizens, except that the Comptroller of the Currency 
may waive the citizenship requirement for not more than a minority of the total number of directors. 
Measure: 12 U.S.C. 72 
Foreign ownership of Edge corporations is limited to foreign banks and U.S. subsidiaries of foreign 
banks, while domestic non-bank firms may own such corporations.  Measure: 12 U.S.C. 619 
Federal and state law do not permit a credit union, savings bank, or savings association (both of the 
latter two entities may be also called thrift institutions) in the United States to be provided through 
branches of corporations organized under a foreign country’s law. Measures: 12 U.S.C. 1463 et 
seq. & 12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq. 
In order to accept or maintain domestic retail deposits of less than $100,000, a foreign bank must 
establish an insured banking subsidiary.  This requirement does not apply to a foreign bank branch 
that was engaged in insured deposit-taking activities on December 19, 1991.  Measure: 12 U.S.C. 
3104(d) 
Foreign banks are required to register as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 
1940 to engage in securities advisory and investment management services in the United States, 
while domestic banks (or a separately identifiable department or division of the bank) are exempt 
from registration unless they advise registered investment companies.  The registration requirement 
involves record maintenance, inspections, submission of reports and payment of a fee. Measure: 15 
U.S.C. 80b-2, 80b-3 
10B-United States-2      
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       Description of Non-Conforming Measures 
 
 
Foreign banks cannot be members of the Federal Reserve System, and thus may not vote for 
directors of a Federal Reserve Bank.  Foreign-owned bank subsidiaries are not subject to this 
measure.  Measure: 12 U.S.C. 221, 302, 321 
The United States undertakes no commitment with respect to paragraph (b) of Article IV of the 
Agreement in relation to the expansion, via the establishment of a branch or the acquisition of one or 
more branches of a bank without acquisition of the entire bank, by a foreign bank into another state 
from its “home state,” as that term is defined under applicable law.  Except as specifically set forth 
elsewhere in this schedule, such expansion shall be provided on a national treatment basis in 
accordance with headnote 2.   
Measure: 12 U.S.C. 36(g); 12 U.S.C. 1828(d)(4); 12 U.S.C. 1831u(a)(4) 
Interstate expansion by a foreign bank through the establishment of branches by merger with a bank 
located outside the “home state,” as that term is defined under applicable law, of a foreign bank shall  
be provided on a national treatment basis in accordance with headnote 2, except as specifically set 
forth elsewhere in this schedule.  Measure: 12 U.S.C. 1831u 
Establishment of a federal branch or agency by a foreign bank is not available in the following states 
that may prohibit establishment of a branch or agency by a foreign bank: 
•  Branches and agencies may be prohibited in Alabama, Kansas, North Dakota, and Wyoming. 
•  Branches, but not agencies, may be prohibited in Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Louisiana, 
Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, and West Virginia. 
Measures: 12 U.S.C. 3102(a)(1); 12 U.S.C. 3103(a) 
Certain restrictions on fiduciary powers apply to federal agencies. 
Measure: 12 U.S.C. 3102(d) 
The authority to act as a sole trustee of an indenture for a bond offering in the United States is 
subject to a reciprocity test.  Measure: 15 U.S.C. 77jjj(a)(1) 
Designation as a primary dealer in U.S. government debt securities is conditioned on reciprocity. 
10B-United States-3      
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       Description of Non-Conforming Measures 
 
 
Measure: 22 U.S.C. 5341-5342 
A broker-dealer registered under U.S. law that has its principal place of business in Canada may 
maintain its required reserves in a bank in Canada subject to the supervision of Canada. Measure: 
15 U.S.C. 78o(c) 
The United States may grant advantages, including but not limited to the following, to one or more 
of the Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) listed below: 
•  Capital, reserves and income of the GSE are exempt from certain taxation. 
•  Securities issued by the GSE are exempt from registration and periodic reporting requirements 
under federal securities laws. 
•  The U.S. Treasury may, in its discretion, purchase obligations issued by the GSE. 
Measures: 12 U.S.C.   1421 et seq. (Federal Home Loan Banks); 12 U.S.C.   1451 et seq. 
(Federal  Home  Loan  Mortgage  Corporation;  12  U.S.C.      1717  et  seq.  (Federal  National 
Mortgage Association); 12 U.S.C.   2011 et seq. (Farm Credit Banks); 12 U.S.C.   2279aa-1 et 
seq. (Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation); 20 U.S.C.   1087-2 et seq. (Student Loan 
Marketing Association) 
 
 
 
10B-United States-4      
PART II:  UNITED STATES SCHEDULE OF NON-CONFORMING MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO INSURANCE 
Headnotes 
1.  Commitments in this sector under this Agreement are undertaken subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in these headnotes and 
the schedule below. 
2.  National treatment commitments in the insurance sector are subject to the following limitation: national treatment with respect to insurance 
financial institutions will be provided according to a non-U.S. insurance financial institution’s state of domicile, where applicable, in the United 
States.  State of domicile is defined by individual states, and is generally the state in which an insurer either is incorporated, is organized or 
maintains its principal office in the United States.  
3.  Market access commitments in the insurance sector are subject to the following limitation:  Article 10.9.1(c) shall not apply to non-conforming 
measures relating to Article 10.4. 
 
10B-United States-5      
 
 
10B-United States-6      
 
 
10B-United States-7      
 
 
10B-United States-8      
 
 
10B-United States-9   