   
   
   
 
117 
ANNEX 10C  
 
SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
SINGAPORE  
 
Related to Article 10.1 (Scope and Coverage)  
   
1.   This Chapter shall apply to the following services to the extent they are covered by the 
obligations of this Chapter through application of the exception in Article 10.1.3:  
 
- Sale and distribution services for government debt.  
 
Related to Article 10.4 (Market Access)  
 
2.    Notwithstanding item 1 of the non-conforming measures related to banking listed in 
Singapore’s Schedule to Annex 10B, Singapore shall approve, by the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement, one new full bank license and two additional customer service locations for a 
financial institution of the United States.  
 
Related to Article 10.5 (Cross Border Trade)  
   
3.   No later than January 1, 2006, the Parties shall consult on further liberalization by 
Singapore of cross-border trade in the services described in paragraph 3(f) of Singapore’s 
Schedule to Annex 10A.  
 
Related to Article 10.15 (Expedited Availability of Insurance Services)  
 
4.    Singapore shall not require product filing or approval for insurance products other than 
for life insurance products, Central Provident Fund-related products and investment-linked 
products.  Where product filing or approval is required, Singapore shall allow the introduction of 
the product, which Singapore shall deem to be approved unless the product is disapproved within 
a reasonable time, endeavoring to do so within 30 days.  Singapore shall not maintain limitations 
on the number or frequency of product introductions.  This specific commitment does not apply 
where a financial institution of the United States seeks to supply a new financial service pursuant 
to Article 10.6 (New Financial Services).  
 
Related to Article 10.17 (Consultations)  
   
5.   No later than January 1, 2007, and every three years thereafter, the Parties shall consult 
concerning any existing limitations on acquisitions of control by United States financial 
institutions of Singapore-incorporated banks that are controlled by persons of Singapore.  
 
Related to Portfolio Management  
   
6.   (a)   Singapore shall allow, in a manner consistent with Article 10.1, a financial 
institution (other than a trust company or insurance company), organized outside  
 
 
118 
its territory, to provide investment advice and portfolio management services, 
excluding (1) custodial services, (2) trustee services, and (3) execution services 
that are not related to managing a collective investment scheme, to the manager of 
a collective investment scheme, where the manager is  
 
(i)    located in the territory of Singapore, and  
 
(ii)    related to the financial institution.  
 
(b)    For purposes of this paragraph,   
   
(i)   collective investment scheme  has the meaning given to it under Section 2 
of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289); and  
   
  (ii)   related means a related corporation as defined under Section 6 of the 
 
Companies Act (Cap. 50).  
 
 
7.   Singapore shall accord most-favored-nation treatment to financial institutions of the 
United States in the award of asset management mandates by the Government of Singapore 
Investment Corporation.  
 
Related to Credit and Charge Cards  
   
8.   Singapore shall consider applications for access to automated teller machine networks 
operated by local banks in the territory of Singapore for credit and charge cards of non-bank 
issuers that are controlled by persons of the United States.   
 
UNITED STATES  
 
Related to Article 10.1 (Scope and Coverage)  
   
1.   For the United States, this chapter shall apply to the following services to the extent they 
are covered by the obligations of this chapter through application of the exception in Article 
10.1.3:  
 
(a)   fiscal agency or depository services,   
 
(b)   liquidation and management services for regulated financial institutions; and  
 
(c)    sale and distribution services for government debt.  
 
Related to Article 10.15 (Expedited Availability of Insurance Services)  
   
2.   Recognizing the principles of federalism under the U.S. Constitution, the history of state 
regulation of insurance in the United States, and the McCarran-Ferguson Act, the United States 
welcomes the efforts of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) relating 
to the availability of insurance services as expressed in the NAIC’s “Statement of Intent: The 
Future of Insurance Regulation.”, including the initiatives on speed-to-market intentions and  
 
 
119 
regulatory re-engineering (under Part II of the Statement of Intent). This specific commitment 
does not apply where a financial institution of Singapore seeks to supply a new financial service 
pursuant to Article 10.6.  
 
Related to Portfolio Management  
   
3.   (a)   The United States shall allow, in a manner consistent with Article 10.1, a financial 
institution (other than a trust company or insurance company), organized outside 
its territory, to provide investment advice and portfolio management services, 
excluding (1) custodial services, (2) trustee services, and (3) execution services 
that are not related to managing a collective investment scheme, to a collective 
investment scheme located in the territory of the United States.    
 
(b)   For purposes of this paragraph, collective investment scheme  means an 
investment company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  