   
   
   
 
214 
 
 
ANNEX 17A  
 
UNITED STATES – SINGAPORE LABOR COOPERATION MECHANISM 
 
1.    Establishment of a Labor Cooperation Mechanism.  Recognizing that cooperation 
provides enhanced opportunities to improve labor standards, and to further advance common 
commitments, including the June 1998 ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work and its Follow-up, the Parties establish a Labor Cooperation Mechanism.  
 
2.    (a)   Organization and Principal Functions.   The contact points established under 
Article 17.4.2 shall serve as the contact points for the Labor Cooperation 
Mechanism.  
 
(b)    Officials of the labor ministries and other appropriate agencies and ministries 
shall cooperate through the Labor Cooperation Mechanism to: 
 
(i)    establish priorities for cooperative activities on labor matters;  
 
(ii)    develop specific cooperative activities in accord with such priorities;   
 
(iii)   exchange information regarding labor law and practice in each Party;   
 
(iv)   exchange information on ways to improve labor law and practice, 
including best labor practices;   
 
(v)   advance understanding of, respect for, and effective implementation of the 
principles reflected in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work and its Follow-up; and   
 
(vi)   develop recommendations for their respective governments for 
consideration by the Joint Committee.   
 
3.    Cooperative Activities.  Cooperative activities to be undertaken by the Labor 
Cooperation Mechanism may include the following subjects:   
   
(a)  fundamental rights and their effective application:  legislation, practice, and 
implementation related to the core elements of the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Rights at Work (freedom of association and the effective recognition 
of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced or 
compulsory labor, abolition of child labor including the worst forms of child labor 
in compliance with ILO Convention No. 182, and elimination of employment 
discrimination);  
 
(b)   labor-management relations:  forms of cooperation and dispute resolution 
among workers, management and governments;       
     
     
   
215 
(c)  working conditions:    occupational safety and health; prevention of 
  and compensation for work-related injuries and illness; and employment 
  conditions;  
 
 
(d)  unemployment assistance programs and other social safety net programs;  
 
(e)    human resource development and life long learning; 
 
(f)     labor statistics; and  
 
(g)   such other matters as the Parties may agree.   
 
4.    Implementation of Cooperative Activities. 
 
(a)    Cooperative activities agreed upon under paragraph 3 may be implemented 
through:   
   
(i)   exchanges of delegations, professionals, and specialists, including study 
visits and other technical exchanges;  
 
(ii)   exchange of information, standards, regulations and procedures, and best 
practices, including publications and monographs;   
 
(iii)   organization of joint conferences, seminars, workshops, meetings, training 
sessions, and outreach and education programs;  
 
(iv)   development of collaborative projects or demonstrations;   
 
(v)   joint research projects, studies, and reports, including through engagement 
of independent experts with recognized expertise; and  
 
(vi)   other forms of technical exchange or cooperation that may be decided.    
 
(b)    In identifying areas for cooperation and carrying out cooperative activities, the 
Parties shall consider views of their respective worker and employer 
representatives.  