   
   
   
 
73 
ANNEX 8A  
   
1.   A Party’s Schedule to this Annex sets out, pursuant to Articles 8.7.1 and 15.12.1 (Non- 
Conforming Measures), a Party’s existing measures that are not subject to some or all of the 
obligations imposed by:  
 
(a)   Article 8.3 (National Treatment) or 15.4.1 (National Treatment and Most- 
Favored-Nation Treatment);  
 
(b)   Article 8.4  (Most-Favored-Nation Treatment) or 15.4.3 (National Treatment and 
Most-Favored-Nation Treatment);  
 
(c)   Article 8.5 (Market Access);  
 
(d)   Article 8.6 (Local Presence);  
 
(e)   Article 15.8 (Performance Requirements); or  
 
(f)   Article 15.9 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors).  
   
2.   Each Schedule entry sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)   sector refers to the sector for which the entry is made;  
 
(b)   sub-sector, for Singapore, refers to the subsector for which the entry is made;  
 
(c)   industry classification refers, for Singapore, where applicable, to the activity 
covered by the non-conforming measure, according to the provisional CPC codes 
as used in the Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical Papers Series 
M No. 77, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical 
Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991);  
 
(d)   obligations concerned specifies the obligation(s) referred to in paragraph 1 that, 
pursuant to Article 8.7.1(a) (Non-Conforming Measures) or 15.12.1(a) (Non- 
Conforming Measures), as the case may be, do not apply to the listed measure(s);  
 
(e)   level of government indicates the level of government maintaining the listed 
measure(s);  
 
(f)   measures identifies the laws, regulations or other measures for which the entry is 
made.  A measure cited in the measures element:  
 
(i)   means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement, and  
 
(ii)   includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the 
authority of and consistent with the measure;     
   
   
 
74 
 
  (g)   description, for Singapore, sets out the non-conforming aspects of the measure 
  for which the entry is made; and description, for the United States, provides a 
 
general, non-binding, description of the measures; and  
 
   
  (h)   phase-out sets out commitments, if any, for liberalization after the date of entry 
  into force of this Agreement.  
 
 
3.   In accordance with Article 8.7.1(a) (Non-Conforming Measures) and 15.12.1(a) (Non- 
Conforming Measures), the articles of this Agreement specified in the “obligations concerned” 
element of an entry do not apply to the law, regulation or other measure identified in the 
“measures” or “description” element of that entry. 
   
4.   Where a Party maintains a measure that requires that a service provider be a citizen, 
permanent resident, or resident of its territory as a condition to the provision of a service in its 
territory, a Schedule entry for that measure taken in the Schedule to Annex 8A or 8B with 
respect to Articles 8.3, 8.4 or 8.6 shall operate as a Schedule entry with respect to Articles 15.4 
(National Treatme nt and Most-Favored-Nation Treatment) or15.8 (Performance Requirements) 
to the extent of that measure.  