    ANNEX 8C   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES  DEVELOPMENT OF PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS    77  1.   The Parties shall encourage the relevant bodies in their respective territories to develop mutually acceptable standards and criteria for licensing and certification of professional service providers and to provide recommendations on mutual recognition to the Joint Committee.   2.   The standards and criteria referred to in paragraph 1 may be developed with regard to the following matters:   (a)  education - accreditation of schools or academic programs;   (b)  examinations - qualifying examinations for licensing, including alternative methods of assessment such as oral examinations and interviews;   (c)  experience - length and nature of experience required for licensing;   (d)  conduct and ethics - standards of professional conduct and the nature of disciplinary action for non-conformity with those standards;   (e)  professional development and re-certification - continuing education and ongoing requirements to maintain professional certification;   (f)  scope of practice - extent of, or limitations on, permissible activities;   (g)  local knowledge - requirements for knowledge of such matters as local laws, regulations, language, geography or climate; and   (h)  consumer protection - alternatives to residency requirements, including bonding, professional liability insurance and client restitution funds, to provide for the protection of consumers.   3.   On receipt of a recommendation referred to in paragraph 1, the Joint Committee shall review the recommendation within a reasonable time to determine whether it is consistent with this Agreement.  Based on the Joint Committee’s review, each Party shall encourage its respective competent authorities, where appropriate, to implement the recommendation within a mutually agreed time.   TEMPORARY LICENSING  4.   Where the Parties agree, each Party shall encourage the relevant bodies in its territory to develop procedures for the temporary licensing of professional service providers of another Party.      REVIEW    78  5.   The Joint Committee shall, at least once every three years, review the implementation of this Section.  