   
   
   
 
181 
 
 
ANNEX 15A  
 
TRANSFERS 
   
1.   Where a claimant submits a claim alleging that Singapore has breached an obligation 
under Section B, other than Article 15.4, that arises from its imposition of restrictive measures 
with regard to outward payments and transfers, Section C shall apply except as modified below:  
 
(a)   A claimant may submit the claim under Article 15.15 only after one year has 
elapsed since the measure was adopted.  
 
(b)   If the claim is submitted under Article 15.15.1(b), the claimant may, on behalf of 
the enterprise, only seek damages with respect to the shares of the enterprise for 
which the claimant has a beneficial interest.   
 
(c)   Paragraph 1(a) shall not apply to claims that arise from restrictions on:   
   
(i)   payments or transfers on current transactions, including the transfer of 
profits and dividends of foreign direct investment by investors of the 
United States;  
 
(ii)   transfers of proceeds of foreign direct investment by investors of the 
United States, excluding investments designed with the purpose of gaining 
direct or indirect access to the financial market; or    
(iii)   payments pursuant to a loan or bond    regardless of where it is issued, 
15-13
including inter- and intra-company debt financing between affiliated 
enterprises, when such payments are made exclusively for the conduct, 
operation, management, or expansion of such affiliated enterprises, 
provided that these payments are made in accordance with the maturity 
date agreed on in the loan or bond agreement.   
 
(d)   Excluding restrictive measures referred to in paragraph 1(c), Singapore shall incur 
no liability, and shall not be subject to claims, for damages arising from its 
imposition of restrictive measures with regard to outward payments and transfers 
that were incurred within one year from the date on which restrictions were 
imposed, provided that such restrictive measures do not substantially impede 
transfers.  
 
 
 
  For greater certainty, payments pursuant to a loan or bond shall exclude capital account 
15-13
transactions relating to inter-bank loans, including loans to or from Singapore licensed banks, 
merchant banks, or finance companies.     
   
   
 
182 
 
   
 
(e)   Claims arising from Singapore’s imposition of restrictive measures with regard to 
 
  outward payments and transfers shall not be subject to Article 15.24 unless 
  Singapore consents.  
 
 
2.   The United States may not request the establishment of an arbitral panel under Chapter 
20 (Administration and Dispute Settlement) relating to Singapore’s imposition of restrictive 
measures with regard to outward payments and transfers until one year has elapsed since the 
measure was adopted.  In determining whether compensation is owed or benefits should be 
suspended, or the level of such compensation or suspension, pursuant to Article 20.6 (Non- 
Implementation), the aggrieved Party and the panel shall consider whether the restrictive 
measures were implemented at the request of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).  