 
 
 
187 
 
CHAPTER 16 : INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS  
 
ARTICLE 16.1 : GENERAL PROVISIONS 
   
1.   Each Party shall, at a minimum, give effect to this Chapter.   
   
2.   (a)   Each Party shall ratify or accede to the following agreements:  
   
  (i)   the Convention Relating to the Distribution of Programme-Carrying 
 
Signals Transmitted by Satellite (1974);  
 
 
 
  (ii)   the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants 
  (1991) (AUPOV Convention );   
@
 
 
 
(iii)   the WIPO Copyright Treaty (1996);  
 
   
  (iv)   the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (1996); and  
   
 
(v)   the Patent Cooperation Treaty (1984).  
 
 
 
  (b)   Each Party shall give effect to:  
   
  (i)   Articles 1 through 6 of the Joint Recommendation Concerning Provisions 
 
on the Protection of Well-Known Marks (1999), adopted by the Assembly 
 
  of the Paris Union for the Protection of Industrial Property and the General 
  Assembly of the World Intellectual Property Organization (AWIPO ); and  
@
 
 
(ii)   the Trademark Law Treaty.
16-1 
 
   
  (c)   Each Party shall make best efforts to ratify or accede to:  
 
 
 
(i)   the Hague Agreement Concerning the International Registration  of 
 
  Industrial Designs (1999); and   
   
  (ii)   the Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the 
 
International Registration of Marks (1989).  
 
 
3.   In respect of all categories of intellectual property covered in this Chapter, each Party 
shall accord to nationals   of the other Party treatment no less favorable than it accords to its 
16-2
 
  Singapore is not obligated to give effect to Articles 6 and 7 of the Trademark Law Treaty.  
16-1
  For purposes of Articles 16.1.3 and 16.5.1, a national of a Party shall also mean, in respect 
16-2
of the relevant right, entities located in such Party that would meet the criteria for eligibility for 
protection provided for in the agreements listed in Article 16.1.2 and the TRIPS Agreement.    
 
 
188 
 
own nationals with regard to the protection  and enjoyment of such intellectual property rights 
16-3
and any benefits derived from such rights.
16-4 
4.   Each Party may derogate from paragraph 3 in relation to its judicial and administrative 
procedures, including the designation of an address for service or the appointment of an agent 
within the jurisdiction of a Party, only where such derogations are necessary to secure 
compliance with laws and regulations that are not inconsistent with this Chapter and where such  
practices are not applied in a manner that would constitute a disguised restriction on trade.  
   
5.    Paragraphs 3 and 4 do not apply to procedures provided in multilateral agreements 
concluded under the auspices of WIPO relating to the acquisition or maintenance of intellectual 
property rights.  
   
6.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter:  
   
  (a)    this Chapter gives rise to obligations in respect of all subject matter existing at 
 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement that is protected on that date in the 
 
Party where the protection is claimed  and/or that meets or comes subsequently to 
 
  meet the criteria for protection under the terms of this Chapter;  
 
 
 
(b)   a Party shall not be required to restore protection to subject matter that on the date 
 
of entry into force of this Agreement has fallen into the public domain in the Party 
 
  where the protection is claimed.  
 
 
7.   This Chapter does not give rise to obligations in respect of acts that occurred before the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 16.2 : TRADEMARKS, INCLUDING GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that trademarks shall include service marks, collective marks, 
and certification marks,  and may include geographical indications.   Neither Party shall 
16-5 16-6
 
 
 For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4, “protection” shall include matters affecting the 
16-3
availability, acquisition, scope, maintenance, and enforcement of intellectual property rights as 
well as matters affecting the use of intellectual property rights specifically covered by this 
Chapter.  For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4, “protection” shall also include the prohibition 
on circumvention of effective technological measures pursuant to paragraph 7 of Article 16.4 and 
the provision concerning rights management information pursuant to paragraph 8 of Article 16.4.  
 “Benefits derived therefrom” refers to benefits such as levies on blank tapes.  
16-4
 Neither Party is obligated to treat certification marks as a separate category in domestic law, 
16-5
provided that such marks are protected.   
 
 
189 
 
require, as a condition of registration, that signs be visually perceptible, but each Party shall 
make best efforts to register scent marks.  Each Party shall afford an opportunity for the 
registration of a trademark to be opposed.  
   
2.   Each Party shall provide that the owner of a registered trademark shall have the exclusive 
right to prevent all third parties not having the owner's consent from using in the course of trade 
identical or similar signs, including geographical indications, for goods or services that are 
related to those in respect of which the trademark is registered, where such use would result in a 
likelihood of confusion.  
   
3.   Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the rights conferred by a trademark, such 
as fair use of descriptive terms, provided that such exceptions take account of the legitimate 
interests of the owner of the trademark and of third parties.  
   
4.   Article 6bis of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (1967) 
(“Paris Convention”) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to goods or services that are not similar to 
those identified by a well-known trademark, whether registered or not, provided that use of that 
trademark in relation to those goods or services would indicate a connection between those 
goods or services and the owner of the trademark and provided that the interests of the owner of 
the trademark are likely to be damaged by such use.  
   
5.   Neither Party shall require recordation of trademark licenses to establish the validity of 
the license or to assert any rights in a trademark.  
   
6.   Pursuant to Article 20 of the TRIPS Agreement, each Party shall ensure that its 
provisions mandating the use of a term customary in common language as the common name for 
a product including, inter alia, requirements concerning the relative size, placement, or style of 
use of the trademark in relation to the common name, do not impair the use or effectiveness of a 
trademark used in relation to such products.
16-7 
 
ARTICLE 16.3 : DOMAIN NAMES ON THE INTERNET 
   
1.   Each Party shall participate in the Governmental Advisory Committee of the Internet 
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), which serves to consider and provide 
 
 
  A geographical indication shall be capable of constituting a trademark to the extent that the 
16-6
geographical indication consists of any sign, or any combination of signs, capable of identifying 
a good or service as originating in the territory of a Party, or a region or locality in that territory, 
where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the good or service is essentially 
attributable to its geographical origin.  
This provision is not intended to affect the use of common names of pharmaceutical products 
16-7 
in prescribing medicine.  
 
 
190 
 
advice on the activities of the ICANN as they relate to government concerns, including matters 
related to intellectual property and the domain name system, as well as to promote responsible 
country code Top Level Domain (ccTLD) administration, management, and operational 
practices.  
   
2.   Each Party shall require that registrants of domain names in its ccTLD are subject to a 
dispute resolution procedure, modeled along the same lines as the principles set forth in ICANN 
Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (ICANN UDRP), to address and resolve 
disputes related to the bad-faith registration of domain names in violation of trademarks.  Each 
Party shall also ensure that its corresponding ccTLDs provide public access to a reliable and 
accurate AWHOIS   database of domain name registrant contact information.  
@
 
ARTICLE 16.4 : OBLIGATIONS COMMON TO COPYRIGHT AND RELATED RIGHTS 
   
1.   Each Party shall provide that authors, performers, and producers of phonograms and their 
successors in interest have the right to authorize or prohibit all reproductions, in any manner or 
form, permanent or temporary (including temporary storage in electronic form).  
   
2.   (a)   Without prejudice to Articles 11(1)(ii), 11bis(1)(i) and (ii), 11ter(1)(ii), 14(1)(ii), 
  and 14bis(1) of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic 
  Works (1971) (“Berne Convention”), each Party shall provide to authors, 
 
performers, producers of phonograms and their successors in interest the 
 
  exclusive right to authorize or prohibit the communication to the public of their 
  works, performances, or phonograms, by wire or wireless means, including the 
 
making available to the public of their works, performances, and phonograms in 
 
  such a way that members of the public may access them from a place and at a 
  time individually chosen by them.  Notwithstanding paragraph 10, a Party may 
 
provide limitations or exceptions to this right in the case of performers and 
 
producers of phonograms for analog or digital free over-the-air terrestrial 
 
  broadcasting and, further, a Party may provide limitations with respect to other 
  non-interactive transmissions, in certain special cases provided that such 
 
limitations do not conflict with a normal exploitation of performances or 
 
  phonograms and do not unreasonably prejudice the interests of such right holders.  
   
  (b)    Neither Party shall permit the retransmission of television signals (whether 
 
terrestrial, cable, or satellite) on the Internet without the authorization of the right 
 
  holder in the subject matter of the signal.  
   
3.   Each Party shall provide to authors, performers, producers of phonograms, and their 
successors in interest the exclusive right of authorizing the making available to the public of the 
original and copies of their works and phonograms through sale or other transfer of ownership.     
   
   
 
191 
 
   
4.   Each Party shall provide that where the term of protection of a work (including a 
photographic work), performance, or phonogram is to be calculated:  
 
(a)   on the basis of the life of a natural person, the term shall be not less than the life 
of the author and 70 years after the author=s death; and  
 
(b)   on a basis other than the life of a natural person, the term shall be not less than 70 
years from the end of the calendar year of the first authorized publication of the 
work, performance, or phonogram or, failing such authorized publication within 
50 years from the creation of the work, performance, or phonogram, not less than 
70 years from the end of the calendar year of the creation of the work, 
performance, or phonogram.  
   
5.   Each Party shall apply the provisions of Article 18 of the Berne Convention, mutatis 
mutandis, to the subject matter, rights and obligations in Articles 16.4 and 16.5.  
   
6.   Each Party shall provide that for copyright and related rights, any person acquiring or 
holding any economic right:  
 
(a)   may freely and separately transfer such right by contract; and  
 
(b)   by virtue of a contract, including contracts of employment underlying the creation 
of works and phonograms, shall be able to exercise those rights in its own name 
and enjoy fully the benefits derived from those rights.  
   
7.   (a)   In order to provide adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies against 
the circumvention of effective technological measures that authors, performers, 
producers of phonograms, and their successors in interest use in connection with 
the exercise of their rights and that restrict unauthorized acts in respect of their 
works, performances, and phonograms, each Party shall provide that any person 
who:  
 
(i)   knowingly, or having reasonable grounds to know, circumvents without 
authority any effective technological measure that controls access to a 
protected work, performance, phonogram, or other subject matter; or  
 
(ii)   manufactures, imports, distributes, offers to the public, provides, or 
otherwise traffics in devices, products, or components or offers to the 
public or provides services, which:  
 
(A)   are promoted, advertised, or marketed for the purpose of  
circumvention of any effective technological measure, or  
 
(B)   have only a limited commercially significant purpose or use other 
than to circumvent any effective technological measure, or   
 
 
192 
 
(C)   are primarily designed, produced, or performed for the purpose of 
enabling or facilitating the circumvention of any effective  
technological measure;  
 
shall be liable and subject to the remedies provided for in Article 16.9.5.  Each 
Party shall provide that any person, other than a nonprofit library, archive, 
educational institution, or public noncommercial broadcasting entity, that is found 
to have engaged willfully and for purposes of commercial advantage or private 
financial gain in such activities shall be guilty of a criminal offense.  
 
(b)   For purposes of this paragraph, effective technological measure means any 
technology, device, or component that, in the normal course of its operation, 
controls access to a protected work, performance, phonogram, or other subject 
matter, or protects any copyright or any rights related to copyright.  
 
(c)   Paragraph 7(a) obligates each Party to prohibit circumvention of effective 
technological measures and does not obligate a Party to require that the design of, 
or the design and selection of parts and components for, a consumer electronics, 
telecommunications, or computing product provide for a response to any 
particular technological measure.  The absence of a requirement to respond 
affirmatively shall not constitute a defense to a claim of violation of that Party’s 
measures implementing paragraph 7(a).    
 
(d)   Each Party shall provide that a violation of the law implementing this paragraph is 
independent of any infringement that might occur under the Party=s law on 
copyright and related rights.  
 
(e)   Each Party shall confine exceptions to the prohibition referred to in paragraph 
7(a)(ii) on technology, products, services, or devices that circumvent effective 
technological measures that control access to, and, in the case of clause (i) below, 
that protect any of the exclusive rights of copyright or related rights in a protected 
work, to the following activities, provided that they do not impair the adequacy of 
legal protection or the effectiveness of legal remedies that the Party provides 
against the circumvention of effective technological measures:  
   
(i)   noninfringing reverse engineering activities with regard to a lawfully   
obtained copy of a computer program, carried out in good faith with 
respect to particular elements of that computer program that have not been 
readily available to the person engaged in such activity, for the sole 
purpose of achieving interoperability of an independently created 
computer program with other programs;  
 
(ii)   noninfringing good faith activities, carried out by an appropriately 
qualified researcher who has lawfully obtained a copy, performance, or  
 
 
193 
 
display of a work, and who has made a good faith effort to obtain 
authorization for such activities, to the extent necessary for the sole 
purpose of identifying and analyzing flaws and vulnerabilities of 
technologies for scrambling and descrambling of information;          
 
(iii)   the inclusion of a component or part for the sole purpose of preventing the 
access of minors to inappropriate online content in a technology, product, 
service, or device provided that such technology, product, service or 
device itself is not prohibited under the measures implementing paragraph 
7(a)(ii); and  
 
(iv)   noninfringing good faith activities that are authorized by the owner of a 
computer, computer system, or computer network for the sole purpose of 
testing, investigating, or correcting the security of that computer, computer 
system, or computer network.  
 
(f)   Each Party shall confine exceptions to the prohibited conduct referred to in 
paragraph 7(a)(i) to the activities listed in paragraph 7(e) and the following 
activities, provided that such exceptions do not impair the adequacy of legal 
protection or the effectiveness of legal remedies the Party provides against the 
circumvention of effective technological measures:   
   
(i)   access by a nonprofit library, archive, or educational institution to a work 
not otherwise available to it, for the sole purpose of making acquisition 
decisions;  
 
(ii)   noninfringing activities for the sole purpose of identifying and disabling a 
capability to carry out undisclosed collection or dissemination of 
personally identifying information reflecting the online activities of a 
natural person in a way that has no other effect on the ability of any person 
to gain access to any work; and  
 
(iii)   noninfringing uses of a particular class of works when an actual or likely 
adverse impact on such noninfringing uses with respect to such particular 
class of works is credibly demonstrated in a legislative or administrative 
proceeding, provided that any exception adopted in reliance on this clause 
shall have effect for a period of not more than four years from the date of 
conclusion of such proceeding.  
 
(g)   Each Party may also provide exceptions to the prohibited conduct referred to in 
paragraph 7(a) for lawfully authorized activities carried out by government 
employees, agents, or contractors for the purpose of law enforcement, 
intelligence, national defense, essential security, or similar government activities.     
   
   
 
194 
 
   
8.   In order to provide adequate and effective legal remedies to protect rights management 
information:  
 
(a)   each Party shall provide that any person who without authority, and knowingly, 
or, with respect to civil remedies, having reasonable grounds to know, that it will 
induce, enable, facilitate, or conceal an infringement of any copyright or related 
right,  
   
(i)   knowingly removes or alters any rights management information;  
 
(ii)   distributes or imports for distribution rights management information 
knowing that the rights management information has been altered without 
authority; or  
 
(iii)   distributes, imports for distribution, broadcasts, communicates, or makes 
available to the public copies of works or phonograms, knowing that rights 
management information has been removed or altered without authority,  
 
shall be liable and subject to the remedies in Article 16.9.5.  Each Party shall 
provide that any person, other than a nonprofit library, archive, educational 
institution, or public noncommercial broadcasting entity, who is found to have 
engaged willfully and for purposes of commercial advantage or private financial 
gain in such activities shall be guilty of a criminal offense. 
 
(b)   For purposes of this paragraph, rights management information means 
information which identifies a work, performance, or phonogram; the author of 
the work, the performer of the performance, or the producer of the phonogram; or 
the owner of any right in the work, performance, or phonogram; information 
about the terms and conditions of the use of the work, performance, or 
phonogram; and any numbers or codes that represent such information, when any 
of these items is attached to a copy of the work, performance, or phonogram or 
appears in conjunction with the communication or making available of a work, 
performance, or phonogram to the public.  Nothing in this paragraph obligates a 
Party to require the owner of any right in the work, performance, or phonogram to 
attach rights management information to copies of it or to cause rights 
management information to appear in connection with a communication of the 
work, performance, or phonogram to the public.  
 
9.          Each Party shall issue appropriate laws, orders, regulations, administrative, or executive 
decrees mandating that all government agencies use computer software only as authorized by the 
right holder.  Such measures shall actively regulate the acquisition and management of software 
for such government use, which may take the form of procedures, such as preparing and 
maintaining inventories of software present on agency computers, and inventories of existing 
software licenses.   
 
 
195 
 
10.   Each Party shall confine limitations or exceptions to exclusive rights in Articles 16.4 and 
16.5 to certain special cases which do not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work, 
performance, or phonogram, and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the 
right holder.  
 
ARTICLE 16.5 : OBLIGATIONS PERTAINING TO RELATED RIGHTS 
   
1.   Each Party shall accord the rights provided for in this Chapter to performers and 
producers of phonograms who are nationals of the other Party and to performances or 
phonograms first published or fixed in the territory of the other Party.  A performance or 
phonogram shall be considered first published in any Party in which it is published within 30 
days of its original publication. 
16-8 
   
2.   Each Party shall provide to performers the exclusive right to authorize or prohibit:  
   
  (a)   the communication to the public of their unfixed performances, except where the 
 
performance is already a broadcast performance, and  
 
 
 
  (b)    the fixation of their unfixed performances.    
   
3.   With respect to all rights of performers and producers of phonograms, the enjoyment and 
exercise of the rights provided for in this Chapter shall not be subject to any formality.   
   
4.   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply with respect to 
performers and producers of phonograms:    
 
(a)   performers means actors, singers, musicians, dancers, and other persons who act, 
sing, deliver, declaim, play in, interpret, or otherwise perform literary or artistic 
works or expressions of folklore;   
 
(b)   phonogram means the fixation of the sounds of a performance or of other sounds, 
or of a representation of sounds, other than in the form of a fixation incorporated 
in a cinematographic or other audiovisual work;
16-9 
(c)   fixation means the embodiment of sounds, or of the representations thereof, from 
which they can be perceived, reproduced, or communicated through a device;   
 
 
  For the application of paragraph 1 of Article 16.5, fixed means the finalization of the master 
16-8
tape or its equivalent.  
  The definition of phonogram provided herein does not suggest that rights in the phonogram 
16-9
are in any way affected through their incorporation into a cinematographic or other audiovisual 
work.   
 
 
196 
 
(d)   producer of a phonogram means the person, or the legal entity, who or which 
takes the initiative and has the responsibility for the first fixation of the sounds of 
a performance or other sounds, or the representations of sounds;   
 
(e)   publication of a fixed performance or a phonogram means the offering of copies 
of the fixed performance or the phonogram to the public, with the consent of the 
right holder, and provided that copies are offered to the public in reasonable 
quantity; and  
 
(f)   broadcasting means the transmission by wireless means for public reception of 
sounds or of images and sounds or of the representations thereof; such 
transmission by satellite is also broadcasting; transmission of encrypted signals is 
broadcasting where the means for decrypting are provided to the public by the 
broadcasting organization or with its consent.  
 
ARTICLE 16.6 : PROTECTION OF ENCRYPTED PROGRAM-CARRYING SATELLITE SIGNALS 
   
1.   Each Party shall make it:  
   
  (a)   a criminal offense to manufacture, assemble, modify, import, export, sell, lease, or 
 
otherwise distribute a tangible or intangible device or system, knowing or having 
 
reason to know that the device or system is primarily of assistance in decoding an 
 
  encrypted program-carrying satellite signal without the authorization of the lawful 
 
distributor of such signal;   
 
 
 
(b)   a criminal offense willfully to receive or further distribute an encrypted program- 
 
  carrying satellite signal that has been decoded without the authorization of the 
 
lawful distributor of the signal; and  
 
 
 
(c)   a civil offense to engage in any activity prohibited under subparagraph (a) or (b).  
 
   
2.   Each Party shall provide that any civil offense established under subparagraph (c) shall 
be actionable by any person that holds an interest in the encrypted program-carrying satellite 
signal or the content thereof.  
 
ARTICLE 16.7 : PATENTS 
   
1.   Each Party shall make patents available for any invention, whether a product or a process, 
in all fields of technology, provided that the invention is new, involves an inventive step, and is 
capable of industrial application.  For purposes of this Article, a Party may treat the terms 
"inventive step" and "capable of industrial application" as being synonymous with the terms 
"non-obvious" and "useful", respectively.  Each Party may exclude inventions from patentability 
only as defined in Articles 27.2 and 27.3(a) of the TRIPS Agreement.     
   
   
 
197 
 
   
2.   Each Party shall provide that patent owners shall also have the right to assign, or transfer 
by succession, a patent and to conclude licensing contracts.  Each Party shall provide a cause of 
action to prevent or redress the procurement of a patented pharmaceutical product, without the 
authorization of the patent owner, by a party who knows or has reason to know that such product 
is or has been distributed in breach of a contract between the right holder and a licensee, 
regardless of whether such breach occurs in or outside its territory.   Each Party shall provide 
16-10
that in such a cause of action, notice shall constitute constructive knowledge. 
   
3.   Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the exclusive rights conferred by a patent, 
provided that such exceptions do not unreasonably conflict with a normal exploitation of the 
patent and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the patent owner, taking 
account of the legitimate interests of third parties.  
   
4.   Each Party shall provide that a patent may only be revoked on grounds that would have 
justified a refusal to grant the patent, or that pertain to the insufficiency of or unauthorized 
amendments to the patent specification, non-disclosure or misrepresentation of prescribed, 
material particulars, fraud, and misrepresentation.  Where such proceedings include opposition 
proceedings, a Party may not make such proceedings available prior to the grant of the patent.  
   
5.   If a Party permits the use by a third party of the subject matter of a subsisting patent to 
support an application for marketing approval of a pharmaceutical product, that Party shall 
provide that any product produced under such authority shall not be made, used, or sold in the 
territory of that Party other than for purposes related to meeting requirements for marketing 
approval, and if the Party permits exportation, the product shall only be exported outside the 
territory of that Party  for purposes of meeting marketing approval requirements of that Party.  
 
6.   Neither Party shall permit the use16-11 of the subject matter of a patent without the 
authorization of the right holder except in the following circumstances:  
 
(a)   to remedy a practice determined after judicial or administrative process to be anti- 
competitive under the competition laws of the Party;
16-12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   A Party may limit such cause of action to cases where the product has been sold or 
16-10
distributed only outside the Party's territory before its procurement inside the Party's territory.  
 
Use” in this provision refers to use other than that allowed in paragraph 3.  
16-11A
  The Parties recognize that an intellectual property right does not necessarily confer market 
16-12 
power upon its owner.   
 
 
198 
 
(b)   in the case of public non-commercial use or in the case of a national emergency or 
other circumstances of extreme urgency, provided that:  
   
(i)   such use is limited to use by the government or third parties authorized by  
the government;   
 
(ii)   the patent owner is provided with reasonable and entire compensation for 
such use and manufacture; and  
 
(iii)   the Party shall not require the patent owner to transfer undisclosed 
information or technical "know how" related to a patented invention that 
has been authorized for use without the consent of the patent owner 
pursuant to this paragraph.  
 
Where a Party’s law allows for such use pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b), the Party shall 
respect the provisions of Article 31 of the TRIPS Agreement.  
   
7.   Each Party, at the request of the patent owner, shall extend the term of a patent to 
compensate for unreasonable delays that occur in granting the patent.  For the purposes of this 
paragraph, an unreasonable delay shall at least include a delay in the issuance of the patent of 
more than four years from the date of filing of the application with the Party, or two years after a 
request for examination of the application has been made, whichever is later, provided that 
periods attributable to actions of the patent applicant need not be included in the determination of 
such delays.
16-13 
   
8.   Where a Party provides for the grant of a patent on the basis of an examination of the 
invention conducted in another country, that Party, at the request of the patent owner, may 
extend the term of a patent for up to five years to compensate for the unreasonable delay that 
may occur in the issuance of the patent granted by such other country where that country has 
extended the term of the patent based on such delay. 
 
ARTICLE 16.8 : CERTAIN REGULATED PRODUCTS 
   
1.   If a Party requires the submission of information concerning the safety and efficacy of a 
pharmaceutical or agricultural chemical product prior to permitting the marketing of such 
product, the Party shall not permit third parties not having the consent of the party providing the 
information to market the same or a similar product on the basis of the approval granted to the 
party submitting such information for a period of at least five years from the date of approval for 
 
 
 
  Periods attributable to actions of the patent applicant shall include such periods of time 
16-13
taken to file prescribed documents relating to the examination as provided in the laws of the 
Party.   
 
 
199 
 
a pharmaceutical product and ten years from the date of approval for an agricultural chemical 
product.
16-14 
2.   If a Party provides a means of granting approval to market a product specified in 
paragraph 1 on the basis of the grant of an approval for marketing of the same or similar product 
in another country, the Party shall defer the date of any such approval to third parties not having 
the consent of the party providing the information in the other country for at least five years from 
the date of approval for a pharmaceutical product and ten years from the date of approval for an 
agricultural chemical product in the territory of the Party or in the other country, whichever is 
later.  
   
3.   Where a product is subject to a system of marketing approval pursuant to paragraph 1 or 
2 and is also subject to a patent in the territory of that Party, the Party shall not alter the term of 
protection that it provides pursuant to paragraph 1 or 2 in the event that the patent protection 
terminates on a date earlier than the end of the term of such protection.  
   
4.   With respect to any pharmaceutical product that is subject to a patent:  
 
(a)   each Party shall make available an extension of the patent term to compensate the 
patent owner for unreasonable curtailment of the patent term as a result of the 
marketing approval process;  
 
(b)   the Party shall provide that the patent owner shall be notified of the identity of 
any third party requesting marketing approval effective during the term of the 
patent; and  
 
(c)   the Party shall not grant marketing approval to any third party prior to the 
expiration of the patent term, unless by consent or with the acquiescence of the 
patent owner. 
 
ARTICLE 16.9 : ENFORCEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
General Obligations  
   
1.   Each Party shall ensure that in judicial and administrative proceedings for the 
enforcement of intellectual property rights, decisions on the merits of a case, that under the law 
or practice of the Party are of general application, shall preferably be in writing and shall state 
the reasons on which the decisions are based.  
 
  Where a Party, on the date of its implementation of the TRIPS Agreement, had in place a 
16-14
system for protecting pharmaceutical or agricultural chemical products not involving new 
chemical entities from unfair commercial use that conferred a different form or period of 
protection shorter than that specified in paragraph 1 of Article 16.8, that Party may retain such 
system notwithstanding the obligations of that paragraph.     
   
   
 
200 
 
   
2.   Each Party shall ensure that its laws and regulations, procedures, final judicial decisions, 
and administrative rulings of general application pertaining to the enforcement of intellectual 
property rights shall be published, or where such publication is not practicable, made publicly 
available, in a national language, in such a manner as to enable the other Party and right holders 
to become acquainted with them.  Nothing in this paragraph shall require a Party to disclose 
confidential information the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement or otherwise be 
contrary to the public interest or would prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of 
particular enterprises, public or private.    
   
3.   Each Party shall inform the public of its efforts to provide effective enforcement of 
intellectual property rights in its civil, administrative, and criminal system, including any 
statistical information that the Party may collect for such purposes.    
   
4.   The Parties understand that a decision that a Party makes on the distribution of 
enforcement resources shall not excuse that Party from complying with this Chapter.   
   
5.   Each Party shall provide for civil remedies against the actions described in paragraphs 7 
and 8 of Article 16.4. These shall include at least:    
 
(a)   provisional measures, including seizure of devices and products suspected of 
being involved in the prohibited activity;   
 
(b)   the opportunity for the right holder to elect between actual damages it suffered 
(plus any profits attributable to the prohibited activity not taken into account in 
computing the actual damages) or pre-established damages;   
 
(c)   payment to a prevailing right holder of court costs and fees and reasonable 
attorney’s fees by the party engaged in the prohibited conduct at the conclusion of 
the civil judicial proceeding; and  
 
(d)   destruction of devices and products found to be involved in the prohibited 
conduct.  
   
6.   In civil, administrative, and criminal proceedings involving copyright or related rights, 
each Party shall provide for a presumption that, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the 
natural person or legal entity whose name is indicated as the author, producer, performer, or 
publisher of the work, performance, or phonogram in the usual manner, is the designated right 
holder in such work, performance, or phonogram.  Each Party shall also provide for a 
presumption that, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the copyright or related right subsists in 
such subject matter.   
 
 
201 
 
Civil and Administrative Procedures and Remedies for the Enforcement of Intellectual Property 
Rights  
 
7.   Each Party shall make available to right holders16-15 civil judicial procedures concerning 
the enforcement of any intellectual property right.  
   
8.   Each Party shall provide that in civil judicial proceedings, its judicial authorities shall 
have the authority, at least with respect to works, phonograms, and performances protected by 
copyright or related rights, and in cases of trademark infringement, to order the infringer to pay 
the right holder damages adequate to compensate for the injury the right holder has suffered 
because of an infringement of that person=s intellectual property right by an infringer engaged in 
infringing activity, as well as the profits of the infringer that are attributable to the infringement 
and are not taken into account in computing the actual damages.  In addition, in determining 
injury to the right holder, the judicial authorities shall, inter alia, consider the value of the 
infringed-upon good or service, according to the suggested retail price of the legitimate good or 
service.  
   
9.   In civil judicial proceedings, each Party shall, at least with respect to works, phonograms 
and performances protected by copyright or related rights, and in cases of trademark 
counterfeiting, establish or maintain pre-established damages that shall be available on the 
election of the right holder.  Each Party shall provide that pre-established damages shall be in an 
amount sufficiently high to constitute a deterrent to future infringements and with the intent to 
compensate the right holder for the harm caused by the infringement.  
 
10.   Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities, except in exceptional circumstances, 
shall have the authority to order, at the conclusion of the civil judicial proceedings concerning 
copyright or related rights and trademark counterfeiting, that a prevailing right holder shall be 
paid court costs or fees and reasonable attorney=s fees by the infringing party.   
 
11.   In civil judicial proceedings concerning copyright or related rights infringement and 
trademark counterfeiting, each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities shall have the 
authority to order the seizure of suspected infringing goods and any related materials and 
implements used to accomplish the prohibited activity.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  For the purpose of Article 16.9 concerning the enforcement of intellectual property rights, 
16-15
the term Aright holder  shall include exclusive licensees as well as federations and associations 
@
having the legal standing to assert such rights; and the term “exclusive licensee” shall include the 
exclusive licensee of any one or more of the exclusive rights encompassed in a given intellectual 
property.     
   
   
 
202 
 
 
12.   Each Party shall provide that:  
 
(a)   in civil judicial proceedings, at the right holder=s request, goods that have been 
found to be pirated or counterfeit shall be destroyed, except in exceptional cases;  
 
(b)   its judicial authorities have the authority to order that materials and implements 
which have been used in the creation of the infringing goods be, without 
compensation of any sort, promptly destroyed or, in exceptional cases, without 
compensation of any sort, disposed of outside the channels of commerce in such a 
manner as to minimize the risks of further infringements; and   
 
(c)   in regard to counterfeit trademarked goods, the simple removal of the trademark 
unlawfully affixed shall not be sufficient to permit the release of goods into the 
channels of commerce.  
 
13.   Each Party shall provide that in civil judicial proceedings, its judicial authorities shall 
have the authority to order the infringer to identify third parties that are involved in the 
production and distribution of the infringing goods or services and their channels of distribution 
and to provide this information to the right holder.  Each Party shall provide that its judicial 
authorities shall have the authority to fine or imprison, in appropriate cases, persons who fail to 
abide by valid orders issued by such authorities.  
 
Provisional Measures Concerning the Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights  
 
14.   Each Party shall provide that requests for relief inaudita altera parte shall be dealt with 
expeditiously in accordance with the Party’s judicial rules.  
 
15.   Each Party shall provide that:  
 
(a)   its judicial authorities have the authority to require the plaintiff to provide any 
reasonably available evidence in order to satisfy themselves with a sufficient 
degree of certainty that the plaintiff's right is being infringed or that such 
infringement is imminent, and to order the plaintiff to provide a reasonable 
security or equivalent assurance set at a level sufficient to protect the defendant 
and to prevent abuse, and so as not to unreasonably deter recourse to such 
procedures.  
 
(b)   in the event that its judicial or other authorities appoint experts, technical or 
otherwise, that must be paid by the plaintiff, such costs should be closely related, 
inter alia, to the quantity of work to be performed and should not unreasonably 
deter recourse to such relief.   
 
 
203 
 
Special Requirements Related to Border Measures Concerning the Enforcement of Intellectual 
Property Rights  
 
16.   Each Party shall provide that any right holder initiating procedures for suspension by the 
Party’s customs authorities of the release of suspected counterfeit trademark or pirated copyright 
goods16 into free circulation shall be required to provide adequate evidence to satisfy the 
competent authorities that, under the law of the importing country, there is prima facie an 
infringement of the right holder's intellectual property right and to supply sufficient information 
that may reasonably be expected to be within the right holder=s knowledge to make the suspected 
goods reasonably recognizable to the customs authorities.  
 
17.   Each Party shall provide that its competent authorities shall have the authority to require 
an applicant to provide a reasonable security or equivalent assurance sufficient to protect the 
defendant and the competent authorities and to prevent abuse.  Each Party shall provide that the 
security or assurance shall not unreasonably deter recourse to these procedures.  
 
18.   Where its competent authorities have made a determination that goods are counterfeit or 
pirated, the Party shall grant its competent authorities the authority to inform the right holder of 
the names and addresses of the consignor, the importer, and the consignee, and of the quantity of 
the goods in question.  
 
19.   Each Party shall provide that its competent authorities may initiate border measures ex 
officio, without the need for a formal complaint from a private party or right holder.  Such 
measures shall apply to shipments of pirated and counterfeit goods imported into or exported out 
of a Party’s territory, including shipments consigned to a local party.  For transshipped goods 
that are not consigned to a local party, each Party shall, upon request, endeavor to examine such 
goods.  For products transshipped through the territory of a Party destined for the territory of the 
other Party, the former shall cooperate to provide all available information to the latter Party to 
enable effective enforcement against shipments of counterfeit or pirated goods.  Each Party shall 
 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter:  
16
 
(a)  counterfeit trademark goods shall mean any goods, including packaging, bearing 
without authorization a trademark which is identical to the trademark validly registered in 
respect of such goods, or which cannot be distinguished in its essential aspects from such a 
trademark, and which thereby infringes the rights of the owner of the trademark in question 
under the law of the country of importation; and  
 
(b)  pirated copyright goods shall mean any goods which are copies made without the 
consent of the right holder or person duly authorized by the right holder in the country of 
production and which are made directly or indirectly from an article where the making of that 
copy would have constituted an infringement of a copyright or a related right under the law of 
the country of importation.    
 
 
204 
 
ensure that it has the authority to undertake such cooperation in response to a request by the 
other Party on counterfeit or pirated goods en route to that other Party.  
 
20.   Each Party shall provide that goods that its competent authorities have determined to be 
pirated or counterfeit shall be destroyed, except in exceptional cases.  In regard to counterfeit 
trademark goods, the simple removal of the trademark unlawfully affixed shall not be sufficient 
to permit the release of the goods into the channels of commerce.  In no event shall the 
competent authorities be authorized to permit the export of counterfeit or pirated goods.  
 
Criminal Procedures and Remedies for the Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights 
 
21.   Each Party shall provide criminal procedures and penalties to be applied at least in cases 
of willful trademark counterfeiting or copyright or related rights piracy on a commercial scale.   
Willful copyright or related rights piracy on a commercial scale includes (i) significant willful 
infringements of copyright or related rights that have no direct or indirect motivation of financial 
gain, as well as (ii) willful infringements for purposes of commercial advantage or financial gain.  
 
(a)   Specifically, each Party shall provide:  
   
(i)   remedies that include imprisonment as well as monetary fines sufficiently 
high to deter future acts of infringement consistent with a policy of 
removing the monetary incentive of the infringer.  Also, each Party shall 
encourage its judicial authorities to impose such fines at levels sufficient 
to provide a deterrent to future infringements;   
 
(ii)   that its judicial authorities have the authority to order the seizure of 
suspected counterfeit or pirated goods, any related materials and 
implements that have been used in the commission of the offense, any 
assets traceable to the infringing activity, and documentary evidence 
relevant to the offense that fall within the scope of such order.  Items that 
are subject to seizure pursuant to such order need not be individually 
identified so long as they fall within general categories specified in the 
order;    
 
(iii)   that its judicial authorities shall, except in exceptional cases, order the 
forfeiture and destruction of all counterfeit or pirated goods, and, at least 
with respect to willful copyright or related rights piracy, materials and 
implements that  have been used in the creation of the infringing goods.   
Each Party shall further provide that such forfeiture and destruction shall 
occur without compensation of any kind to the defendant; and  
 
(iv)   that its authorities may initiate legal action ex officio, without the need for 
a formal complaint by a private party or right holder.   
 
 
205 
 
(b)   Each Party may provide procedures for right holders to initiate private criminal 
actions.  However, these procedures shall not be unduly burdensome or costly for 
right holders.  Each Party shall ensure that non-private criminal actions are the 
primary means by which it ensures the effective enforcement of its criminal law 
against willful copyright or related rights piracy.  In addition, each Party shall 
ensure that its competent authorities bring criminal actions, as necessary, to act as 
a deterrent to further infringements.   
 
Limitations on Liability for Service Providers  
 
22.   Each Party shall provide, consistent with the framework set forth in Article 16.9:  
(a)   legal incentives for service providers to cooperate with copyright  owners in 
16-17
deterring the unauthorized storage and transmission of copyrighted materials; and  
 
(b)   limitations in its law regarding the scope of remedies available against service 
providers for copyright infringements that they do not control, initiate, or direct, 
and that take place through systems or networks controlled or operated by them or 
on their behalf, as set forth in this subparagraph.
16-18 
(i)   These limitations shall preclude monetary relief and provide reasonable 
restrictions on court-ordered relief to compel or restrain certain actions for 
the following functions and shall be confined to those functions:
16-19 
(A)   transmitting, routing or providing connections for material without 
modification of its content, or the intermediate and transient  
storage of such material in the course thereof;  
 
(B)   caching carried out through an automatic process;  
 
(C)   storage at the direction of a user of material residing on a system or 
network controlled or operated by or for the service provider; and  
 
(D)   referring or linking users to an online location by using  
information location tools, including hyperlinks and directories.  
 
 
 For purposes of Article 16.9.22, “copyright” shall also include related rights.  
16-17
 It is understood that this subparagraph is without prejudice to the availability of defenses to 
16-18
copyright infringement that are of general applicability.  
 Either Party may request consultations with the other Party to consider how to address future 
16-19
functions of a similar nature under this paragraph.   
 
 
206 
 
(ii)   These limitations shall apply only where the service provider does not 
initiate the chain of transmission of the material, and does not select the 
material or its recipients (except to the extent that a function described in 
clause (i)(D) in itself entails some form of selection).  
 
(iii)   Qualification by a service provider for the limitations as to each function 
in clauses (i)(A) through (i)(D) shall be considered separately from 
qualification for the limitations as to each other function, in accordance 
with the conditions for qualification set forth in subparagraphs (iv) – (vii).   
 
(iv)   With respect to functions referred to in clause (i)(B), the limitations shall 
be conditioned on the service provider:   
 
(A)   permitting access to cached material in significant part only to 
users of its system or network who have met conditions on user 
access to that material;  
 
(B)   complying with rules concerning the refreshing, reloading, or other 
updating of the cached material when specified by the person  
making the material available online in accordance with a  
generally accepted industry standard data communications protocol 
for the system or network through which that person makes the 
material available;  
 
(C)   not interfering with technology consistent with industry standards 
accepted in the territory of each Party used at the originating site to 
obtain information about the use of the material, and not modifying 
its content in transmission to subsequent users; and  
 
(D)   expeditiously removing or disabling access, on receipt of an  
effective notification of claimed infringement, to cached material 
that has been removed or access to which has been disabled at the 
originating site.  
 
(v)   With respect to functions referred to in clauses (i)(C) and (i)(D), the 
limitations shall be conditioned on the service provider:   
 
(A)   not receiving a financial benefit directly attributable to the  
infringing activity, in circumstances where it has the right and 
ability to control such activity;  
 
(B)   expeditiously removing or disabling access to the material residing 
on its system or network on obtaining actual knowledge of the 
infringement or becoming aware of facts or circumstances from   
 
 
207 
 
which the infringement was apparent, such as through effective 
notifications of claimed infringement in accordance with 
subparagraph (ix)  and  
 
(C)   publicly designating a representative to receive such notifications.  
 
(vi)   Eligibility for the limitations in this subparagraph shall be conditioned on 
the service provider:  
 
(A)   adopting and reasonably implementing a policy that provides for 
termination in appropriate circumstances of the accounts of repeat 
infringers;  and    
 
(B)   accommodating and not interfering with standard technical  
measures accepted in the territory of each Party that protect and 
identify copyrighted material, that are developed through an open, 
voluntary process by a broad consensus of copyright owners and 
service providers, that are available on reasonable and  
nondiscriminatory terms, and that do not impose substantial costs 
on service providers or substantial burdens on their systems or  
networks.   
 
(vii)  Eligibility for the limitations in this subparagraph may not be conditioned 
on the service provider monitoring its service, or affirmatively seeking 
facts indicating infringing activity, except to the extent consistent with 
such technical measures.  
 
(viii)  If the service provider qualifies for the limitations with respect to the 
functions referred to in clause (i)(A), court-ordered relief to compel or 
restrain certain actions shall be limited to terminating specified accounts, 
or to taking reasonable steps to block access to a specific, non-domestic 
online location.  If the service provider qualifies for the limitations with 
respect to any other function in clause (i), court-ordered relief to compel 
or restrain certain actions shall be limited to removing or disabling access 
to the infringing material, terminating specified accounts, and other 
remedies that a court may find necessary provided that such other 
remedies are the least burdensome to the service provider among 
comparably effective forms of relief.  Each Party shall provide that any 
such relief shall be issued with due regard for the relative burden to the 
service provider and harm to the copyright owner, the technical feasibility 
and effectiveness of the remedy, and whether less burdensome, 
comparably effective enforcement methods are available.  Except for 
orders ensuring the preservation of evidence, or other orders having no 
material adverse effect on the operation of the service provider=s  
 
 
208 
 
communications network, each Party shall provide that such relief shall be 
available only where the service provider has received notice of the court 
order proceedings referred to in this subparagraph and an opportunity to 
appear before the judicial authority.  
 
(ix)   For purposes of the notice and take down process for the functions 
referred to in  clauses (i)(C) and (D), each Party shall establish appropriate 
procedures for effective notifications of claimed infringement, and 
effective counter-notifications by those whose material is removed or 
disabled through mistake or misidentification.  Each Party shall also 
provide for monetary remedies against any person who makes a knowing 
material misrepresentation in a notification or counter-notification that 
causes injury to any interested party as a result of a service provider 
relying on the misrepresentation.   
 
(x)   If the service provider removes or disables access to material in good faith 
based on claimed or apparent infringement, each Party shall provide that 
the service provider shall be exempted from liability for any resulting 
claims, provided that, in the case of material residing on its system or 
network, it takes reasonable steps promptly to notify the person making 
the material available on its system or network that it has done so and, if 
such person makes an effective counter-notification and is subject to 
jurisdiction in an infringement suit, to restore the material online unless 
the person giving the original effective notification seeks judicial relief 
within a reasonable time.    
 
(xi)   Each Party shall establish an administrative or judicial procedure enabling 
copyright owners who have given effective notification of claimed 
infringement to obtain expeditiously from a service provider information 
in its possession identifying the alleged infringer.    
 
(xii)  For purposes of the functions referred to in clause (i)(A), service provider 
means a provider of transmission, routing or connections for digital online 
communications without modification of their content between or among 
points specified by the user of material of the user=s choosing, and for 
purposes of the functions referred to in clauses (i)(B) through (i)(D) 
service provider means a provider or operator of facilities for online 
services or network access.    
   
   
 
209 
 
 
ARTICLE 16.10 : TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
   
1.   Each Party shall implement the obligations of this Chapter within the following periods:  
 
(a)   Each Party shall ratify or accede to the UPOV Convention and give effect to the 
obligations in paragraph 4 of Article 16.4 within six months of the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement or December 31, 2004, whichever date is earlier;  
 
(b)   each Party shall ratify or accede to the agreements listed in  paragraph 2(a) of 
Article 16.1(except for the UPOV Convention) and give effect to Articles 16.4 
and 16.5 (except for paragraph 4 of Article 16.4) within one year of the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement; and  
 
(c)   each Party shall implement each of the other obligations of this Chapter within six 
months of the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
2.         Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the date of entry into force in paragraph 
6(b) of Article 16.1 means the date of the expiry of the six-month period commencing on the 
date this Agreement enters into force.   