   
   
   
 
112 
ANNEX 10B  
 
INTRODUCTORY NOTE FOR THE SCHEDULE OF SINGAPORE TO ANNEX 10B  
   
1.   The Schedule of Singapore to Annex 10B sets out:  
   
  (a)   in Section A, the headnotes that limit or clarify the commitments of Singapore 
 
with respect to the obligations described in subparagraphs (i) – (v) of paragraph 
 
(b), and  
 
   
  (b)   in Section B, pursuant to Article 10.9 (Non-Conforming Measures), the existing 
 
measures of Singapore that are not subject to some or all of the obligations 
 
  imposed by:  
   
  (i)   Article 10.2 (National Treatment);  
 
 
 
(ii)   Article 10.3 (Most-Favored-Nation Treatment);  
 
   
  (iii)   Article 10.4 (Market Access for Financial Institutions);  
   
 
(iv)   Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade);  
 
 
 
  (v)   Article 10.8 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors).  
   
2.   Each entry in Section B as described in paragraph 1(b) sets out the following elements:  
   
  (a)   Type of reservation sets out the obligations referred to in paragraph 1(b) with 
 
respect to which the entry is made;  
 
   
  (b)   Level of  government indicates the level of government maintaining the listed 
  measure(s);  
 
 
 
(c)   Measure identifies the laws, regulations or other measures for which the entry is 
 
  made.  A measure cited in the measure element:  
   
  (i)   means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of the date of 
 
entry into force of this Agreement;  
 
   
  (ii)   includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the 
 
authority of and consistent with the measure;  
 
 
 
(d)   Description sets out the non-conforming aspects of the entry.  
 
   
3.   In accordance with Article 10.9.1(a), the articles of this Agreement referred to by their 
titles in the Type of reservation element of an entry do not apply to the law, regulation or other 
measures identified in the Measures element or described in the Description element of that 
entry.     
   
   
 
113 
4.   Both Parties agree that references in the Schedule of a Party to the Annex to any 
enterprise or entity apply as well to any successor enterprise or entity, which shall be entitled to 
benefit from any listing of a non-conforming measure with respect to that enterprise or entity.   
 
 
114 
INTRODUCTORY NOTE FOR THE UNITED STATES SCHEDULE TO ANNEX 10B  
 
Relating to Banking and Other Non-Insurance Financial Services  
   
1.   The Schedule of the United States to Annex 10B with respect to banking and other non- 
insurance financial services sets out:  
 
(a)   in Section A, the headnotes that limit or clarify the commitments of the United 
States with respect to the obligations described in subparagraphs (i)-(iv) of 
paragraph (b), and   
 
(b)   in Section B, pursuant to Article 10.9 (Non-Conforming Measures), the existing 
measures of the United States that are not subject to some or all of the obligations 
imposed by:  
   
(i)   Article 10.2 (National Treatment);  
   
  (ii)   Article 10.3 (Most-Favored-Nation Treatment);  
 
 
 
(iii)   Article 10.4 (Market Access for Financial Institutions); or  
 
   
  (iv)   Article 10.8 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors).  
   
2.   Each entry in Section B as described in paragraph 1(b) sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)   Description of Non-Conforming Measures sets out the non-conforming aspects 
of the entry and the subsector, financial institution, or activities covered by the 
entry;  
 
(b)   Measures identifies the laws, regulations or other measures for which the entry is 
made.  A measure cited in the Measures element:  
 
(i)   means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement, and  
 
(ii)   includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under  the 
authority of and consistent with the measure;  
 
(c)   Obligations Concerned indicates the obligations referred to in paragraph 1(b)   
with respect to which the entry is made.  
 
Relating to Insurance:  
   
3.   The Schedule of the United States to Annex 10B with respect to insurance sets out:  
 
(a)   headnotes that limit or clarify the commitments of the United States with respect 
to the obligations described in subparagraphs (i)-(v) of paragraph (b), and    
 
 
115 
(b)    pursuant to Article 10.9 (Non-Conforming Measures), a schedule of existing 
measures of the United States that do not conform to some or all of the 
obligations imposed by:  
   
(i)   Article 10.2 (National Treatment);  
   
  (ii)   Article 10.3 (Most-Favored-Nation Treatment);  
 
 
 
(iii)   Article 10.4 (Market Access for Financial Enterprises);  
 
   
  (iv)   Article 10.5 (Cross-Border Trade); or  
   
 
(v)   Article 10.8 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors).  
 
 
4.   Each entry in the schedule of non-conforming measures described in paragraph 3(b) sets 
out the following elements:  
   
(a)  Obligations Concerned specifies the obligation(s) referred to in paragraph 3(b) 
that, pursuant to Article 10.9, do not apply to the listed measure(s);  
 
(b)   Level of Government indicates the level of government maintaining the listed 
measure(s);   
 
(c)   Measures identifies the laws, regulations or other measures for which the entry is 
made.  A measure cited in the Measures element:  
   
(i)   means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement, and  
 
(ii)   includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under  the 
authority of and consistent with the measure;  
 
(d)   Description provides a general, nonbinding description of the Measures.  
 
Common Provisions  
   
5.   In accordance with Article 10.9.1 (a), the articles of this Agreement specified in the 
Obligations Concerned element of an entry do not apply to the law, regulation or other measure 
identified in the Measures element or in the  Description of Non-Conforming Measures element 
of that entry.  
   
6.   Where the United States maintains a measure that requires that a service supplier be a 
citizen, permanent resident or resident of its territory as a condition to the provision of a service 
in its territory, a  listing for that measure taken in Annex 10B with respect to Articles 10.2, 10.3, 
10.4, or 10.5 shall operate as a reservation with respect to Articles 15.4 (National Treatment and 
Most-Favored-Nation Treatment) and 15.8 (Performance Requirements), to the extent of that 
measure.     
   
   
 
116 
7.   Both Parties agree that references in the Schedule of a Party to Annex 10B to any 
enterprise or entity apply as well to any successor enterprise or entity, which shall be entitled to 
benefit from any listing of a non-conforming measure with respect to that enterprise or entity.  