   
   
   
 
146 
 
 
ANNEX 13A  
 
SCHEDULE 1  
 
COVERED ENTITIES 
 
For the United States:  
 
A.    Central Government Entities  
 
All entities included in United States Appendix I, Annex 1 of the GPA, for procurement 
covered by that Annex. 
 
Thresholds:   
 
for all goods and services (except construction services):  US$ 56,190, to be 
adjusted every two years in accordance with the formula specified in Annex 13B; 
and  
 
for construction services: US$ 6,481,000, to be adjusted in accordance with the 
United States’ Appendix I, Annex 1 of the GPA and the procedures set forth in 
that Agreement, converted into U.S. dollars.  
 
B.    Sub-Central Government Entities  
 
All entities included in United States Appendix I, Annex 2 of the GPA, for procurement 
covered by that Annex.  
 
Thresholds:   
 
for all goods and services (except construction services): US$ 460,000; and  
 
for construction services:  US$ 6,481,000.  
 
These thresholds are to be adjusted in accordance with the United States= Appendix I, 
Annex 2 of the GPA and the procedures set forth in that Agreement, converted into U.S. 
dollars.  
 
C.    All Other Entities  
 
All entities included in the United States’ Appendix I, Annex 3 of the GPA, for 
procurement covered by that Annex.     
   
   
 
147 
 
 
Thresholds:  
 
for all goods and services (except construction services):  the SDR equivalent of 
US$ 250,000 or US$ 518,000 (400,000 SDRs) in accordance with the respective 
lists in U.S. Appendix I, Annex 3; and  
 
for construction services: US$ 6,481,000.  
 
These thresholds are to be adjusted in accordance with the United States’ Appendix I, 
Annex 3 of the GPA and the procedures set forth in that Agreement, converted into U.S. 
dollars.  
 
For Singapore:  
 
A.    Central Government Entities  
 
All entities included in Singapore Appendix I, Annex 1 of the GPA, for procurement 
covered by that Annex.  
 
Thresholds:  
 
for all goods and services (except construction services):   S$ 102,710, to be 
adjusted in accordance with the formula specified in Annex 13B; and  
 
for construction services: S$ 11,376,000, to be adjusted in accordance with 
adjustment of thresholds under Singapore Appendix I, Annex 1 of the GPA and 
the procedures set forth in that Agreement, converted into Singapore dollars.  
 
B.    Sub-Central Government Entities  
 
Not applicable for Singapore.  
 
C.    All Other Entities:  
 
All entities included in Singapore Appendix I, Annex 3 of the GPA, for procurement 
covered by that Annex.  
 
Thresholds:  
 
for all goods and services (except construction services):  S$ 910,000; and   
 
for construction services: S$ 11,376,000.   
 
 
148 
 
These thresholds are to be adjusted in accordance with adjustment of thresholds under 
Singapore Appendix I, Annex 3 of the GPA and the procedures set forth in that 
Agreement, converted into Singapore dollars.     
   
   
 
149 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2  
 
COVERED GOODS AND SERVICES 
 
For the United States:  
 
A.    Goods  
 
This Chapter applies to all goods covered under the United States Appendix I of the 
GPA, as well as the products covered by Federal Supply Code 58 (Communications, 
Detection & Coherent Radiation Equipment), except for the Department of Defense, and 
subject to the exclusions set out in United States Appendix I for specific entities.   
 
B.    Services (Other than construction services)  
 
This Chapter applies to all services in the Universal List of Services, as contained in 
document MTN.GNS/W/120 of the WTO, procured by the entities specified in Schedule 
1, excluding the following services:  
 
(1)   all transportation services, including Launching Services (CPC Categories 71, 72, 
73, 74, 8859, 8868);  
 
Note:   Transportation services, where incidental to a contract for the procurement 
of supplies, are not subject to this Chapter.  
 
(2)   dredging;  
 
(3)   all services purchased in support of military forces overseas;  
 
(4)   management and operation contracts of certain government or privately owned 
facilities used for government purposes, including federally funded research and 
development centers (FFRDCs);  
 
(5)   public utilities services;  
 
(6)   basic telecommunications network and services listed in paragraph 2C(a) to (g) of 
document MTN.GNS/W/120 of the WTO, such as public voice and data services. 
This exclusion does not include information services, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153 
(20).  
 
(7)   research and Development; and  
 
(8)   printing Services (for GPA Annex 2 entities only).     
   
   
 
150 
 
 
C.    Construction Services  
 
This Chapter applies to government procurement of all services covered under Appendix 
I, Annex 5 of the GPA.  
 
For Singapore:  
 
A.    Goods  
 
This Chapter applies to all goods covered under Singapore=s Appendix I, Annex I of the 
GPA.   
 
B.    Services (Other than construction services)  
 
This Chapter applies to all services in the Universal List of Services, as contained in 
document MTN.GNS/W/120 of the WTO, excluding the following services:  
 
(1)   research and development services;   
 
(2)   police, public order, public safety and security services and compulsory social 
security services;    
 
(3)   radio and television services, including transmission services;   
 
(4)   exam Services;  
 
(5)   asset management and other financial services procured by MOF (Ministry of 
Finance) and MAS (Monetary Authority of Singapore) for the purpose of 
managing official foreign reserves and other foreign assets of the Government of 
Singapore;  
 
(6)    urban planning and landscape architectural services;   
 
(7)   real estate services (excluding consultancy services, agency services, auction and 
valuation services);   
 
(8)   supply of potable water for human consumption;   
 
(9)   social services;   
 
(10)   printing of Government legislation and gazette; and   
 
(11)   sale and distribution services for government debt.     
   
   
 
151 
 
 
C.    Construction Services  
 
This Chapter applies to government procurement of all services covered under 
Singapore=s Appendix I, Annex 5 of the GPA.  