   
   
   
 
221 
CHAPTER 19 : TRANSPARENCY  
 
ARTICLE 19.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
 
Administrative ruling of general application means an administrative ruling or interpretation 
that applies to all persons and fact situations that fall generally within its ambit and that 
establishes a norm of conduct but does not include:  
 
(a)   a determination or ruling made in an administrative or quasi-judicial proceeding 
that applies to a particular person, good, or service of the other Party in a specific 
case; or  
 
(b)   a ruling that adjudicates with respect to a particular act or practice.  
 
ARTICLE 19.2 : CONTACT POINTS 
   
1.   Each Party shall designate a contact point or points to facilitate communications between 
the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement.  
   
2.   On the request of the other Party, the contact points shall identify the office or official 
responsible for the matter and assist, as necessary, in facilitating communications with the 
requesting Party.  
 
ARTICLE 19.3 : PUBLICATION 
   
1.   Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations, procedures, and administrative rulings 
of general application respecting any matter covered by this Agreement are promptly published 
or otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable interested persons and the other Party 
to become acquainted with them.  
   
2.   To the extent possible, each Party shall:  
 
(a)   publish in advance any such laws, regulations, procedures, and administrative 
rulings that it proposes to adopt; and  
 
(b)   provide interested persons and the other Party a reasonable opportunity to 
comment on such proposed measures.  
 
ARTICLE 19.4 : NOTIFICATION AND PROVISION OF INFORMATION 
   
1.   To the maximum extent possible, each Party shall notify the other Party of any actual or 
proposed measure that the Party considers might materially affect the operation of this 
Agreement or otherwise substantially affect the other Party’s interests under this Agreement.       
     
     
   
222 
2.   On request of the other Party, a Party  shall promptly provide information and 
respond to questions pertaining to any actual or proposed measure, whether or not the other Party 
has been previously notified of that measure. 
   
3   Any notification, request, or information under this Article shall be provided to the other 
Party through the relevant contact points.    
   
4.   Any notification or information provided under this Article shall be without prejudice as 
to whether the measure is consistent with this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 19.5 : ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
   
1.   With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial, and reasonable manner all 
measures referred to in Article 19.3, each Party shall ensure that in its administrative proceedings 
applying such measures to particular persons, goods, or services of the other Party in specific 
cases that:  
 
(a)   wherever possible, persons of the other Party that are directly affected by a 
proceeding are provided reasonable notice, in accordance with domestic 
procedures, when a proceeding is initiated, including a description of the nature of 
the proceeding, a statement of the legal authority under which the proceeding is 
initiated, and a general description of any issues in controversy;  
 
(b)   such persons are afforded a reasonable opportunity to present facts and arguments 
in support of their positions prior to any final administrative action, when time, 
the nature of the proceeding, and the public interest permit; and  
 
(c)   its procedures are in accordance with domestic law.  
 
ARTICLE 19.6 : REVIEW AND APPEAL 
   
1.   Each Party shall establish or maintain judicial, quasi-judicial, or administrative tribunals 
or procedures for the purpose of the prompt review and, where warranted, correction of final 
administrative actions  regarding matters covered by this Agreement. Such tribunals shall be 
19-1
impartial and independent of the office or authority entrusted with administrative enforcement 
and shall not have any substantial interest in the outcome of the matter.  
   
2.   Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or procedures, the parties to the 
proceeding are provided with the right to:  
 
(a)   a reasonable opportunity to support or defend their respective positions; and  
 
 
 
  For greater certainty, the correction of final administrative actions includes a referral back to 
19-1
the body that took such action for corrective action.     
   
   
 
223 
(b)   a decision based on the  evidence and submissions of record or, where 
  required by domestic law, the record compiled by the administrative authority.  
   
3.   Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further review as provided in its domestic 
law, that such decision shall be implemented by, and shall govern the practice of, the offices or 
authorities with respect to the administrative action at issue.  