  1
 
 
ANNEX 10B 
SCHEDULE OF SINGAPORE 
 
 
SECTION A - HEADNOTES 
 
 
1.  Commitments under the Chapter on Financial Services are undertaken subject to the 
limitations and conditions set forth in these headnotes and the schedule below.   
 
2.  To clarify Singapore's commitment with respect to Article 10.4(b) of the Agreement 
(Market Access for Financial Institutions), juridical persons supplying financial services are 
subject to non-discriminatory limitations on juridical form.1 
 
3.  (a)  Solely in the context of future liberalization of its banking sub-sector and not 
for purposes of affording protection to local financial institutions within the banking sub-
sector,  Singapore  may  impose  new  non-conforming measures on a most-favored-nation 
treatment basis.  Such measures may include, but are not limited to: 
 
(i)  requirements regarding the composition of boards of directors of banks 
and finance companies; and 
 
(ii)  limitations on the number of customer service locations of finance 
companies, 
 
provided  that  any  such  non-conforming  measure  shall  not  derogate  from  commitments 
undertaken by Singapore in its Schedule to Annexes 10B and 10C to liberalize quantitative 
restrictions on the number of licenses or customer service locations for United States banks or 
establish time periods for allowing United States banks access to any ATM network in 
Singapore. 
 
   (b)   Where a United States financial institution chooses not to participate in a 
future liberalization described in subparagraph (a), Singapore shall not apply any related new 
non-conforming measure or take any adverse action with respect to the institution. 
 
(c)  If  Singapore  imposes  any  new  non-conforming  measure  described  in 
paragraph (a), it will: 
 
(i)  notify the United States of its intent at least three months in advance of 
implementation of the measure; 
 
(ii)  consult with the United States concerning the measure and give due 
consideration  to  the  views  expressed  by  the  United  States  in  this 
respect; and 
                                     
1 For example, partnerships and sole proprietorships are generally not acceptable juridical forms for depository 
financial institutions in Singapore.  This headnote is not itself intended to affect, or otherwise limit, a choice by 
a financial institution of the other Party between branches or subsidiaries.   
 
10B-Singapore-1   2
 
(iii)  make compensatory adjustments to its Schedule to Annex 10B  with 
respect to the same class of financial institutions of the banking sub-
sector as are affected by the measure such that the general level of 
commitments is more favorable to trade in the banking sub-sector than 
prior to the new measure.2 
 
(d)   In  connection  with  the  liberalization  of  the  20%  aggregate  foreign 
shareholding limit in finance companies effected on 11 December 2002, Singapore reserves 
the right to introduce a 12% approval threshold for acquisition of shareholdings or voting 
control in finance companies.  Subparagraph (c) shall not apply to this measure. 
 
4.   (a)  Singapore reserves the right to require a foreign bank that is systemically 
important to incorporate within Singapore, provided that such a requirement is applied in a 
reasonable, objective, and impartial manner.  Before imposing such a requirement, Singapore 
will take into account such factors as the quality of home country regulation and supervision 
over the bank, degree of protection accorded to depositors in the home country vis-à-vis 
depositors in Singapore, and the amount of assets held or situated in Singapore. 
 
  (b)  Singapore shall not impose the requirement described in subparagraph (a) with 
respect to a foreign bank of the United States, unless it: 
   
  (i)  notifies the bank and the United States of its intent at least six months 
before imposing the requirement; 
 
  (ii)  consults with the United States concerning the requirement and gives 
due consideration to the views expressed by the United States in this 
respect; and 
 
  (iii)  allows the bank a reasonable time to comply with the requirement. 
 
 
                                     
2 It is understood that compensatory adjustments shall not be regarded as inadequate solely because the general 
level of commitments after the introduction of the new measure is not significantly more favorable to trade in 
the banking sub-sector than prior to the introduction of the measure. 
10B-Singapore-2   3
SCHEDULE OF SINGAPORE TO ANNEX 10B 
SECTION B 
 
 
BANKING 
 
Type of  Market Access for Financial Institutions and National Treatment 
Reservation:   
Level of  National  
Government:    
Measures:  Banking Act, Cap. 19 
MAS Notice 619 
 
Description:  No new full bank licenses will be granted to foreign banks.   
 
Qualifying Full Bank privileges are limited to 6 foreign banks.  Quantitative 
limits on the number of licenses with Qualifying Full Bank privileges will be 
lifted for U.S. banks 18 months after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
No foreign bank can have more than one customer service location, establish 
off-premise ATMs, establish ATM networking or provide debit services 
through an Electronic Funds Transfer at Point of Sale (EFTPOS) network 
except that U.S. banks with Qualifying Full Bank privileges (QFBs) are 
allowed to: 
(a) establish up to 30 customer service locations upon entry into force of 
this Agreement;  
(b) establish any number of customer service locations 2 years after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement;  
(c) establish an ATM network among QFBs; and 
(d) provide debit services through an Electronic Funds Transfer at Point 
of Sale (EFTPOS) network. 
 
No  foreign  financial  institution  can  participate  in  any  ATM  network 
operated by local banks except that: (a) U.S. banks with Qualifying Full 
Bank privileges and which are incorporated in Singapore will not be subject 
to this restriction 2 years and 6 months after the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement and will thereafter be permitted to negotiate for access to 
local banks’ ATM networks on commercial terms; and (b) U.S. banks with 
Qualifying Full Bank privileges and which are not incorporated in Singapore 
will not be subject to this restriction 4 years after the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement and will thereafter be permitted to negotiate for access to 
local banks’ ATM networks on commercial terms.   
 
 
10B-Singapore-3   4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-4   5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-5   6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-6   7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-7   8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-8   9
 
 
 
Description:  No new finance company licenses will be granted. 
 
A  finance  company  must  be  established  as  a  Singapore  incorporated 
company. 
 
Finance companies are not permitted to establish off-premise ATMs, ATM 
networking, participate in any local ATM network or allow their accounts to 
be debited through an Electronic Funds Transfer at Point of Sale (EFTPOS) 
network. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-9   10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-10   11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-11   12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-12   13
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-13   14
SECURITIES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-14   15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-15   16
 
 
10B-Singapore-16   17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-17   18
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-18   19
INSURANCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-19   20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-20   21
 
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-21   22
 
Type of  Cross-Border Trade 
Reservation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-22   23
 
 
10B-Singapore-23   24
ALL SECTORS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10B-Singapore-24   25
 
Type of  Cross-Border Trade 
Reservation:   
  
10B-Singapore-25 