   
   
   
 
216 
CHAPTER 18 : ENVIRONMENT  
 
ARTICLE 18.1 : LEVELS OF PROTECTION 
 
Recognizing the right of each Party to establish its own levels of domestic environmental 
protection and environmental development policies and priorities, and to adopt or modify 
accordingly its environmental laws, each Party shall ensure that its laws provide for high levels 
of environme ntal protection and shall strive to continue to improve those laws. 
 
ARTICLE 18.2 : APPLICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS 
   
1.   (a)   A Party shall not fail to effectively enforce its environmental laws, through a 
  sustained or recurring course of action or inaction, in a manner affecting trade 
  between the Parties, after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
(b)   The Parties recognize that each Party retains the right to exercise discretion with 
 
  respect to investigatory, prosecutorial, regulatory, and compliance matters and to 
 
make decisions regarding the allocation of resources to enforcement with respect 
 
to other environmental matters determined to have higher priorities.  Accordingly, 
 
  the Parties understand that a Party is in compliance with subparagraph (a) where a 
  course of action or inaction reflects a reasonable exercise of such discretion, or 
 
results from a bona fide decision regarding the allocation of resources.  
 
 
2.   The Parties recognize that it is inappropriate to encourage trade or investment by 
weakening or reducing the protections afforded in domestic environmental laws.  Accordingly, 
each Party shall strive to ensure that it does not waive or otherwise derogate from, or offer to 
waive or otherwise derogate from, such laws in a manner that weakens or reduces the protections 
afforded in those laws as an encouragement for trade with the other Party, or as an 
encouragement for the establishment, acquisition, expansion, or retention of an investment in its 
territory. 
 
ARTICLE 18.3 : PROCEDURAL MATTERS 
   
1.   Each Party shall ensure that judicial, quasi-judicial, or administrative proceedings are 
available under its law to sanction or remedy violations of its environmental laws.  
 
(a)   Such proceedings shall be fair, open, and equitable, and to this end shall comply 
with the due process of law, and be open to the public (except where the 
administration of justice otherwise requires).  
 
(b)   Each Party shall provide appropriate and effective remedies or sanctions for a 
violation of its environmental laws that:  
   
(i)   take into consideration the nature and gravity of the violation, any 
economic benefit the violator has derived from the violation, the economic 
condition of the violator, and other relevant factors; and     
   
   
 
217 
(ii)   may include remedies  or sanctions such as: compliance agreements, 
penalties, fines, imprisonment, injunctions, the closure of facilities, and 
the cost of containing or cleaning up pollution.  
 
2.    Each Party shall ensure that interested persons may request the Party’s competent 
authorities to investigate alleged violations of its environmental laws and that the competent 
authorities give such requests due consideration in accordance with its law.  
 
3.    Each Party shall ensure that persons with a legally recognized interest under its law in a 
particular matter have appropriate access to judicial, quasi-judicial, or administrative proceedings 
for the enforcement of the Party’s environmental laws.    
   
4.   Each Party shall provide persons appropriate and effective rights of access to remedies, in 
accordance with its laws, which may include rights such as:  
 
(a)   to sue another person under that Party’s jurisdiction for damages;  
 
(b)   to seek sanctions or remedies such as monetary penalties, emergency closures, or 
orders to mitigate the consequences of violations of its environmental laws;  
 
(c)   to request the competent authorities to take appropriate action to enforce that 
Party’s environmental laws in order to protect the environment or to avoid 
environmental harm; or  
 
(d)   to seek injunctions where a person suffers, or may suffer, loss, damage or injury 
as a result of conduct by another person subject to that Party’s jurisdiction 
contrary to that Party’s environmental laws, or from tortious conduct that harms 
human health or the environment.  
 
ARTICLE 18.4 : INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 
 
1.         In addition to discussions of issues or activities related to the operation of this Chapter 
that may take place in the Joint Committee established under Article 20.1 (Joint Committee), the 
Parties shall, at the request of either Party, form a subcommittee consisting of government 
officials to meet at other times, as they deem appropriate, to discuss matters related to the 
operation of this Chapter.  These meetings shall normally include a session where members of 
the subcommittee have an opportunity to meet with the public to discuss matters related to the 
operation of this Chapter.  The Parties, when they consider appropriate, shall jointly prepare 
reports on matters related to the implementation of this Chapter, and shall ma ke such reports 
public, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  
   
2.   Each formal decision of the Parties concerning implementation of this Chapter shall be 
made public, unless the Parties decide otherwise.      
   
   
 
218 
ARTICLE 18.5 : OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC  PARTICIPATION 
   
1.   To ensure the availability of opportunities for public participation in the discussion of 
matters related to the operation of this Chapter, and to facilitate the sharing of best practices and 
the development of innovative approaches to issues of interest to the public with regard to such 
matters, each Party shall develop or maintain procedures for dialogue with its public concerning 
the implementation of this Chapter, including:  
 
(a)   the identification of matters to discuss at the meetings of the Joint Committee or 
the subcommittee described in Article 18.4; and  
 
(b)   opportunities for its public to provide, on an on-going basis, views, 
recommendations, or advice on matters related to the provisions of this Chapter.   
Such views, recommendations, or advice shall be made available to the other 
Party and the public.  
 
2.         Each Party may convene, or consult with an existing, national advisory committee, 
composed of representatives of its environmental and business organizations and other members 
of its public, to advise it on the implementation of this Chapter, as appropriate.  
 
3.         Each Party shall make best efforts to respond favorably to requests for consultations by 
persons or organizations of its territory regarding that Party’s implementation of this Chapter.  
 
ARTICLE 18.6 : ENVIRONMENTAL COOPERATION 
 
1.         The Parties recognize the importance of strengthening capacity to protect the 
environment and to promote sustainable development in concert with the strengthening of trade 
and investment relations between them. The Parties shall, as appropriate, pursue cooperative 
environmental activities, including those pertinent to trade and investment and to strengthening 
environmental performance, such as information reporting, enforcement capacity, and 
environmental management systems, under a Memorandum of Intent on Cooperation in 
Environmental Matters to be entered into between the Government of Singapore and the United 
States and in other fora. The Parties also recognize the ongoing importance of environmental 
cooperation that may be undertaken outside this Agreement.    
 
2.         The Parties shall take into account public comment and recommendations regarding 
cooperative environmental activities undertaken pursuant to this Chapter.  Each Party shall also 
seek opportunities for its citizens to participate in the development and implementation of 
cooperative environmental activities, such as through the use of public-private partnerships.  
 
3.         In addition to the environmental cooperation activities outlined in Paragraph 1 of this 
Article, the Parties shall, as they deem appropriate, share information on their experiences in 
assessing and taking into account positive or negative environmental effects of trade agreements 
and policies.     
   
   
 
219 
ARTICLE 18.7 : ENVIRONMENTAL  CONSULTATIONS   
   
1.   A Party may request consultations with the other Party regarding any matter arising under 
this Chapter.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree, consultations shall commence within 30 days 
of a Party’s delivery of a request for consultations to the contact point designated by the other 
Party for this purpose.   
   
2.   The Parties shall make every attempt to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of the 
matter and may seek advice or assistance from any person or body they deem appropriate.   
   
3.   If the consultations fail to resolve the matter, either Party may request that the 
subcommittee described in Article 18.4 be convened.  The subcommittee shall convene within 30 
days of a Party’s delivery of a written request to convene the subcommittee to the other Party’s 
contact point designated pursuant to paragraph 1,  unless the Parties otherwise agree, and shall 
18-1
endeavor to resolve the matter expeditiously, including, where appropriate, by consulting 
governmental or outside experts and having recourse to such procedures as good offices, 
conciliation, or mediation.  
   
4.   If a Party considers that the other Party has failed to carry out its obligations under 
Article 18.2.1(a), the Party may request consultations pursuant to Article 20.4.2(a) (Additional 
Dispute Settlement Procedures) or under paragraph 1 of this Article.  
 
(a)    If a Party requests consultations pursuant to Article 20.4.2(a) at a time when the 
Parties are engaged in consultations on the same matter under paragraph 1 of this 
Article or the subcommittee is endeavoring to resolve the matter under paragraph 
3, the Parties shall discontinue their efforts to resolve the matter under this 
Article.  Once consultations have begun under Article 20.4.2(a), no consultations 
on the same matter may be entered into under this Article.  
 
(a)       If a Party requests consultations pursuant to Article 20.4.2(a) more than 60 days 
after the commencement of consultations under paragraph 1, the Parties may at 
any time agree to refer the matter to the Joint Committee pursuant to Article 
20.4.2(a).  
 
5.        Articles 20.3 (Consultations) and 20.4 (Additional Dispute Settlement Procedures) shall 
not apply to a matter arising under any provision of this Chapter other than Article 18.2.1(a). 
 
ARTICLE 18.8 : RELATIONSHIP TO ENVIRONMENTAL AGREEMENTS 
 
The Parties recognize the critical role of multilateral environmental agreements in addressing 
some environmental challenges, including through the use of carefully tailored trade measures to 
achieve specific environmental goals and objectives.  Recognizing that WTO Members have 
agreed in paragraph 31 of the Ministerial Declaration adopted on 14 November 2001 in Doha to 
 
   If, on the date a Party delivers a request, the Parties have not established the subcommittee, 
18-1
they shall do so during the 30-day period described in this paragraph.     
   
   
 
220 
negotiations on the relationship between  existing WTO rules and specific trade 
obligations set out in multilateral environmental agreements, the Parties shall consult on the 
extent to which the outcome of those negotiations applies to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 18.9 : PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE  STEWARDSHIP 
 
Recognizing the substantial benefits brought by international trade and investment as well as the 
opportunity for enterprises to implement policies for sustainable development that seek to ensure 
coherence between social, economic and environmental objectives, each Party should encourage 
enterprises operating within its territory or subject to its jurisdiction to voluntarily incorporate 
sound principles of corporate stewardship in their internal policies, such as those principles or 
agreements that have been endorsed by both Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 18.10 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
   
1.   environmental laws means any statutes or regulations of a Party, or provisions thereof, 
the primary purpose of which is the protection of the environment, or the prevention of a danger 
to human, animal, or plant life or health, through:  
 
(a)    the prevention, abatement, or control of the release, discharge, or emission of 
pollutants or environmental contaminants;  
 
(b)    the control of environmentally hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances, 
materials, and wastes, and the dissemination of information related thereto; or  
 
(c)    the protection or conservation of wild flora or fauna, including endangered 
species, their habitat, and specially protected natural areas,  
 
in areas with respect to which a Party exercises sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, but 
does not include any statute or regulation, or provision thereof, directly related to worker safety 
or health; and  
   
2.   (a)   for the United States, statutes or regulations means an act of the U.S. Congress 
or regulations promulgated pursuant to an act of the U.S. Congress that is 
enforceable, in the first instance, by action of the federal government; and  
 
(b)   for Singapore, statutes or regulations means an Act of the Parliament of 
Singapore and any subsidiary legislation made thereunder.  Subsidiary legislation 
includes proclamations, rules, regulations, orders, notifications, by-laws, or other 
instruments made under any Act or other lawful authority and having legislative 
effect.  