- Page 72 -
Article 137
Tourism Promotion and Development
The Parties shall encourage co-operation between parties, one or both of
whom are entities in their respective territories other than the governments of
the Parties, concerning the promotion and development of tourism in the
Parties.
Article 138
Joint Committee on Tourism
1.  For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Tourism (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a) reviewing and discussing issues concerning the effective
implementation of this Chapter;
(b) exchanging views and information on promotion and
development of tourism;
(c)  identifying and recommending ways of further co-operation
between the Parties; and
(d)  discussing other issues relating to tourism.
2. The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 21
DISPUTE AVOIDANCE AND SETTLEMENT
Article 139
Scope of Chapter 21
1. This Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance and settlement
of disputes between the Parties concerning the interpretation or application of
this Agreement or the Implementing Agreement.
2. Nothing in this Chapter shall prejudice any rights of the Parties to have
recourse to dispute settlement procedures available under any other
international agreement to which they are parties.
3. Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, once a dispute settlement
procedure has been initiated under this Chapter or under any other
international agreement to which the Parties are parties with respect to a
particular dispute, that procedure shall be used to the exclusion of any other
procedure for that particular dispute.  However, this does not apply if
substantially separate and distinct rights or obligations under different
international agreements are in dispute.- Page 73 -
4. Paragraph 3 above shall not apply where the Parties expressly agree
to the use of more than one dispute settlement procedure in respect of a
particular dispute.
Article 140
General Consultations for the Avoidance and Settlement of Disputes
1. For the purpose of avoiding disputes, a Party may request
consultations with the other Party with regard to any matter on the
interpretation or application of this Agreement or the Implementing
Agreement.
2. When a Party requests consultations pursuant to paragraph 1 above,
the other Party shall afford adequate opportunity for consultations and shall
reply promptly to the request and enter into consultations in good faith.
3. If the Parties fail to resolve any matter through consultations, either
Party may request a meeting of the Consultative Committee established
pursuant to paragraph 4 below.  The Consultative Committee shall convene
within 30 days after the date of receipt of the request, with a view to a prompt
and satisfactory resolution of the matter.
4. To facilitate the implementation of this Chapter, the Parties establish
the Consultative Committee, which shall consist of representatives of each
Party, including one legal expert designated by each Party.
5. The procedure provided for in this Article shall not be applicable if, in
respect of the same dispute, the procedure provided for in Article 142 has
already been initiated.
Article 141
Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation
1. Good offices, conciliation or mediation may be requested at any time
by either Party.  They may begin at any time if the Parties agree.  The use of
good offices, conciliation or mediation may be terminated at any time at the
request of either Party.
2. If the Parties agree, good offices, conciliation or mediation may
continue while procedures of the arbitral tribunal provided for in this Chapter
are in progress.
Article 142
Special Consultations for Dispute Settlement
1. For the purpose of settling disputes, either Party may make a request
in writing for consultations to the other Party if the requesting Party considers
that any benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly under this Agreement or the
Implementing Agreement is being nullified or impaired, as a result of failure of
the requested Party to carry out its obligations, or as a result of the application- Page 74 -
by the requested Party of measures which conflict with its obligations, under
this Agreement or the Implementing Agreement.
2. Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the requested Party shall:
(a) enter into consultations within 30 days after the date of receipt of
the request for consultations made pursuant to paragraph 1
above; or
(b) enter into consultations within 10 days after the date of receipt of
the request for consultations made pursuant to paragraph 1
above if the procedure provided for in Article 140 was utilised in
respect of the same dispute and 60 days or more have elapsed
from the date of the initiation of consultations under that Article.
3. The Parties shall make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory
resolution through consultations.
4. Where there is an infringement of the obligations assumed under this
Agreement or the Implementing Agreement, such infringement is considered
prima facie to constitute a case of nullification or impairment.
Article 143
Establishment of Arbitral Tribunals
1. Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, if the Parties fail to resolve a
dispute through consultations provided for in Article 142 above, either Party
may request the establishment of an arbitral tribunal in respect of that dispute:
(a) after 60 days from the date on which the requested Party
receives the request for consultations made pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 of Article 142 above; or
(b) after 30 days from the date on which the requested Party
receives the request for consultations made pursuant to sub-
paragraph (b) of paragraph 2 of Article 142 above.
2. Any request to establish an arbitral tribunal pursuant to this Article shall
identify:
(a) the legal basis of the complaint including the provisions of this
Agreement or the Implementing Agreement alleged to have
been breached and any other relevant provisions; and
(b) the factual basis for the complaint.
3. The Parties shall, within 30 days after the date of receipt of the request
for the establishment of an arbitral tribunal, appoint one arbitrator each.  If one
Party fails to so appoint an arbitrator, the legal expert designated by that Party
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 140 shall be appointed as an arbitrator.- Page 75 -
4. The Parties shall agree on and designate a third arbitrator, who shall
chair the arbitral tribunal.  If the Parties fail to agree on the third arbitrator,
each Party shall prepare and exchange with the other Party, a list of five
persons whom that Party can accept as the third arbitrator.  The third
arbitrator shall be chosen in the following manner:
(a) if only one name is common to both lists, that person, if
available, will be chosen as the third arbitrator;
(b) if more than one name appears on both lists, the Parties shall
consult for the purpose of agreeing on the third arbitrator from
such names;
(c) if the Parties are not able to reach agreement in accordance
with sub-paragraph (b) above or if there is no name common to
both lists, or the arbitrator agreed upon or chosen is not
available and the Parties cannot decide on a replacement for the
arbitrator that is not available, then the two arbitrators appointed
pursuant to paragraph 3 above shall agree on the third
arbitrator; and
(d) if the arbitrators are not able to reach agreement on the third
arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be chosen by random drawing
in accordance with the procedure agreed to by the Parties for
this purpose in the Implementing Agreement.
5. The third arbitrator shall be appointed within 40 days after the date of
appointment of the second arbitrator.
6. The third arbitrator shall not, unless the Parties agree otherwise, be a
national of either of the Parties, nor have his or her usual place of residence in
the territory of either of the Parties, nor be employed by either Party, nor have
dealt with the dispute in any capacity.
7. The arbitral tribunal should be composed of arbitrators with relevant
technical or legal expertise.
Article 144
Functions of Arbitral Tribunals
1. The arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Article 143 above:
(a) should consult with the Parties as appropriate and provide
adequate opportunities for the development of a mutually
satisfactory resolution;
(b) shall make its award in accordance with this Agreement, the
Implementing Agreement, and applicable rules of international
law;- Page 76 -
(c) shall set out, in its award, its findings of law and fact, together
with the reasons therefor; and
(d) may, apart from giving its findings, include in its award
suggested implementation options for the Parties to consider in
conjunction with Article 147.
2. The Parties agree that the award of the arbitral tribunal shall be final
and binding on the Parties.
3. The arbitral tribunal may seek, from the Parties, such relevant
information as it considers necessary and appropriate.  The Parties shall
respond promptly and fully to any request by an arbitral tribunal for such
information as the arbitral tribunal considers necessary and appropriate.
4. The arbitral tribunal may seek information from any relevant source
and may consult experts to obtain their opinion on certain aspects of the
matter.  With respect to factual issues concerning a scientific or other
technical matter raised by a Party, the arbitral tribunal may request advisory
reports in writing from an expert or experts.  The arbitral tribunal may, at the
request of a Party or proprio motu, select, in consultation with the Parties, no
fewer than two scientific or technical experts who shall assist the arbitral
tribunal throughout its proceedings, but who shall not have the right to vote in
respect of any decision to be made by the arbitral tribunal, including its award.
5. The deliberations of the arbitral tribunal shall be confidential.  The
award of the arbitral tribunal shall be drafted without the presence of the
Parties, and in the light of the information provided and the statements made.
6. The arbitral tribunal shall issue its award within 120 days of its
establishment, unless the dispute is settled otherwise or the proceeding of the
arbitral tribunal is terminated in accordance with Article 146.  When the
arbitral tribunal is unable to issue its award within 120 days, the arbitral
tribunal may, in consultation with the Parties, agree to delay the issuance of
its award by no more than 30 days.
7. The arbitral tribunal shall accord equal opportunity to the Parties to
review the award in draft form.
8. The arbitral tribunal shall attempt to make its decisions, including its
award, by consensus but may also make such decisions, including its award,
by majority vote.
Article 145
Proceedings of Arbitral Tribunals
1. The arbitral tribunal shall meet in closed session.
2. The deliberations of the arbitral tribunal and the documents submitted
to it shall be kept confidential.- Page 77 -
3. Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, either Party may make public
statements as to its views regarding the dispute, but shall treat as confidential,
information and written submissions submitted by the other Party to the
arbitral tribunal which that other Party has designated as confidential.  Where
a Party has provided information or written submissions designated to be
confidential, the other Party may request a non-confidential summary of the
information or written submissions which may be disclosed publicly.  The
Party to whom such a request is made may agree to such a request and
submit such a summary, or refuse the request without needing to ascribe any
reasons or justification.
4. The Parties shall be given the opportunity to attend any of the
presentations, statements or rebuttals in the proceeding.  Any information or
written submissions submitted by a Party to the arbitral tribunal, including any
comments on the descriptive part of the draft award and responses to
questions put by the arbitral tribunal, shall be made available to the other
Party.
Article 146
Termination of Proceedings
Even if the arbitral tribunal has been established and is proceeding with the
procedure provided for in Article 145 above, the Parties may agree to
terminate the proceedings at any time by jointly so notifying the chair of the
arbitral tribunal.
Article 147
Implementation of Chapter 21
1. The award of the arbitral tribunal made pursuant to Article 144
(hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “the original award”) shall be
complied with promptly.  A Party which is required by the arbitral tribunal to
comply with its award (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “the
implementing Party”) shall, within 20 days after the date of issuance of the
original award, notify the other Party (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as
“the other Party”) as to the period which it assesses to be reasonable and
necessary in order to implement the original award.  Such period may:
(a) extend to 12 months only if administrative or legislative
measures have to be undertaken;
(b) be extended or shortened if the Parties agree that special
circumstances so justify; or
(c) give rise to a request for consultations if the other Party
considers the period notified to be unacceptable, in which case
the Parties shall enter into consultations within 10 days after the
date of receipt of the request.
2. If the implementing Party considers that compliance with the original
award is impracticable, it shall, instead of notifying the period for implementing- Page 78 -
the award in accordance with paragraph 1 above, promptly enter into
consultations with the other Party, with a view to developing a mutually
acceptable resolution, through compensation or any alternative arrangement,
and agreeing on a reasonable period to implement such resolution.
3. If the other Party considers that the measures taken by the
implementing Party to comply with the original award do not comply with the
original award, it may request consultations.
4. Either Party may refer matters arising from the implementation of the
original award to an arbitral tribunal if:
(a) consultations were initiated under sub-paragraph (c) of
paragraph 1 of this Article, and the Parties fail to reach
agreement on the period for implementation within 20 days after
the date of receipt of the request;
(b) consultations were initiated under paragraph 2 of this Article,
and the Parties fail to reach agreement on a mutually acceptable
resolution or the period for its implementation within 30 days
after the date of the initiation of consultations;
(c) consultations were initiated under paragraph 3 above, and the
Parties fail to resolve the matter, and at least 30 days have
elapsed since the date of the expiration of the period for
implementation provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article; or
(d) the Party that is requested to enter into consultations refuses to
do so where required pursuant to paragraph 1, 2 or 3 above.
5. If the arbitral tribunal convened pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) of
paragraph 4 above confirms that the implementing Party has failed to comply
with the original award within the implementation period as determined
pursuant to paragraph 1 or sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 4 above, the other
Party may, within 30 days from the date of such confirmation by the arbitral
tribunal, notify the implementing Party that it intends to suspend the
application to the implementing Party of the obligations of the other Party
under this Agreement or the Implementing Agreement.
6. If the implementing Party has failed to implement the compensation or
other alternative arrangement within the implementation period as determined
pursuant to paragraph 2 or sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 4 of this Article,
the other Party may, within 30 days from the date of the expiration of such
implementation period, notify the implementing Party that it intends to
suspend the application to the implementing Party of the obligations of the
other Party under this Agreement or the Implementing Agreement.
7. Suspension pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 6 above may only be
implemented at least 30 days after the date of the notification in accordance
with that paragraph.  Such suspension:- Page 79 -
(a) shall not be effected if, in respect of the dispute to which the
suspension relates, consultations, or proceedings before an
arbitral tribunal are in progress;
(b) shall be temporary, and shall be discontinued when the Parties
reach a mutually satisfactory resolution or where compliance
with the original award is effected;
(c) shall be restricted to the level of nullification or impairment that
is attributable to the failure to comply with the original award;
and
(d) shall be restricted to the same sector or sectors to which the
nullification or impairment relates, unless it is not practicable or
effective to suspend obligations in such sector or sectors.
8. If the implementing Party considers that the requirements in paragraph
5, 6 or 7 above have not been met, it may request consultations with the other
Party.  The other Party shall enter into consultations within 10 days after the
date of receipt of the request.  If the Parties fail to resolve matters within 30
days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations pursuant to this
paragraph, either Party may refer the matter to an arbitral tribunal.
9. The arbitral tribunal that is convened for the purpose of this Article
shall, wherever possible, have as its members, the members of the original
arbitral tribunal.  If this is not possible, then the members to the arbitral
tribunal shall be appointed pursuant to paragraphs 3 to 7 of Article 143.
Unless the Parties agree to a different period, such arbitral tribunal shall issue
its award within 60 days after the date when the matter is referred to it.
Article 148
Expenses
Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the expenses of the arbitral tribunal,
including the remuneration of its members, shall be borne by the Parties in
equal shares.
CHAPTER 22
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 149
Headings
The headings of the Chapters and the Articles and paragraphs of this
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the interpretation of this Agreement.