- Page 13 -
entitled to an equitable share of the international supply of such
products, and that any such measures, which are inconsistent
with the other provisions of this Agreement shall be discontinued
as soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased to
exist.
2. In the application of paragraph 1 above, the relevant interpretations
and operation of the WTO Agreement shall, where appropriate, be taken into
account.
Article 20
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments under Chapter 2
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party from taking any
measure for balance-of-payments purposes.  A Party taking such measure
shall do so in accordance with the conditions established under Article XII of
GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments Provisions of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO
Agreement.
Article 21
Miscellaneous Provisions under Chapter 2
1. In fulfilling its obligations under this Chapter, each Party shall take such
reasonable measures as may be available to it to ensure the observance of
the provisions of this Chapter by local governments within its territory.
2. If a Party has entered into an international agreement on trade in
goods with a non-Party, or enters into such an agreement after this
Agreement comes into force, it shall favourably consider according to goods
originating in or destined for the territory of the other Party, treatment no less
favourable than the treatment which it accords to like goods originating in or
destined for the territory of that non-Party pursuant to such an agreement.
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF ORIGIN
Article 22
Definitions under Chapter 3
For the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) the term “material” includes ingredients, parts, components,
subassemblies and goods that were physically incorporated into
another good or were subject to a process in the production of
another good;
(b) the term “non-originating material” means a material whose
country of origin, as determined under this Chapter, is not the- Page 14 -
same country as the country in which that material is used in
production; and
(c) the term “production” means methods of obtaining goods
including manufacturing, producing, assembling, processing,
raising, growing, breeding, mining, extracting, harvesting,
fishing, trapping, gathering, collecting, hunting and capturing.
Article 23
Originating Goods
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, goods wholly obtained or
produced entirely in a Party shall be treated as originating goods of that Party.
The following goods shall be considered as being wholly obtained or
produced entirely in a Party:
(a) live animals born and raised in the territory of that Party;
(b) animals obtained by hunting, trapping, fishing, gathering or
capturing in the territory of that Party;
(c) goods obtained from live animals in the territory of that Party;
(d) plants and plant products harvested, picked or gathered in the
territory of that Party;
(e) minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not included
in sub-paragraphs (a) through (d) above, extracted or taken in
the territory of that Party;
(f) goods of sea-fishing and other goods taken from the sea,
outside the territorial sea of that Party, by vessels that are
entitled to fly the flag of that Party;
(g) goods obtained or produced on board factory ships, outside the
territorial sea of that Party, that are entitled to fly the flag of that
Party, provided that these goods are manufactured from goods
referred to in sub-paragraph (f) above;
(h) goods taken from the sea bed or subsoil beneath the sea bed
outside the territorial sea of that Party, in accordance with the
provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea;
(i) articles collected in the territory of that Party which can no
longer perform their original purpose in its territory nor are
capable of being restored or repaired and which are fit only for
disposal or for the recovery of parts or raw materials;
(j) scrap and waste derived from manufacturing or processing
operations or from consumption in the territory of that Party and
fit only for disposal or for the recovery of raw materials;- Page 15 -
(k) parts or raw materials recovered in the territory of that Party
from articles which can no longer perform their original purpose
nor are capable of being restored or repaired; and
(l) goods obtained or produced in the territory of that Party solely
from goods referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) through (k) above.
2. For the purposes of this Agreement, goods which have undergone
sufficient transformation in a Party shall be treated as originating goods of that
Party.  Goods which satisfy the product-specific rules provided for in Annex IIA
shall be considered as goods to which sufficient transformation has been
carried out in a Party.
3. Product-specific rules requiring that the materials used undergo a
change in tariff classification or a specific manufacturing or processing
operation shall apply only to non-originating materials.
4. (a) Product-specific rules using the value-added method require
that:
(i) the qualifying value content of the good, determined in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b) below and Article 24
below, is not less than the percentage specified by the
rule for the good in Annex IIA; and
(ii) the good has undergone its last production or operation
which satisfies the requirement of sub-paragraph (i)
above in the territory of either Party.
(b) For the purpose of calculating the qualifying value content of a
good pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, the following formula
shall be applied:
Q.V.C.   =    F.O.B. – N.Q.M.  x 100
       F.O.B.
Where:
Q.V.C. is the qualifying value content of a good,
expressed as a percentage;
F.O.B. is the free-on-board value of a good payable by
the buyer to the seller, regardless of the mode of
shipment, not including any internal excise taxes
reduced, exempted, or repaid when the good is exported;
and
N.Q.M. is the non-qualifying value of materials used by
the producer in the production of the good, calculated in
accordance with sub-paragraph (c) below.- Page 16 -
(c) For the purpose of calculating the non-qualifying value of
materials pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) above, the following
formula shall be applied:
N.Q.M. = T.V.M. – Q.V.M.
Where:
T.V.M. is the total value of materials; and
Q.V.M. is the qualifying value of materials.
5. For the purpose of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 4 above:
(a) the qualifying value of materials shall be:
(i) the total value of the material if the material satisfies the
requirements of sub-paragraph (b) below; or
(ii) the value of the material that can be attributed to one or
both of the Parties if the material does not satisfy the
requirements of sub-paragraph (b) below; and
(b) for the purpose of sub-paragraph (a) above, a material shall be
considered to have satisfied the requirements of this sub-
paragraph if:
(i) the content of the value of the material that can be
attributed to one or both of the Parties is not less than 60
per cent of the total value of the material; and
(ii) the material has undergone its last production or
operation in the territory of either Party.
6. The value of a material used in the production of a good in a Party shall
be the CIF value and shall be determined in accordance with the Agreement
on Customs Valuation, or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the
first ascertainable price paid for the material in the Party.
7. A material used in the production of a good, for which no product-
specific rule is provided for in Annex IIA:
(a) shall not be deemed a non-originating material if the material
satisfies the same product-specific rule, specified for the good in
Annex IIA, requiring a change in tariff classification or a specific
manufacturing or processing operation; or
(b) shall be deemed a qualifying material if the material satisfies the
same product-specific rule, specified for the good in Annex IIA,
using the value-added method.- Page 17 -
Article 24
Accumulation
1. For the purpose of determining whether a good is an originating good
of the other Party, either Party shall consider the production in its territory as
that in the territory of the other Party, where such good is produced in the
territory or territories of one or both Parties.
2. The production of a Party includes the production at different stages
undertaken by one or more producers located in its territory.
Article 25
De Minimis
For the application of the product-specific rules provided for in Annex IIA, non-
originating materials which do not satisfy the rules shall be disregarded,
provided that the totality of such materials does not exceed specific
percentages in value, weight or volume of the good, as provided for in each
chapter of Annex IIA.
Article 26
Insufficient Operations
1. The following operations or processes shall not be considered as the
sufficient transformation provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 23:
(a) operations to ensure the preservation of products in good
condition during transport and storage (such as drying, freezing,
keeping in brine) and other similar operations;
(b) changes of packaging and breaking up and assembly of
packages;
(c) affixing marks, labels and other like distinguishing signs on
products or their packaging;
(d) disassembly;
(e) placing in bottles, cases, boxes and other simple packaging
operations;
(f) simple cutting;
(g) simple mixing;
(h) simple assembly of parts to constitute a complete product;
(i) simple making-up of sets of articles; and
(j) a combination of two or more operations referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) through (i) above.- Page 18 -
2. A Party shall not exclude the value added through any of the
operations or processes provided for in paragraph 1 above in calculating the
qualifying value content of a good.
3. An originating good shall not lose its originating condition merely
because it undergoes, outside the territory of either of the Parties, any of the
operations provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article 27
Consignment Criteria
The originating goods of the other Party shall be deemed to meet the
consignment criteria when they are:
(a) transported directly from the territory of the other Party; or
(b) transported through the territory or territories of one or more
non-Parties for the purpose of transit or temporary storing in
warehouses in such territory or territories, provided that they do
not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or
operations to preserve them in good condition.
Article 28
Unassembled or Disassembled Goods
A good that is imported into the territory of either Party in an unassembled or
disassembled form but is classified as an assembled good pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 of the General Rule for the
Interpretation of the Harmonized System shall be considered as an originating
good, if the good meets the requirements of the relevant provisions of Articles
23 through 26.
Article 29
Claim for Preferential Tariff Treatment
1. The importing Party may require a certificate of origin for an originating
good of the other Party from importers who claim the preferential tariff
treatment provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 14 for the good.
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 above, the importing Party shall not
require a certificate of origin from importers for:
(a) an importation of a consignment of a good whose aggregate
customs value does not exceed JPY200,000 or its equivalent
amount; or
(b) an importation of a good into its territory, for which the importing
Party has waived the requirement for a certification of origin.
3. Where originating goods are imported through the territory or territories
of one or more non-Parties, the importing Party may request importers, who- Page 19 -
claim the preferential tariff treatment provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 14
for the goods, to submit a copy of through bill of lading, or a certificate or any
other information given by the customs administration of such non-Parties or
other relevant entities, which evidences that they do not undergo operation
other than unloading, reloading or operations to preserve them in good
condition in such territory or territories.
Article 30
Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment
The importing Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good for which
an importer in its territory claims preferential tariff treatment where the good
does not meet the requirements of this Chapter or where the importer fails to
comply with any of the relevant requirements of this Chapter.
Article 31
Certificate of Origin
1. The certificate of origin referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 29 shall be
that issued by the certification bodies designated by the exporting Party.
2. Such certificate of origin shall include minimum data specified in Annex
IIB.
3. The issued certificate of origin shall be valid for 12 months from the
date of issue.
Article 32
Advance Rulings
1. The importing Party shall, prior to the importation of a good into its
territory, issue a written advance ruling in accordance with its laws and
regulations as to whether the good qualifies as an originating good to
importers of the good or their agents and exporters of the good or their
agents, where a written application is made with all the necessary information
and the Party has no reasonable grounds to deny the issuance. The importing
Party shall endeavour to issue such advance ruling regarding the origin of the
good within 30 days of receipt of all the necessary documents for the advance
ruling.
2. The importing Party shall respect the issued ruling with regard to
importation into its territory of the good for which the ruling was issued for a
period of three years from the date of issuance of the advance ruling.
3. The importing Party may modify or revoke the issued ruling:
(a) if the ruling was based on an error of fact;
(b) if there is a change in the material facts or circumstances on
which the ruling was based; or- Page 20 -
(c) to conform with an amendment to this Agreement.
Article 33
Assistance for Checking of Certificate of Origin
The importing Party may, within three years after the importation of the good,
request the exporting Party to assist to check the authenticity or accuracy of
the certificate of origin. Where such request has been made, the exporting
Party shall endeavour to take necessary measures to provide the assistance
requested.
Article 34
Joint Committee on Rules of Origin
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Rules of Origin (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a) to consult regularly to ensure the effective implementation of the
provisions in this Chapter;
(b) to discuss necessary amendments of the provisions of this
Chapter, including Annex IIA, taking into account developments
in production processes or other matters (including the
recommended amendments to the Harmonized System);
(c) to submit the recommendation on the amendments to the
Supervisory Committee; and
(d) to discuss any issues concerning rules of origin.
CHAPTER 4
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES
Article 35
Scope of Chapter 4
This Chapter shall apply to customs procedures required for the clearance of
goods traded between the Parties.
Article 36
Customs Clearance
For prompt customs clearance of goods traded between the Parties, each
Party shall:
(a) make use of information and communications technology;
(b) simplify its customs procedures; and