ANNEX 10 
 
 RULES OF PROCEDURE  
 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
Rule 1 
Calculation of Deadlines 
 
1.  All terms established under this Annex shall be counted in calendar days from the 
day following the act or fact to which they refer. 
 
2.  Any deadline mentioned in this Annex may be extended by mutual agreement of 
the disputing Parties. 
 
3.   Where any disputing Party receives a document on a date other than the date on 
which the same document is received by the other disputing Party, any period of time, the 
calculation of which is dependent on such receipt, shall be calculated from the date of 
receipt of the last such document. 
 
 
CONSULTATIONS AND MEDIATION 
 
Rule 2 
Consultations 
 
1.  Consultations shall be held within thirty (30) days of the request being delivered, 
and shall, unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise, be held on the territory of the 
responding Party. The consultations shall be deemed concluded within sixty (60) days 
from  the  date  of  the  consultation  request,  unless  both  Parties  agree  to  continue 
consultations. The proceedings and all information disclosed during the consultations 
shall remain confidential. 
 
2.  If consultations are not held within the timeframe laid down in paragraph 1 of this 
Rule,  the responding  Party  may  proceed  directly  to  request  the  establishment  of  an 
arbitration panel in accordance with Article 9.4. 
 
Rule 3 
Mediation 
 
1.  Should the disputing Parties agree to refer the dispute for mediation, they will 
jointly appoint a mediator within ten (10) days of such an agreement. Where the Parties 
are unable to agree on the appointment of a mediator, they may request the Chairpersons 
of the Joint Committee to appoint a mediator for them. A mediator shall not be a national 
of either of the disputing Parties.  
 2.  The mediator shall convene a meeting with the disputing Parties no later than 
thirty (30) days after being appointed. The mediator will be supplied with the submissions 
of the disputing Parties no later than fifteen (15) days before the meeting and will issue an 
opinion  no  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  meeting  the  disputing  Parties.  The 
mediator's opinion may include steps to resolve the dispute that are consistent with this 
Agreement. The mediator's opinion shall be non-binding. The mediation proceedings and 
all information disclosed during mediation shall remain confidential. 
 
3.  The disputing Parties shall inform the Joint Committee as soon as possible of any 
dispute referred by them to mediation. The Joint Committee shall also be informed of the 
outcome of the mediation proceedings.  
 
 
ARBITRATION 
 
Rule 4 
Commencing the Arbitration 
 
1.  Unless the disputing Parties otherwise agree, they shall meet with the arbitration 
panel within thirty (30) days following the date of the establishment of the arbitration 
panel in order to determine such matters that the disputing Parties or the arbitration panel 
deem appropriate, including the remuneration and expenses that shall be paid to the 
arbitrators, which shall conform to the WTO standards. In case of a dispute on the 
remuneration and expenses, the arbitration panel shall decide on this issue.  
 
2 (a).  Unless  the  disputing  Parties  otherwise  agree,  the  terms  of  reference  of  the 
arbitration panel shall be the following: 
 
"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the Agreement, the 
matter referred to in the request for the establishment of an arbitration 
panel pursuant to Article 9.4 and to make findings of law and fact together 
with the reasons therefore for the resolution of the dispute.” 
 
(b).   The disputing Parties shall promptly deliver any agreed terms of reference to the 
arbitration panel. 
 
 
Rule 5 
Operation of Arbitration Panels 
 
1.   The Chairperson of the arbitration panel shall preside at all of its meetings. An 
arbitration panel may delegate to the Chairperson authority to make administrative and 
procedural decisions. 
 
2.   With the exception of hearings, the arbitration panel may conduct its activities by 
any means, including telephone, facsimile transmissions, electronic mail, video link or 
computer links, unless otherwise provided in these rules.  
 3.   Only the arbitrators may take part in the deliberations of the arbitration panel but the 
arbitration panel may permit their assistants to be present during such deliberations. 
 
4.   The drafting of any decision and ruling shall remain the exclusive responsibility of 
the arbitration panel. 
 
5.  Where a procedural question arises that is not covered by these rules, an arbitration 
panel may adopt an appropriate procedure provided that it is not inconsistent with this 
Agreement.  
 
6.   When  the  arbitration  panel  considers  that  it  needs  to  modify  any  time  period 
applicable  in  the  proceeding,  or  to  make  any  other  procedural  or  administrative 
adjustment in the proceeding, it shall inform the disputing Parties in writing of the 
reasons for the modification or adjustment, indicating the period or adjustment needed. 
 
 
Rule 6 
Initial submissions 
 
1.  The complaining Party shall deliver its initial written submission to the arbitration 
panel no later than twenty-five (25) days after the date of establishment of the arbitration 
panel, with a copy sent simultaneously to the responding Party. 
 
2.  The responding Party shall deliver its written counter-submission to the arbitration 
panel no later than thirty-five (35) days after the date of receipt of the initial written 
submission by the complaining Party, with a copy sent simultaneously to the complaining 
Party.  
 
 
Rule 7 
Hearings 
 
1.  The  proceedings  and  deliberations  of  an  arbitration  panel  and  the  documents 
submitted to it  shall be kept  confidential.  An arbitration panel shall meet in closed 
session, unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise. 
 
2.  The disputing Parties shall agree on the venue of the hearings of the arbitration 
panel. In the absence of such agreement, the hearings of the arbitration panel shall be 
conducted at a venue determined by the Chairperson of the arbitration panel provided that 
that venue is not within the territory of the complaining Party.  
 
3.   The Chairperson shall fix the date and time of a hearing in consultation with the 
disputing parties and the other members of the arbitration panel. The Chairperson shall 
notify in writing to the disputing parties of the date, time and location of the hearing. The 
arbitration panel may decide not to convene a hearing unless the disputing Parties agree 
otherwise. 
  4.  The arbitration panel may convene additional hearings if the disputing Parties so 
agree. 
 
5.  The three (3) arbitrators shall be present at all hearings. 
 
6.  The following persons may attend the hearing: 
 
(a)   representatives of the disputing Parties; 
 
(b)   advisers of the disputing Parties;  
 
(c)  administration personnel, interpreters and translators; and 
 
(d)  arbitrators’ assistants. 
 
7.  Only representatives and advisers of a disputing Party may address the arbitration 
panel. 
 
8.  Each disputing Party shall deliver in advance of the meeting a list of the names of 
those persons who will make oral arguments or presentations at the hearing on behalf of 
that disputing Party and of other representatives or advisers who will be attending the 
hearing. 
 
9.  The arbitration panel shall conduct the hearing in the following manner, ensuring 
that the complaining Party and the responding Party are afforded equal time: 
 
  Argument 
 
(a)  argument of the complaining Party 
 
(b)  argument of the responding Party 
 
  Rebuttal Argument 
 
(a)  rebuttal argument of the responding Party 
 
(b)   counter-rebuttal argument of the complaining Party. 
 
10.  The arbitration panel may direct questions to either disputing Party at any time 
during a hearing. 
 
11.  The arbitration panel shall arrange for a transcript of each hearing to be prepared 
and shall, as soon as possible after it is prepared, deliver a copy of the transcript to the 
disputing Parties. 
 
12.  Within fifteen (15) days after the date of the hearing, each disputing Party may 
deliver a supplementary written submission responding to any matter that arose during the 
hearing. Rule 8 
Questions in Writing 
 
1.   The arbitration panel may, at any time during the proceedings, address questions 
in writing to one or both disputing Parties.  
 
2.   A disputing Party to whom the arbitration panel addresses written questions to, 
shall deliver a copy of any written reply to the other disputing Party and the arbitration 
panel. Each disputing Party shall be given the opportunity to provide written comments to 
the reply within ten days after the receipt of such written comments. 
 
 
Rule 9 
Confidentiality 
 
Each  disputing  Party  shall  treat  as  confidential the  proceedings  and  the  information 
submitted by the other disputing Party to the arbitration panel which that disputing Party 
has designated as confidential.  
 
 
Rule 10 
Ex Parte Contacts 
 
1.   The arbitration panel shall not meet or contact a disputing Party in the absence of 
the other disputing Party. 
 
2.   No arbitrator may discuss an aspect of the subject matter of the proceeding with 
any disputing Party in the absence of the other arbitrators. 
 
 
Rule 11 
Role of Experts 
 
1.   On request of a disputing Party or on its own initiative, the arbitration panel may 
obtain information and technical advice from any natural or juridical person or body that 
it  deems  appropriate.  Any  information  and  technical  advice  so  obtained  shall  be 
submitted to the disputing Parties for comments. 
 
2.   When  a  request  is  made  for  a  written  report  of  an  expert,  any  time  period 
applicable to the arbitration panel proceeding shall be suspended for a period beginning 
on the date of receipt of the request and ending on the date the report is received by the 
arbitration panel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rule 12 
Award of Arbitration Panel 
 
1.  All decisions of the arbitration panel, including the adoption of the award, shall be 
taken by majority vote. 
 
2.  The award shall set out the findings of fact, the applicability of the relevant 
provisions of the Agreement and the rationale behind any findings and conclusions.   
 
3.  The award of the arbitration panel shall be drafted without the presence of the 
disputing Parties and in the light of the information provided and the statements made in 
the proceedings. Opinions expressed in the award of the arbitration panel by its individual 
arbitrator shall be anonymous.  
 
4.  The  arbitration  panel  shall,  within  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  its 
establishment, issue to the disputing Parties its draft award including both the descriptive 
part and its findings and conclusions for the purposes of enabling the disputing Parties to 
review precise aspects of the draft award. 
 
5.  When the arbitration panel considers that it cannot issue its draft award within the 
aforementioned ninety (90) day period, it shall inform the disputing Parties in writing of 
the reasons for the delay, together with the estimate of the period within which it will 
issue its draft award. 
 
6.  The disputing Parties may submit comments in writing to the arbitration panel on 
the draft award within fifteen (15) days after the date of issuance of the draft award. 
 
7  Where written comments by the disputing Parties as provided for in paragraph 6 of 
this Rule are received, the arbitration panel, on its own initiative or at the request of a 
disputing Party,  may reconsider its award and make any  further examination that it 
considers appropriate. 
 
8.  The  arbitration  panel  shall  issue  its  award  to  the  disputing  Parties  within  one 
hundred and twenty (120) days following the establishment of the arbitration panel. 
Where the arbitration panel considers that this deadline cannot be met, the Chairperson of 
the arbitration panel must notify disputing Parties in writing, stating the reasons for the 
delay. Under no circumstances should the ruling be issued later than one hundred and 
sixty (160) days following the establishment of the arbitration panel. 
 
9.  The disputing Parties shall keep the Joint Committee informed of any arbitration 
proceedings and their outcomes.  
 
 
Rule 13 
Perishable Goods 
 
In cases of urgency involving perishable goods, the arbitration panel shall make every 
effort to issue its ruling within seventy-five (75) days from the establishment of the arbitration panel under Article 9.4. Under no circumstance should it take longer than one 
hundred  (100)  days  from  the  date  of  establishment  of  the  arbitration  panel  under 
paragraph 8 of Article 9.5. The arbitration panel may give a preliminary ruling within ten 
(10) days from its establishment on whether it deems the case to be urgent. 
 
 
Rule 14 
Compliance with Award 
 
1.  In the event that, according to paragraph 2 of Article 9.9, the original arbitration 
panel is requested to establish a reasonable period of time to implement the arbitration 
panel’s award different from one hundred eighty (180) days, this panel will issue its 
award within twenty (20) days from the date of its re-establishment.  
 
2.  If the original arbitration panel is requested to rule on the consistency of a measure 
adopted by the responding Party with its initial ruling under paragraph 5 of Article 9.9, 
the  arbitration  panel  will  issue  its  award  within  forty-five  (45)  days  of  its  re-
establishment.   
 
3. Where following a request for the re-establishment of the original arbitration panel 
under paragraphs 2 or 5 of Article 9.9, the original arbitration panel, or some of its 
members, is unable to reconvene, the procedures under Article 9.5 shall apply. The period 
for  issuing  its  award  in  this  instance  remains  the  same  as  that  established  under 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Rule. 
 
4.  In  dealing  with  requests  falling  under  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Rule,  the 
arbitration panel will follow the procedure stipulated under this Annex, mutatis mutandis.   
 
 
 
Rule 15 
Administrative Arrangements 
 
  The  complaining  Party  shall  be  in  charge  of  providing  reasonable  logistical 
administration of dispute settlement proceedings, and in particular the organisation of 
hearings, unless otherwise agreed. Where the complaining Party fails to discharge its 
obligations  under  this  clause,  the  responding  Party  may  proceed  to  undertake  these 
obligations.  
 
 
Rule 16 
Notifications 
 
1.  Any request, notice, written submissions or other document shall be delivered by 
either disputing Party or the arbitration panel by delivery against receipt, registered post, 
courier, facsimile transmission, telex, telegram or any other means of telecommunication 
that provides a record of the receipt thereof. 
 2.  A disputing Party shall provide a copy of each of its written submissions to another 
disputing Party and to each of the arbitrators. A copy of the document also shall be 
provided in electronic format. 
 
3.  Minor errors of a clerical nature in any request, notice, written submission or other 
document related to the arbitration panel proceeding may be corrected by delivery of a 
new document clearly indicating the changes. 
 
4.  If the last day for delivery of a document falls on an official holiday of a disputing 
Party, the document may be delivered on the next business day. 
   
 
Rule 17 
Translation and Interpretation 
 
1.  Each disputing Party shall, within a reasonable period of time and before delivering 
its initial written submission, advise the other disputing Party and the arbitration panel in 
which language its written and oral submissions will be made. 
 
2.    A disputing Party shall arrange for and bear the costs of the translation of its oral or 
written submissions into the language chosen by the other disputing Party.  
 
3.  Arbitration panel awards shall be issued in the language or languages chosen by the 
disputing Parties. The costs of translation shall be borne equally by the disputing Parties.  
 
Rule 18 
Language 
 
The written and oral submissions will be made in the Arabic language or the English 
language by the GCC Member States, and in the English language by Singapore. The 
disputing Parties will provide a copy of their written and oral submissions in the English 
language. In case of divergence, the English language text shall prevail. 
 
 