CHAPTER 6 
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.1 
General 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of government procurement in trade relations 
and set as their objective the effective, reciprocal and gradual opening of their 
government procurement markets, in order to maximize, inter alia, competitive 
opportunities for the suppliers of the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.2 
Definitions 
 
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: 
 
(a)  e-procurement  means  government  procurement  undertaken  through 
electronic means; 
 
(b)  entities means the entities of a Party covered in Annexes 8A, 8B and 8C; 
 
(c)  government procurement means the process by which a covered entity 
obtains the use of or acquires goods or services, or any combination 
thereof, by contractual means for governmental purposes and not with a 
view to commercial sale or resale, or use in the production or supply of 
goods or services for commercial sale or resale. Government procurement 
includes procurement by such methods as purchase, lease or rental, with 
or without the option to buy; 
 
(d)  in writing or written means any worded or numbered expression that can 
be read, reproduced and later communicated. It may include electronically 
transmitted and stored information; 
 
(e)  national  technical  regulation  means  a  document  which  lays  down 
characteristics  of  a  good  or  a  service  or  their  related  processes  and 
production methods, including the applicable administrative provisions, 
with  which  compliance  is  mandatory.  It  may  also  include  or  deal 
exclusively with terminology, symbols, packaging, marking or labelling 
requirements  as  they  apply  to  a  good,  service,  process  or  production 
method; 
 
(f)  person means a natural person or a juridical person of a Party; 
 
(g)  recognised  national  standard  means  a  document  approved  by  a 
recognised  body,  that  provides,  for  common  and  repeated  use,  rules, 
guidelines or characteristics for goods or services or related processes and 
51 production methods, with which compliance is not mandatory.  It may 
also include or deal exclusively with terminology, symbols, packaging, 
marking  or  labelling  requirements  as  they  apply  to  a  good,  service, 
process or production method; 
 
(h)  services includes construction services, unless otherwise specified; 
 
(i)  suppliers means a person or a group of persons that provides or could 
provide goods or services; 
 
(j)  technical specifications means a tendering requirement prescribed by a 
covered entity that: 
 
(i)  lays down the characteristics of goods or services to be procured, 
including quality, performance, safety, and dimensions, or the 
processes and methods for their production or provision; or 
 
(ii)  addresses terminology, symbols, packaging, marking or labelling 
requirements, as they apply to a good or service. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.3 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to any law, regulation, procedure or practice regarding 
any procurement by entities covered by this Chapter subject to the conditions 
specified by each Party in its respective Annexes. 
 
2.  This Chapter applies to procurement by any contractual means, including 
through such methods as purchase or as lease, rental or hire purchase, with or 
without an option to buy, of goods or services (including construction services), or 
any combination of goods and services.  
 
3.  This Chapter applies to any procurement contract of a value of not less than 
the relevant threshold specified in Annex 8A. 
 
4.  All entities, goods and services not listed in Annex 8A are not covered 
under this Chapter. 
 
5.  No entity may prepare, design, assign or otherwise structure or divide, at 
any stage of the procurement, any procurement in order to avoid the obligations of 
this Chapter. 
 
6.  Except where provided otherwise in a Party's Annex 8A, this Chapter does 
not apply to: 
 
(a)  the  acquisition  or  rental  of  land,  existing  buildings,  or  other 
immovable property or the rights thereon; 
52  
(b)  non-contractual agreements or any form of assistance that a Party 
provides, including cooperative agreements, grants, loans, equity 
infusions, guarantees, and fiscal incentives; 
 
(c)  the  procurement or  acquisition  of  fiscal agency  or  depository 
services,  liquidation  and  management  services  for  regulated 
financial institutions, or services related to the sale, redemption 
and distribution of public debt, including loans and government 
bonds, notes and other securities; 
 
(d)  public employment contracts; 
 
(e)  procurement conducted: 
 
(i)  for  the  specific  purpose  of  providing  international 
assistance, including development aid; 
 
(ii)  under  the  particular  procedure  or  condition  of  an 
international  agreement  relating  to  the  stationing  of 
troops  or  relating  to  the  joint  implementation  by  the 
signatory countries of a project; or 
 
(iii)  under  the  particular  procedure  or  condition  of  an 
international  organisation,  or  funded  by  international 
grants, loans, or other assistance where the applicable 
procedure or condition would be inconsistent with this 
Agreement; and 
 
(f)  contracts  awarded  pursuant  to  all  government  procurement  in 
goods, services and construction that will be executed in or for 
the benefits of the two Holy Cities of Makkah and Medina in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
 
7.  The provisions of this Chapter do not affect the rights and obligations 
provided for in Chapter 2 (Trade in Goods), and Chapter 5 (Trade in Services). 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.4 
National Treatment and Non-Discrimination 
 
1.   With respect to all laws, regulations, procedures and practices regarding 
government  procurement  covered  by  this  Chapter,  each  Party  shall  provide 
immediately and unconditionally to the goods, services and suppliers of another 
Party offering such goods and services, treatment no less favourable than that 
accorded to domestic goods, services and suppliers. 
 
2.   With respect to all laws, regulations, procedures and practices regarding 
53 government procurement covered by this Chapter, each Party shall ensure that: 
 
(a)  its  entities  shall  not  treat  a  locally  established  supplier  less 
favourably than another locally established supplier on the basis 
of degree of foreign affiliation to, or ownership by, a person of 
the other Party; and 
 
(b)  its entities  shall  not  discriminate  against  a  locally  established 
supplier on the basis that it is a supplier of a goods or services of 
the other Party. 
 
3.  The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply to 
customs  duties  and  charges  of  any  kind  imposed  on  or  in  connection  with 
importation,  the  method  of  levying  such  duties  and  charges,  other  import 
regulations and formalities, and measures affecting trade in services other than 
laws, regulations, procedures and practices regarding government procurement 
covered by this Chapter.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.5 
Valuation of Intended Procurements 
   
1.  The following provisions shall apply in determining the value of intended 
procurements for the purposes of implementing this Chapter: 
 
(a)  Valuation  shall  take  into  account  all  forms  of  remuneration, 
including  any  premiums,  fees,  commissions  and  interest 
receivable;  
 
(b)  The selection of a valuation method by a covered entity shall not 
be made, nor shall any procurement requirement be divided, with 
the intention of avoiding the application of this Chapter; and 
 
(c)  In cases where an intended procurement specifies the need for 
option clauses, the basis for valuation shall be the total value of 
the  maximum  permissible  procurement,  inclusive  of  any 
additional purchases which are optional. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.6 
Rules of Origin 
 
A Party shall not apply rules of origin to goods or services imported or supplied 
for purposes of government procurement covered by this Chapter from another 
Party, which are different from the rules of origin applied in the normal course of 
trade and at the time of the transaction in question to imports or supplies of the 
same goods or services from that Party. 
 
54  
ARTICLE 6.7 
Transitional Period for Price Preference 
 
During a transitional period of ten (10) years, a GCC Member State may grant a 
price preference of ten percent (10%) for the use of any goods and services 
produced domestically for the procurement of goods and services listed in Annex 
8A.  A GCC Member State adopting this transitional period price preference shall 
extend such preference treatment to suppliers of Singapore for the use of the goods 
and services produced domestically at any GCC Member state. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.8 
Small and Medium Sized Enterprises 
 
The Parties reserve the right to apply a ten percent (10%) price preference for the 
Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) in their respective countries. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.9 
Transparency 
 
Each  Party  shall  promptly  publish  any  law,  regulation,  and  administrative 
procedures of general application, and any procedure (including standard contract 
clauses)  regarding  government  procurement  covered  by  this  Chapter,  in  the 
appropriate publications listed in that Party’s Annex 8B, and to enable the other 
Party and suppliers to become acquainted with them. Each Party shall be prepared, 
upon request, to explain to another Party its government procurement procedures.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.10 
Tendering Procedures 
 
1.  Entities shall normally procure by open or selective tendering and may also 
procure by limited tendering or by negotiation for the selection of the successful 
supplier as set out in Articles 6.11, 6.12 and 6.13 respectively. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  open tendering procedures means a procurement method where 
all interested suppliers may submit a tender; 
 
(b)  selective tendering procedures means a procurement method 
where only suppliers satisfying the conditions for participation 
are invited by the procuring entity to submit a tender; 
 
(c)  limited  tendering  means  a  procurement  method  where  the 
procuring entity contacts a supplier or suppliers of its choice; 
55  
 
ARTICLE 6.11 
Selective Tendering 
 
1.  Entities that intended to use selective tendering shall: 
 
(a)  invite suppliers to submit a request for participation by means of 
a notice of intended procurement inviting suppliers to submit a 
request for participation; 
 
(b)  indicate the time-limit for submitting requests for participation; 
and 
 
(c)  before the commencement of the time period for tendering invite 
qualified suppliers to submit a tender. 
 
2.  When  using  selective  tendering  procedures,  a  procuring  entity  shall 
recognise as qualified suppliers any domestic suppliers and any suppliers of the 
other Party that meet the conditions for participation in a particular procurement, 
unless the procuring entity states in the notice of intended procurement or, where 
publicly available, in the tender documentation any limitation on the number of 
suppliers that will be permitted to tender and the criteria for selecting the limited 
number of suppliers. Procuring entities shall select the suppliers to participate in 
the selective tendering procedure in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. 
 
3.  Where the tender documentation is not made publicly available from the 
date of publication of the notice of intended procurement, procuring entities shall 
ensure  that  those  documents  are  made  available  at  the  same  time  to  all  the 
qualified suppliers selected in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.12 
Limited Tendering 
 
1.  Subject to the conditions established in paragraph 2 of this Article, when 
using the limited tendering procedure, a procuring entity may choose not to apply 
Articles 6.10 to 6.11 and 6.13. 
 
2.  Provided that limited tendering is not used to avoid competition or in a 
manner that discriminates against suppliers of another Party, entities may apply 
limited tendering procedure in the following cases: 
 
(a)  where no suitable tenders have been submitted in response to an 
open or selective tender, provided that the requirements of the 
initial tender are not substantially modified; 
 
(b)  where,  for  works  of  art,  or,  for  technical  or  artistic  reasons 
56 connected with protection of exclusive rights, the contract may be 
performed  only  by  a  particular  supplier  and  no  reasonable 
alternative or substitute exists; 
 
(c)  for reasons of extreme urgency brought by events unforeseeable 
by the entity, the products or services could not be obtained in 
time by using open or selective tendering procedures;  
 
(d)  for  additional  deliveries  of  goods  or  services  by  the  original 
supplier that were not included in the initial procurement where a 
change of supplier for such additional goods or services cannot 
be made for economic or technical reasons such as requirements 
of interchangeability or interoperability with existing equipment, 
software,  services,  or  installations  procured  under  the  initial 
procurement; 
 
(e)  where an entity procures prototypes or a first good or service that 
is developed at its request in the course of, and for, a particular 
contract for research, experiment, study or original development 
of a first good or service; 
 
(f)  where additional services which were not included in the initial 
contract but which  were  within  the  objectives  of the  original 
tender documentation have, through unforeseeable circumstances, 
become  necessary  to  complete  the  services  described  therein. 
However, the total value of contracts awarded for the additional 
services may not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the 
main contract; 
 
(g)  for new services consisting of the repetition of similar services 
which conform to a basic project for which an initial contract was 
awarded and for which the entity has indicated in the notice of 
intended procurement concerning the initial service, that limited 
tendering procedures might be used in awarding contracts for 
such new services; 
 
(h)  for goods purchased on a commodity market; 
 
(i)  in the case of contracts awarded to the winner of a design contest; 
where there are several successful candidates, the participants are 
evaluated by an independent panel or experts with a view to a 
design contract being awarded to a winner; and 
 
(j)  for purchases made under exceptionally advantageous conditions 
that only arise in the very short term  in  the case of unusual 
disposals such as those arising from liquidation, receivership or 
bankruptcy but not for routine purchases from regular suppliers. 
 
57  
ARTICLE 6.13 
Negotiations 
 
1.  A Party may provide for its entities to conduct negotiations: 
 
(a)  in the context of procurements in which they have indicated such 
intent in the notice of intended procurement; or 
 
(b)  where  it  appears  from  the  evaluation  that  no  one  tender  is 
obviously  the  most  advantageous  in  terms  of  the  specific 
evaluation criteria set out in the notices or tender documentation. 
 
2.  An entity shall: 
   
(a)  ensure  that  any  elimination  of  suppliers  participating  in 
negotiations  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  evaluation 
criteria set out in the notices or tender documentation; and 
 
(b)  where negotiations are concluded, provide a common deadline 
for the remaining participating suppliers to submit any new or 
revised tenders. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.14 
Publication of Notice of Intended Procurement 
 
1.   An entity shall, for each procurement covered by this Chapter, publish in 
advance  a  notice  inviting  all  interested  suppliers  to  submit  tenders  for  that 
procurement (“notice of intended procurement”), except as otherwise provided for 
in Article 6.12. This notice shall be published in the appropriate publication listed 
in Annex 8B. Each such notice shall be valid during the entire period established 
for tendering for the relevant procurement. 
 
2.   Each notice of intended procurement shall include a description of the 
intended procurement, any conditions that suppliers must fulfil to participate in the 
procurement, the name of the entity issuing the notice, the address and contact 
where suppliers may obtain all documents relating to the procurement, the time 
limits for submission of tenders and the dates for delivery of the goods or services 
to be procured. 
 
ARTICLE 6.15 
Time Limits for the Tendering Process 
 
1.  All time limits established by the entities for the receipt of tenders and 
requests to participate shall be adequate to allow suppliers of another Party, as well 
as domestic suppliers, to prepare and to submit tenders, and where appropriate, 
requests for participation or applications for qualifying. In determining any such 
58 time limit, entities shall, consistent with their own reasonable needs, take into 
account such factors as the complexity of the intended procurement, extent of 
subcontracting  anticipated  and  the  normal  time  for  transmitting  tenders  from 
foreign as well as domestic points.  
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  entities  shall  take  due  account  of 
publication delays when setting the final date for receipt of tenders or of requests 
for participation or for qualifying for the suppliers’ list. 
 
3.  The minimum time limits for the receipt of tenders is not less than thirty 
(30) days and the actual time limit of each Party may be stated in Annex 8C. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.16 
Tender Documentation 
 
1.   An entity shall provide interested suppliers with tender documentation that 
includes all the information necessary to permit suppliers to prepare and submit 
responsive tenders. The documentation shall include the criteria that the entity will 
consider in awarding the contract, including all cost factors, and the weights or, 
where appropriate, the relative values that the entity will assign to these criteria in 
evaluating tenders. 
 
2.   To the extent possible and subject to any applicable fees, an entity should 
make relevant tender documentation publicly available through electronic means 
or  a  computer-based  telecommunications  network  openly  accessible  to  all 
suppliers.  Where  an  entity  does  not  publish  all  the  tender  documentation  by 
electronic means, the entity shall, on request of any supplier and subject to any 
applicable fees, promptly make the documentation available in written form to the 
supplier. 
 
3.   Where an entity, during the course of a procurement, modifies any part of 
the tender documentation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall: 
 
(a)  publish all such modifications electronically; or 
 
(b)  transmit all such modifications in writing to all suppliers that are 
participating  in  the  procurement  at  the  time  the  criteria  were 
modified,  and  in  all  cases,  allow  adequate  time  to  suppliers  to 
submit  fresh  tenders,  or  modify  and  re-submit  their  tenders  as 
appropriate. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.17 
Technical Specifications 
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that its entities shall not prepare, adopt or apply any 
technical specifications with a view to, or with the effect of, creating unnecessary 
59 obstacles to trade between the Parties. 
 
2.   Technical  specifications  prescribed  by  a  procuring  entity  shall,  where 
appropriate: 
 
(a)  be in terms of performance requirements rather than design or 
descriptive characteristics; and 
 
(b)  be based on international standards, where applicable; otherwise, 
on national technical regulations, recognised national standards 
or building codes. 
 
3.   There shall be no requirement or reference to a particular trademark or 
trade name, patent, design or type, specific origin or producer or supplier unless 
there is no sufficiently precise or intelligible way of otherwise describing the 
procurement requirements and provided that, in such cases, words such as “or 
equivalent” are included in the tender documentation. 
 
4.   Entities shall not seek or accept, in a manner that would have the effect of 
precluding competition, advice that may be used in the preparation or adoption of 
any technical specification for a specific procurement from a person that may have 
a commercial interest in that procurement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.18 
Registration and Qualification of Suppliers 
 
1.  In the process of registering and/or qualifying suppliers, the entities of a 
Party shall not discriminate between domestic suppliers and suppliers of another 
Party.  
  
2.  Any condition for participation in open tendering procedures shall be no 
less favourable to suppliers of another Party than to domestic suppliers. 
 
3.  The process of, and the time required for, registering and/or qualifying 
suppliers shall not be used in order to keep suppliers of another Party off a list of 
suppliers or from being considered for a particular procurement. 
 
4.  Entities maintaining permanent lists of registered and/or qualified suppliers 
shall ensure that suppliers may apply for registration or qualification at any time, 
and that all registered and qualified suppliers are included in the lists within a 
reasonable time.  
 
5.  Nothing in this Article shall preclude an entity from excluding a supplier 
from a procurement on grounds such as bankruptcy or false declaration, provided 
that such an action is consistent with Article 6.4. 
 
 
60 ARTICLE 6.19 
Evaluation of Contracts 
 
The tender evaluation process shall be fair and non-discriminatory to avoid any 
potential  conflict  of  interest  between  persons  administering  the  process  and 
suppliers participating in the process. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.20 
Information on Awards 
 
1.   Subject  to Article  6.26,  an  entity  shall  promptly  publish  a  notice  on 
contract award decision in the appropriate publications listed in Annex 8B. The 
award notice should include at least the following information: 
 
(a)  the name of the entity; 
 
(b)  a description of the goods or services procured; 
 
(c)  the name of the winning supplier; and 
 
(d)  the value of the contract award.  
 
2.  Entities shall, on request from an unsuccessful supplier of another Party 
which participated in the relevant tender, promptly provide pertinent information 
concerning  reasons  for  the  rejection  of  its  tender,  unless  the  release  of  such 
information would impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public 
interest  or  would  prejudice  the  legitimate  commercial  interest  of  particular 
enterprises,  public  or  private,  or  might  prejudice  fair  competition  between 
suppliers. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.21 
Modifications and Rectifications to Coverage 
 
1.  A Party shall notify the Parties of any proposed rectification, transfer of an 
entity from one Appendix to another, in Annex 8A, withdrawal of an entity, or 
other  modification  (hereinafter  referred  to  generally  in  this  Article  as 
"modification") of Annex 8A.  The Party proposing the modification ("modifying 
Party") shall state in the notification: 
 
(a)  the evidence on whether government control or influence over the 
covered procurements of the entity to be withdrawn has been 
effectively eliminated; and 
 
(b)  for any other proposed modification, information as to the likely 
consequences of the change for the mutually agreed coverage 
provided in this Agreement. 
61  
2.  A  Party  may  withdraw  or  replace  a  covered  entity  by  making  the 
appropriate  compensatory  adjustment  to  its  coverage  to  maintain  a  level  of 
coverage comparable to that existing prior to the modification. No compensatory 
adjustment shall be provided to an affected Party in respect of the following 
modifications made by a Party to its coverage under this Chapter: 
 
(a)  rectifications of a purely formal nature and minor amendments to 
the Appendices; and 
 
(b)   where Government control or influence over the entity’s covered 
procurements  has  been  effectively  eliminated  upon  its 
corporatisation or privatisation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.22 
Electronic Procurement 
 
1.  The Parties shall endeavour, within the context of their commitment to 
promote electronic commerce, to seek to provide opportunities for e-procurement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to work toward a single entry point for the 
purpose of enabling suppliers to access information on procurement opportunities 
in its territory. 
 
3.  Each Party shall, to the extent possible, make procurement opportunities 
that are available to the public accessible to suppliers via publically available 
electronic  mediums  or  means.  To  the  extent  possible,  each  Party  shall  make 
available relevant documentation by the same medium or means. 
 
4.  For each case of intended procurement, the procuring entity shall publish a 
summary  notice  in  English.  The  notice  shall  contain  at  least  the  following 
information: 
 
(a)  the subject matter of the contract; 
 
(b)  the time-limits set for the submission of tenders or an application 
to be invited to tender; and 
 
(c)  the addresses and contact from which documents relating to the 
contracts may be requested. 
 
5.   Each Party shall encourage its entities to publish, as early as possible in the 
fiscal year, information regarding the entity’s indicative procurement plans in the 
e-procurement portal. 
 
 
 
62 ARTICLE 6.23 
Challenge Procedures 
 
1.  In the event of a complaint by a supplier of a Party that there has been a 
breach of this Chapter in the context of procurement by another Party, that Party 
shall encourage the supplier to seek resolution of its complaint in consultation with 
the procuring entity of that other Party. In such instances the procuring entity of 
that  other  Party  shall  accord  timely  and  impartial  consideration  to  any  such 
complaint,  in  such  a  manner  that  is  not  prejudicial  to  obtaining  corrective 
measures under the challenge system. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide suppliers of the Parties with non-discriminatory, 
timely, transparent and effective procedures to challenge alleged breaches of this 
Chapter arising in the context of procurements in which they have an interest. 
 
3.  Each Party shall establish or designate at least one impartial administrative 
or judicial authority that is independent of its procuring entities to receive and 
review a challenge by a supplier arising in the context of a covered procurement. 
 
4.  Unless the tender document specifies otherwise, a Party’s total liability for 
any breach of this Chapter or compensation for loss or damages suffered shall be 
limited to the costs for tender preparation reasonably incurred by the supplier for 
the purpose of the procurement. 
 
5.  The  issues  arising  under  paragraphs  1  to  4  of  this  Article  are  to  be 
determined by each Party according to its domestic laws and regulations.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6.24 
Exceptions 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any Party from taking 
any action or not disclosing any information which it considers necessary for the 
protection of its essential security interests relating to the procurement of arms, 
ammunition  or  war  materials,  or  to  procurement  indispensable  for  national 
security or for national defence purposes. 
 
2.  Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner 
which  would  constitute  a  means  of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination 
between the Parties where the same conditions prevail or a disguised restriction on 
international trade, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any Party 
from imposing or enforcing measures:  
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals, order or safety;  
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to protect intellectual property; or  
63  
(d)  relating to the products or services of handicapped persons, of 
philanthropic institutions or of prison labour. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.25 
Progressive Liberalisation 
 
In line with the goal of further market liberalisation, the Parties shall, at meetings 
of the Joint Committee, review their commitments under this Chapter with the 
view to progressively improving them, taking into account their current respective 
levels of commitments. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.26 
Non-disclosure of Information 
 
1.   The Parties, their covered entities, and their review authorities shall not 
disclose  confidential  information  the  disclosure  of  which  would  prejudice 
legitimate  commercial  interests  of  a  particular  person  or  might  prejudice  fair 
competition between suppliers, without the formal authorization of the person that 
provided the information to the Party. 
 
2.   Nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  be  construed  as  requiring  a  Party  or  its 
covered entities to disclose confidential information the disclosure of which would 
impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public interest. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.27 
Language 
 
To improve market access to each others procurement markets, each Party shall 
where  possible,  use  English  in  its  publication  of  materials  or  information 
pertaining to procurement, including in the publications listed in Annex 8B and in 
the context of any electronic procurement pursuant to Article 6.22. 
  
 
64 