 
 
 
57 
CHAPTER 6 : TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE  
 
ARTICLE 6.1 : SCOPE 
 
This Chapter applies to technical regulations, standards, and conformity assessment procedures 
as defined in the WTO TBT Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 6.2 : ENHANCED COOPERATION AND CHAPTER 6 COORDINATOR 
 
1. With a view to facilitating trade in goods between them, the Parties should to the 
maximum extent possible seek to enhance their cooperation with each other in the area of 
technical regulations, standards, and conformity assessment procedures and to deepen the mutual 
understanding and awareness of each other's systems, including through:   
 
(a)   exchanging information on technical regulations, standards and conformity 
assessment procedures;  
 
(b)   holding consultations to address and resolve any matters that may arise from the 
application of specific technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment 
procedures;   
 
(c)   promoting the use of international standards by each Party in its technical 
regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures; and   
 
(d)   facilitating and promoting mechanisms relating to technical regulations, standards 
and conformity assessment procedures that would enhance and promote trade 
between the Parties, including mechanisms established at APEC and other 
plurilateral fora.   
   
2.   In order to facilitate the cooperation described in paragraph 1, each Party shall designate 
a Chapter 6 Coordinator, which shall:   
 
(a)   be responsible for coordinating with interested parties in the Party’s territory in all 
matters pertaining to enhanced cooperation under this Chapter, including with 
respect to proposals for enhanced cooperation and responses to such proposals; 
and   
 
(b)   normally carry out its functions through agreed communication channels and meet 
with the other Party’s Chapter 6 Coordinator as and when they agree is necessary 
for the efficient and effective discharge of their functions.  
 
ARTICLE 6.3 : CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT AND OTHER AREAS OF MUTUAL INTEREST 
   
1.   Each Party shall take steps to implement Phase I and Phase II of the APEC Mutual 
Recognition Arrangement for Conformity Assessment of Telecommunications Equipment with 
respect to the other Party.       
   
   
 
58 
2.   The Parties should to the maximum extent possible also work towards enhancing the 
momentum of cooperation in line with their respective bilateral, regional and plurilateral 
agreements, including the APEC work program on Standards and Conformance.  To achieve this 
objective the Parties should to the maximum extent possible examine the feasibility of 
cooperating with each other on conformity assessment procedures and other areas of mutual 
interest, including agreements where the relevant authorities from both Parties are willing to do 
so.  
   
3.   Each Party should to the maximum extent possible consider progress made on achieving 
the objectives of this Chapter during meetings of the Joint Committee established under Article 
20.1 (Joint Committee).  
   
4.   The Parties establish the Medical Products Working Group referred to in Article 
20.1.2(b) (Joint Committee), as set out in Annex 6A to this Chapter.  
 
ARTICLE 6.4 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
   
1.   WTO TBT Agreement means the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade; and  
   
2.   APEC means the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum.  