   
   
   
 
210 
CHAPTER 17 : LABOR  
 
ARTICLE 17.1 :  STATEMENT OF SHARED COMMITMENT 
   
1.   The Parties reaffirm their obligations as members of the International Labor Organization 
(AILO”) and their commitments under the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work and its Follow-up.   Each Party shall strive to ensure that such labor principles and the 
17-1
internationally recognized labor rights set forth in Article 17.7 are recognized and protected by 
domestic law.  
 
2.       Recognizing the right of each Party to establish its own domestic labor standards, and to 
adopt or modify accordingly its labor laws and regulations, each Party shall strive to ensure that 
its laws provide for labor standards consistent with the internationally recognized labor rights set 
forth in Article 17.7 and shall strive to improve those standards in that light. 
 
ARTICLE 17.2 :  APPLICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF LABOR LAWS 
   
1.   (a)   A Party shall not fail to effectively enforce its labor laws, through a sustained or 
recurring course of action or inaction, in a manner affecting trade between the 
Parties, after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
(b)    The Parties recognize that each Party retains the right to exercise discretion with 
respect to investigatory, prosecutorial, regulatory, and compliance matters and to 
make decisions regarding the allocation of resources to enforcement with respect 
to other labor matters determined to have higher priorities.  Accordingly, the 
Parties understand that a Party is in compliance with subparagraph (a) where a 
course of action or inaction reflects a reasonable exercise of such discretion, or 
results from a bona fide decision regarding the allocation of resources.  
 
2.      The Parties recognize that it is inappropriate to encourage trade or investment by 
weakening or reducing the protections afforded in domestic labor laws.  Accordingly, each Party 
shall strive to ensure that it does not waive or otherwise derogate from, or offer to waive or 
otherwise derogate from, such laws in a manner that weakens or reduces adherence to the 
internationally recognized labor rights referred to in Article 17.7 as an encouragement for trade 
with the other Party, or as an encouragement for the establishment, acquisition, expansion, or 
retention of an investment in its territory.   
 
ARTICLE 17.3 : PROCEDURAL GUARANTEES AND PUBLIC AWARENESS 
   
1.   Each Party shall ensure that persons with a legally recognized interest under its law in a 
particular matter have appropriate access to administrative, quasi-judicial, judicial, or labor 
tribunals for the enforcement of the Party’s labor laws.  
 
 
 The Parties recall that paragraph 5 of this ILO Declaration states that labor standards should 
17-1 
not be used for protectionist trade purposes.       
     
     
   
211 
2.   Each Party shall ensure that its  administrative, quasi-judicial, judicial, or 
labor tribunal proceedings for the enforcement of its labor laws are fair, equitable and 
transparent.  
   
3.   Each Party shall provide that the parties to such proceedings may seek remedies to ensure 
the enforcement of rights under domestic labor laws.  
   
4.   Each Party shall promote public awareness of its labor laws.  
 
ARTICLE 17.4 : INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 
   
1.   The functions of the Joint Committee established under Chapter 20 (Administration and 
Dispute Settlement) shall include discussion of matters related to the operation of this Chapter, 
including the Labor Cooperation Mechanism established under Article 17.5, and the pursuit of 
the labor objectives of this Agreement.  The Joint Committee may establish a Subcommittee on 
Labor Affairs consisting of officials of the labor ministry and other appropriate agencies or 
ministries of each Party to meet at such times as they deem appropriate to discuss matters related 
to the implementation of this Chapter.  Each meeting of the Subcommittee shall include a public 
session, unless the Parties agree otherwise.  
   
2.   Each Party shall designate an office within its labor ministry that shall serve as a contact 
point with the other Party, and with the public, for purposes of implementing this Chapter.  
   
3.   Each Party may convene a national labor advisory committee, comprising members of its 
public, including representatives of its labor and business organizations and other persons, to 
advise it on the implementation of this Chapter.  
   
4.   Each formal decision of the Parties concerning implementation of this Chapter shall be 
made public, unless the Parties decide otherwise.  
   
5.   Each Party’s contact point designated under paragraph 2 shall provide for the submission, 
receipt, and consideration of public communications on matters related to provisions of this 
Chapter, and shall make such communications available to the other Party and, as appropriate, to 
the public.  Each Party shall review such communications, as appropriate, in accordance with 
domestic procedures.  The Parties, when they consider it appropriate, shall jointly prepare reports 
on matters related to the implementation of this Chapter, and shall make such reports public. 
 
ARTICLE 17.5 :  LABOR COOPERATION 
 
Recognizing that cooperation provides enhanced opportunities to promote respect for core labor 
standards embodied in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and 
its Follow-Up and compliance with ILO Convention 182 Concerning the Prohibition and 
Immediate Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labor, and to further advance 
other common commitments, the Parties establish a Labor Cooperation Mechanism, as set out in 
Annex 17A to this Chapter.     
   
   
 
212 
ARTICLE 17.6 :  LABOR CONSULTATIONS 
   
1.   A Party may request consultations with the other Party regarding any matter arising under 
this Chapter.  Unless the Parties agree otherwise, consultations shall commence within 30 days 
of a Party’s delivery of a request for consultations to the other Party’s contact point designated 
pursuant to Article 17.4.2.  
   
2.   The Parties shall make every attempt to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of the 
matter and may seek advice or assistance from any person or body they deem appropriate.   
   
3.   If the consultations fail to resolve the matter, either Party may request that the 
Subcommittee on Labor Affairs be convened.  The Subcommittee shall convene within 30 days 
of a Party’s delivery of a request to convene the Subcommittee to the other Party’s contact point 
designated pursuant to Article 17.4.2,  unless the Parties otherwise agree.  The Subcommittee 
17-2
shall endeavor to resolve the matter expeditiously, including, where appropriate, by consulting 
governmental or outside experts and having recourse to such procedures as good offices, 
conciliation, or mediation.  
   
4.   If a Party considers that the other Party has failed to carry out its obligations under 
Article 17.2.1(a), the Party may request consultations pursuant to Article 20.4.2(a) (Additional 
Dispute Settlement Procedures) or under paragraph 1 of this Article.  
 
(a)    If a Party requests consultations pursuant to Article 20.4.2(a) at a time when the 
Parties are engaged in consultations on the same matter under paragraph 1 of this 
Article or the Subcommittee is endeavoring to resolve the matter under paragraph 
3, the Parties shall discontinue their efforts to resolve the matter under this 
Article.  Once consultations have begun under Article 20.4.2(a), no consultations 
on the same matter may be entered into under this Article.  
 
(b)    If a Party requests consultations pursuant to Article 20.4.2(a) more than 60 days 
after the commencement of consultations under paragraph 1, the Parties may 
agree at any time to refer the matter to the Joint Committee pursuant to Article 
20.4.2(a).  
   
5.   Articles 20.3 (Consultations) and 20.4 (Additional Dispute Settlement Procedures) shall 
not apply to a matter arising under any provision of this Chapter other than Article 17.2.1(a).  
 
ARTICLE 17.7 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter:  
   
1.   labor laws means a Party’s statutes or regulations, or provisions thereof, that are directly 
related to the following internationally recognized labor rights:  
 
  If, on the date a Party delivers a request, the Parties have not established the Subcommittee, 
17-2
they shall do so during the 30-day period described in this paragraph.     
   
   
 
213 
(a)   the right of association;  
   
  (b)   the right to organize and bargain collectively;  
 
 
 
(c)   a prohibition on the use of any form of forced or compulsory labor;  
 
   
  (d)   labor protections for children and young people, including a minimum age for the 
  employment of children and the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of 
 
child labor; and  
 
   
  (e)   acceptable conditions of work with respect to minimum wages, hours of work, 
  and occupational safety and health; and  
 
 
2.   (a)   for Singapore, minimum wages means wage guidelines issued by the National 
Wages Council (“NWC”) and gazetted under the Employment Act; and  
 
(b)   for the United States, statutes or regulations means acts of the U.S. Congress or 
regulations promulgated pursuant to an act of the U.S. Congress that are 
enforceable, in the first instance, by action of the federal government.  