 
 
 
7 
 
CHAPTER 2 : NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS  
 
ARTICLE 2.1 : NATIONAL TREATMENT 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in accordance with 
Article III of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes.  To this end, Article III of GATT 
1994 and its interpretative notes are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement, subject 
to Annex 2A.  
 
ARTICLE 2.2 : ELIMINATION OF DUTIES 
   
1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party shall progressively eliminate 
its customs duties on originating goods of the other Party in accordance with Annexes 2B (U.S. 
Schedule) and 2C (Singapore Schedule).   
   
2.   A Party shall not increase an existing customs duty or introduce a new customs duty on 
imports of an originating good, other than as permitted by this Agreement, subject to Annex 2A. 
   
3.   Upon request by any Party, the Parties shall consult to consider accelerating the 
elimination of customs duties as set out in their respective schedules.  An agreement by the 
Parties to accelerate the elimination of customs duties on an originating good shall be treated as 
an amendment to Annexes 2B and 2C, and shall enter into force after the Parties have exchanged 
written notification certifying that they have completed necessary internal legal procedures and 
on such date or dates as may be agreed between them.  
 
ARTICLE 2.3 : CUSTOMS VALUE 
 
Each Party shall apply the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement for the purposes of 
determining the customs value of goods traded between the Parties.  
 
ARTICLE 2.4 : EXPORT TAX 
 
A Party shall not adopt or maintain any duty, tax or other charge on the export of any good to the 
territory of the other Party. 
 
ARTICLE 2.5 : TEMPORARY ADMISSION 
   
1.   Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for the following goods, imported 
by or for the use of a resident of the other Party:  
 
(a)   professional equipment, including software and broadcasting and cinematographic 
equipment, necessary for carrying out the business activity, trade, or profession of 
a business person who qualifies for temporary entry pursuant to the laws of the 
importing country; and     
   
   
 
8 
 
   
  (b)   goods intended for display or demonstration at exhibitions, fairs, or similar 
 
events, including commercial samples for the solicitation of orders, and 
 
  advertising films.  
   
2.   A Party shall not condition the duty-free temporary admission of a good referred to in 
paragraph 1, other than to require that such good:  
 
(a)   be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a resident of the other Party 
in the exercise of the business activity, trade, or profession of that person;  
 
(b)   not be sold or leased or consumed while in its territory;  
 
(c)   be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the charges that would 
otherwise be owed on entry or final importation, releasable on exportation of the 
good;  
 
(d)   be capable of identification when exported;  
 
(e)   be exported on the departure of that person or within such other period of time as 
is reasonably related to the purpose of the temporary admission, to a maximum 
period of three years from the date of importation;  
 
(f)   be imported in no greater quantity than is reasonable for its intended use; and  
 
(g)   be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws. 
   
3.   If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 2 has not been fulfilled, the Party 
may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would normally be owed on entry or final 
importation of the good.   
   
4.   Each Party, through its Customs authorities, shall adopt procedures providing for the 
expeditious release of the goods described in paragraph 1.  To the extent possible, when such 
goods accompany a resident of the other Party seeking temporary entry, and are imported by that 
person for use in the exercise of a business activity, trade, or profession of that person, the 
procedures shall allow for the goods to be released simultaneously with the entry of that person 
subject to the necessary documentation required by the Customs authorities of the importing 
Party.  
   
5.   Each Party shall, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons deemed valid by 
its Customs authorities, extend the time limit for temporary admission beyond the period initially 
fixed.  
   
6.   Each Party shall permit temporarily admitted goods to be exported through a customs 
port other than that through which they were imported.     
   
   
 
9 
 
   
7.   Each Party shall relieve the importer of liability for failure to export a temporarily 
admitted good upon presentation of satisfactory proof to the Party’s Customs authorities that the 
good has been destroyed within the original time limit for temporary admission or any lawful 
extension.  Prior approval will have to be sought from the Customs authorities of the importing 
Party before the good can be so destroyed.  
 
ARTICLE 2.6 : GOODS RE-ENTERED AFTER REPAIR OR ALTERATION 
   
1.   A Party shall not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, that re-enters its 
territory after that good has been exported temporarily from its territory to the territory of the 
other Party for repair or alteration, regardless of whether such repair or alteration could be 
performed in its territory.  
   
2.   A Party shall not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, imported 
temporarily from the territory of the other Party for repair or alteration.   
   
3.   For purposes of this Article:  
 
(a)   the repairs or alterations shall not destroy the essential characteristics of the good, 
or change it into a different commercial item;  
 
(b)   operations carried out to transform unfinished goods into finished goods shall not 
be considered repairs or alterations; and  
 
(c)   parts or pieces of the goods may be subject to repairs or alterations.  
 
ARTICLE 2.7 : IMPORT AND EXPORT RESTRICTIONS 
   
1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Party shall not adopt or maintain any 
prohibition or restriction on the importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation 
or sale for export of any good destined for the territory of the other Party, except in accordance 
with Article XI of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, and to this end Article XI of 
GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, is incorporated into and made a part of this 
Agreement. 
   
2.   The Parties understand that the GATT 1994 rights and obligations incorporated by 
paragraph 1 prohibit, in any circumstances in which any other form of restriction is prohibited, 
export price requirements and, except as permitted in enforcement of countervailing and 
antidumping orders and undertakings, import price requirements.     
   
   
 
10 
 
   
3.   In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on the 
importation from or exportation to a non-Party of a good, nothing in this Agreement shall be 
construed to prevent the Party from:  
 
(a)   limiting or prohibiting the importation from the territory of the other Party of such 
good of that non-Party; or  
 
(b)   requiring as a condition of export of such good of the Party to the territory of the 
other Party, that the good not be re-exported to the non-Party, directly or 
indirectly, without being consumed in the territory of the other Party.  
   
4.   Paragraphs 1 through 3 shall not apply to the measures set out in Annex 2A.  
   
5.   Nothing in this Article shall be construed to affect a Party’s rights and obligations under 
the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing.  
 
ARTICLE 2.8 : MERCHANDISE PROCESSING FEE 
 
A Party shall not adopt or maintain a merchandise processing fee for originating goods.  
 
ARTICLE 2.9 : DISTILLED SPIRITS 
 
Singapore shall harmonize its excise taxes on imported and domestic distilled spirits.  Such 
harmonization of the aforesaid excise duties shall be carried out in stages and shall be completed 
by 2005.  
 
ARTICLE 2.10 : BROADCASTING APPARATUS 
 
A Party shall not maintain any import ban on broadcasting apparatus, including satellite dishes.  
 
ARTICLE 2.11 : CHEWING GUM 
 
Singapore shall allow the importation of chewing gum with therapeutic value for sale and 
supply, and may subject such products to laws and regulations relating to health products.   
 
ARTICLE 2.12 : TARIFF TREATMENT OF NON-ORIGINATING COTTON AND MAN-MADE FIBER 
APPAREL GOODS (TARIFF PREFERENCE LEVELS)  
   
1.   Subject to paragraphs 3 and 4, the United States shall apply the applicable rate of duty 
under paragraph 2 to imports of cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods provided for in 
Chapters 61 and 62 of the Harmonized System and covered by the U.S. categories listed in 
Annex 2B that are both cut (or knit to shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in Singapore 
from fabric or yarn produced or obtained outside the territory of a Party, and that meet the 
applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement, other than the 
condition that they be originating goods.       
   
   
 
11 
 
   
2.   The rate of duty applicable to goods described in paragraph 1 is the United States most- 
favored-nation rate of duty reduced in five equal annual increments, beginning on the date this 
Article enters into force, such that the rate of duty shall be zero beginning on the first day of the 
fifth year after that date .  
   
3.   Paragraph 1 shall not apply to imports of goods described in that paragraph in quantities 
greater than:  
 
(a)   25,000,000 square meter equivalents (“SME”) in the first year following entry 
into force of this Article;  
 
(b)   21,875,000 SME in the second year following entry into force of this Article;  
 
(c)   18,750,000 SME in the third year following entry into force of this Article;  
 
(d)   15,625,000  SME in the fourth year following entry into force of this Article;  
 
(e)   12,500,000  SME in the fifth year following entry into force of this Article;  
 
(f)   9,375,000  SME in the sixth year following entry into force of this Article;  
 
(g)   6,250,000  SME in the seventh year following entry into force of this Article; and  
 
(h)   3,125,000  SME in the eighth year following entry into force of this Article.  
 
For purposes of this paragraph, quantities of textile and apparel goods shall be converted into 
SME according to the conversion factors set forth in Annex 2D.  
 
4.     This Article shall cease to apply beginning on the date that is nine years after entry into 
force of this Article.  
 
ARTICLE 2.13 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter, customs duty includes any customs or import duty and a charge of 
any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or 
surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:  
 
(a)   charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of 
GATT 1994 in respect of the like domestic good or in respect of goods from 
which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;  
 
(b)   antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party’s domestic 
law;  
 
(c)   fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of 
services rendered; or   
 
 
12 
 
(d)   duty imposed pursuant to Article 5 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture.  