   
   
   
 
156 
 
   
 
CHAPTER 15 : INVESTMENT  
 
   
  SECTION A – DEFINITIONS 
 
ARTICLE 15.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For purposes of this Chapter, it is understood that:   
   
1.   central level of government means:  
   
  (a)   for the United States, the federal level of government; and 
 
 
 
(b)   for Singapore, the national level of government;   
 
   
2.   Centre means the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”) 
established by the ICSID Convention;  
   
3.   claimant means an investor of a Party that is a party to an investment dispute with the 
other Party;  
   
4.   covered investment means, with respect to a Party, an investment in its territory of an 
investor of the other Party in existence as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement or 
established, acquired, or expanded thereafter;  
   
5.   disputing parties means the claimant and the respondent;  
   
6.   disputing party means either the claimant or the respondent;  
   
7.   enterprise means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or 
not for profit, and whether privately or governmentally owned or controlled, including a 
corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar 
organization; and a branch of an enterprise;  
   
8.   enterprise of a Party means an enterprise constituted or organized under the law of a 
Party, and a branch located in the territory of a Party and carrying out business activities there;  
   
9.   freely usable currency means “freely usable currency” as determined by the 
International Monetary Fund under its Articles of Agreement;  
 
10.   government enterprise means “government enterprise” as defined in Chapter 12 
(Anticompetitive Business Conduct, Designated Monopolies, and Government Enterprises); 
 
11.   ICSID Additional Facility Rules means the Rules Governing the Additional Facility for 
the Administration of Proceedings by the Secretariat of the International Centre for Settlement of 
Investment Disputes;   
 
 
157 
 
12.   ICSID Convention means the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes 
between States and Nationals of Other States, done at Washington, March 18, 1965;  
 
13.   investment means every asset owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by an investor, 
that has the characteristics of an investment.   Forms that an investment may take include:   
15-1
 
(a)   an enterprise;  
 
(b)   shares, stock, and other forms of equity participation in an enterprise;   
(c)   bonds, debentures, other debt instruments, and loans;
15-2 
 
(d)   futures, options, and other derivatives;  
 
(e)   turnkey, construction, management, production, concession, revenue-sharing, and 
other similar contracts;  
 
(f)   intellectual property rights;  
 
(g)   licenses, authorizations, permits, and similar rights conferred pursuant to 
applicable domestic law;  and  
15-3 15-4
 
 
 
 
  Where an asset lacks the characteristics of an investment, that asset is not an investment 
15-1
regardless of the form it may take.  The characteristics of an investment include the commitment 
of capital, the expectation of gain or profit, or the assumption of risk.  
  Some forms of debt, such as bonds, debentures, and long-term notes, are more likely to have 
15-2
the characteristics of an investment, while other forms of debt, such as claims to payment that are 
immediately due and result from the sale of goods or services, are less likely to have such 
characteristics.  
  Whether a particular type of license, authorization, permit, or similar instrume nt (including a 
15-3
concession, to the extent that it has the nature of such an instrument) has the characteristics of an 
investment depends on such factors as the nature and extent of the rights that the holder has 
under the domestic law of the Party.  Among the licenses, authorizations, permits, and similar 
instruments that do not have the characteristics of an investment are those that do not create any 
rights protected under domestic law.  For greater certainty, the foregoing is without prejudice to 
whether any asset associated with the license, authorization, permit, or similar instrument has the 
characteristics of an investment.  
  The term “investment” does not include an order or judgment entered in a judicial or 
15-4
administrative action.   
 
 
158 
 
(h)   other tangible or intangible, movable or immovable property, and related property 
rights, such as leases, mortgages, liens, and pledges.  
14.   investment agreement means a written agreement that takes effect on or after the date 
15-5 
of entry into force of this Agreement between a national authority  of a Party and a covered 
15-6
investment or an investor of the other Party (i) that grants rights with respect to natural resources 
or other assets that a national authority controls, and (ii) that the covered investment or the 
investor relies on in establishing or acquiring the covered investment;   
15.   investment authorization  means an authorization that the foreign investment 
15-7
authority of a Party grants to a covered investment or an investor of the other Party;  
 
16.   investor of a non-Party means, with respect to a Party, an investor that is seeking to 
make, is making, or has made an investment in the territory of that Party, that is not an investor 
of either Party;  
 
17.   investor of a Party means a Party or a national or an enterprise of a Party that is seeking 
to make, is making, or has made an investment in the territory of the other Party; provided, 
however, that a natural person who is a dual national shall be deemed to be exclusively a national 
of the State of his/her dominant and effective nationality;  
 
18.   monopoly means “mo nopoly” as defined in Chapter 12 (Anticompetitive Business 
Conduct, Designated Monopolies, and Government Enterprises);  
 
19.   New York Convention means the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and 
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at New York, June 10, 1958;  
 
20.   non-disputing Party means the Party that is not a party to an investment dispute;  
 
21.   protected information means confidential business information or information that is 
privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure under a Party’s law;  
 
 
 
 
 
  Actions taken by an agency of a Party to enforce laws of general application such as 
15-5
competition law do not come within this definition.  
  For purposes of this definition, “national authority” means (1) for Singapore, a ministry or 
15-6
other government body that is constituted by an Act of Parliament; and (2) for the United States, 
an authority at the central level of government.  
  Actions taken by an agency of a Party to enforce laws of general application such as 
15-7
competition law do not come within this definition.   
 
 
159 
 
22.   regional level of government means, for the United States, a state of the United States, 
the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.  For Singapore, “regional level of government” is not 
applicable, as Singapore has no government at the regional level; 
 
23.   respondent means the Party that is a party to an investment dispute;  
 
24.   Secretary-General means the Secretary-General of ICSID;  
 
25.   tribunal means an arbitration tribunal established under Article 15.18 or 15.24; and  
 
26.   UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules means the arbitration rules of the United Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law.  
 
SECTION B – INVESTMENT 
 
ARTICLE 15.2 : SCOPE AND COVERAGE 
 
This Chapter applies to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating to:  
 
(a)   investors of the other Party;  
 
(b)   covered investments; and   
 
(c)   with respect to Articles 15.8 and 15.10, all investments in the territory of the 
Party.  
 
ARTICLE 15.3 : RELATION TO OTHER CHAPTERS 
   
1.   In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another Chapter, the other 
Chapter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.  
   
2.   A requirement by a Party that a service provider of the other Party post a bond or other 
form of financial security as a condition of providing a service into its territory does not of itself 
make this Chapter applicable to the provision of that cross-border service.  This Chapter applies 
to that Party’s treatment of the posted bond or financial security. 
   
3.   This Chapter does not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party to the extent 
that they are covered by Chapter 10 (Financial Services).  
 
ARTICLE 15.4 : NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT 
   
1.   Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no less favorable than 
that it accords, in like circumstances, to its own investors with respect to the establishment, 
acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and sale or other disposition of 
investments in its territory.  Each Party shall accord to covered investments treatment no less  
 
 
160 
 
favorable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to investments in its territory of its own 
investors with respect to the establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, 
operation, and sale or other disposition of investments.  The treatment each Party shall accord 
under this paragraph is “national treatment.”  
   
2.   The treatment to be accorded by a Party under paragraph 1 means, with respect to a state, 
territory or possession, treatment no less favorable than the most favorable treatment accorded, 
in like circumstances, by that state, territory, or possession, to investors, and to investments of 
investors, of the Party of which it forms a part.  
   
3.   Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no less favorable than 
that it accords, in like circumstances, to investors of any non-Party with respect to the 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and sale or other 
disposition of investments in its territory.  Each Party shall accord to covered investments 
treatment no less favorable than that it accords, in like circumstances, to investments in its 
territory of investors of any non-Party with respect to the establishment, acquisition, expansion, 
management, conduct, operation, and sale or other disposition of investments.  The treatment 
each Party shall accord under this paragraph is “most-favored-nation treatment.”  
   
4.   Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party and to their covered investments 
the better of national treatment or most-favored-nation treatment.  
ARTICLE 15.5 : MINIMUM STANDARD OF TREATMENT15-8 
   
1.   Each Party shall accord to covered investments treatment in accordance with customary 
international law, including fair and equitable treatment and full protection and security.   
   
2.   For greater certainty, paragraph 1 prescribes the customary international law minimum 
standard of treatment of aliens as the minimum standard of treatment to be afforded to covered 
investments.  The concepts of "fair and equitable treatment" and "full protection and security" do 
not require treatment in addition to or beyond that which is required by that standard, and do not 
create additional substantive rights.   
 
(a)   The obligation in paragraph 1 to provide "fair and equitable treatment" includes 
the obligation not to deny justice in criminal, civil, or administrative adjudicatory 
proceedings in accordance with the principle of due process embodied in the 
principal legal systems of the world; and  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Article 15.5 is to be interpreted in accordance with the letter exchange on customary 
15-8
international law.     
   
   
 
161 
 
   
 
(b)   The obligation in paragraph 1 to provide “full protection and security” requires 
 
  each Party to provide the level of police protection required under customary 
  international law.  
 
 
3.   A determination that there has been a breach of another provision of this Agreement, or 
of a separate international agreement, does not establish that there has been a breach of this 
Article.  
   
4.   Without prejudice to paragraph 1 and notwithstanding Article 15.12.5(b), each Party shall 
accord to investors of the other Party, and to covered investments, non-discriminatory treatment 
with respect to measures it adopts or maintains relating to losses suffered by investments in its 
territory owing to armed conflict or civil strife.  
   
5.   Paragraph 4 does not apply to existing measures relating to subsidies or grants that would 
be inconsistent with Article 15.4.1 and 15.4.2 but for Article 15.12.5(b).  
ARTICLE 15.6 : EXPROPRIATION15-9 
   
1.   Neither Party may expropriate or nationalize a covered investment either directly or 
indirectly through measures equivalent to expropriation or nationalization (“expropriation”), 
except:  
 
(a)   for a public purpose;  
 
(b)   in a non-discriminatory manner;  
 
(c)   on payment of prompt, adequate, and effective compensation in accordance with 
paragraphs 2, 3, and 4; and  
 
(d)   in accordance with due process of law and Article 15.5.1, 15.5.2, and 15.5.3.  
   
2.   Compensation shall:  
 
(a)   be paid without delay;   
 
(b)   be equivalent to the fair market value of the expropriated investment immediately 
before the expropriatory action was taken (“the date of expropriation”);   
 
(c)   be fully realizable and freely transferable; and   
 
 
 
  Article 15.6 is to be interpreted in accordance with the letter exchange on customary 
15-9
international law and the letter exchange on expropriation, and is subject to the letter exchange 
on land expropriation.     
   
   
 
162 
 
   
 
(d)   not reflect any change in value occurring because the expropriatory action had 
 
  become known before the date of expropriation.  
   
3.   If the fair market value is denominated in a freely usable currency, the compensation paid 
shall be no less than the fair market value on the date of expropriation, plus interest at a 
commercially reasonable rate for that currency, accrued from the date of expropriation until the 
date of payment.  
   
4.   If the fair market value is denominated in a currency that is not freely usable, the 
compensation paid – converted into the currency of payment at the market rate of exchange 
prevailing on the date of payment – shall be no less than:  
 
(a)   the fair market value on the date of expropriation, converted into a freely usable 
currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing on that date, plus  
 
(b)   interest, at a commercially reasonable rate for that freely usable currency, accrued 
from the date of expropriation until the date of payment.  
   
5.   This Article does not apply to the issuance of compulsory licenses granted in relation to 
intellectual property rights in accordance with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of 
Intellectual Property Rights (“TRIPS Agreement”), or to the revocation, limitation, or creation of 
intellectual property rights, to the extent that such issuance, revocation, limitation, or creation is 
consistent with Chapter 16 (Intellectual Property Rights) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 15.7 : TRANSFERS15-10 
   
1.   Each Party shall permit all transfers relating to a covered investment to be made freely 
and without delay into and out of its territory.  Such transfers include:   
 
(a)   contributions to capital;   
 
(b)   profits, dividends, capital gains, and proceeds from the sale of all or any part of 
the covered investment or from the partial or complete liquidation of the covered 
investment;   
 
(c)   interest, royalty payments, management fees, and technical assistance and other 
fees;   
 
(d)   payments made under a contract entered into by the investor, or the covered 
investment, including payments made pursuant to a loan agreement;   
 
(e)   payments made pursuant to Article 15.6 and Article 15.5.4; and  
 
  Article 15.7 is subject to Annex 15A.  
15-10   
   
   
 
163 
 
   
 
(f)   payments arising under Section C.  
 
 
2.   Each Party shall permit transfers relating to a covered investment to be made in a freely 
usable currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer.  
   
3.   Each Party shall permit returns in kind relating to a covered investment to be made as 
authorized or specified in an investment authorization or other written agreement between the 
Party and a covered investment or an investor of the other Party.  
   
4.   Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, a Party may prevent a transfer through the 
equitable, non-discriminatory, and good faith application of its law relating to:  
 
(a)   bankruptcy, insolvency, or the protection of the rights of creditors;  
 
(b)   issuing, trading, or dealing in securities, futures, options, or derivatives;  
 
(c)   financial reporting or record keeping of transfers when necessary to assist law 
enforcement or financial regulatory authorities;  
 
(d)   criminal or penal offenses; or   
 
(e)   ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in judicial or administrative 
proceedings.   
ARTICLE 15.8 : PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS15-11 
   
1.   Neither Party may impose or enforce any of the following requirements, or enforce any 
commitment or undertaking, in connection with the establishment, acquisition, expansion, 
management, conduct, operation, or sale or other disposition of an investment of an investor of a 
Party or of a non-Party in its territory:  
 
(a)   to export a given level or percentage of goods or services;  
 
(b)   to achieve a given level or percentage of domestic content;  
 
(c)   to purchase, use, or accord a preference to goods produced in its territory, or to 
purchase goods from persons in its territory;  
 
(d)   to relate in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume or value of 
exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows associated with such 
investment;  
 
 
 
  Article 15.8 is subject to Annex 15B and Annex 15C.  
15-11   
   
   
 
164 
 
   
 
(e)   to restrict sales of goods or services in its territory that such investment produces  
 
  or supplies by relating such sales in any way to the volume or value of its exports 
  or foreign exchange earnings;  
 
 
 
(f)   to transfer a particular technology, production process, or other proprietary 
 
  knowledge to a person in its territory; or  
   
  (g)   to supply exclusively from the territory of the Party the goods that it produces or 
 
the services that it supplies to a specific regional market or to the world market.  
 
 
2.   Neither Party may condition the receipt or continued receipt of an advantage, in 
connection with the establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, or 
sale or other disposition of an investment in its territory of an investor of a Party or of a non- 
Party, on compliance with any of the following requirements:  
 
(a)   to achieve a given level or percentage of domestic content;  
 
(b)   to purchase, use, or accord a preference to goods produced in its territory, or to 
purchase goods from persons in its territory;  
 
(c)   to relate in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume or value of 
exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows associated with such 
investment; or   
 
(d)   to restrict sales of goods or services in its territory that such investment produces 
or supplies by relating such sales in any way to the volume or value of its exports 
or foreign exchange earnings.   
   
3.  (a)   Nothing in paragraph 2 shall be construed to prevent a Party from conditioning 
the receipt or continued receipt of an advantage, in connection with an investment 
in its territory of an investor of a Party or of a non-Party, on compliance with a 
requirement to locate production, supply a service, train or employ workers, 
construct or expand particular facilities, or carry out research and development, in 
its territory.   
 
(b)   Paragraph 1(f) does not apply:  
 
(i)   when a Party authorizes use of an intellectual property right in accordance 
with Article 16.7.6 (Patents), and to measures requiring the disclosure of 
proprietary information that fall within the scope of, and are consistent 
with, Article 39 of the TRIPS Agreement; or  
 
(ii)    when the requirement is imposed or the commitment or undertaking is 
enforced by a court, administrative tribunal, or competition authority to  
 
 
165 
 
remedy a practice determined after judicial or administrative process to be 
anticompetitive under the Party’s competition laws.  
 
(c)   Paragraphs 1(b), (c), and (f), and 2(a) and (b), shall not be construed to prevent a 
Party from adopting or maintaining measures, including environmental measures:  
   
(i)   necessary to secure compliance with laws and regulations that are not 
inconsistent with this Agreement;  
   
  (ii)   necessary to protect human, animal, or plant life or health; or  
 
 
 
(iii)   related to the conservation of living or non-living exhaustible natural 
 
  resources;  
   
  provided that such measures are not applied in an arbitrary or unjustifiable 
 
manner, and provided that such measures do not constitute a disguised restriction 
 
  on investment or international trade.  
   
  (d)   Paragraphs 1(a), (b), and (c), and 2(a) and (b), do not apply to qualification 
 
requirements for goods or services with respect to export promotion and foreign 
 
  aid programs.  
   
  (e)   Paragraphs 1(b), (c), (f), and (g), and 2(a) and (b), do not apply to government 
 
procurement.  
 
   
  (f)   Paragraphs 2(a) and (b) do not apply to requirements imposed by an importing 
 
Party relating to the content of goods necessary to qualify for preferential tariffs 
 
or preferential quotas.  
 
   
4.   For greater certainty, paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply to any requirement other than the 
requirements set out in those paragraphs. 
 
ARTICLE 15.9 : SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND BOARDS OF DIRECTORS 
   
1.   Neither Party may require that an enterprise of that Party that is a covered investment 
appoint to senior management positions individuals of any particular nationality.  
   
2.   A Party may require that a majority of the board of directors, or any committee thereof, 
of an enterprise of that Party that is a covered investment, be of a particular nationality, or 
resident in the territory of the Party, provided that the requirement does not materially impair the 
ability of the investor of the other Party to exercise control over its investment.   
 
 
166 
 
ARTICLE 15.10 : INVESTMENT AND ENVIRONMENT 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting, maintaining, or 
enforcing any measure otherwise consistent with this Chapter that it considers appropriate to 
ensure that investment activity in its territory is undertaken in a manner sensitive to 
environmental concerns.    
 
ARTICLE 15.11 : DENIAL OF BENEFITS 
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor of the other Party that is an 
enterprise of such other Party and to investments of that investor if:  
 
(a)   investors of a non-Party own or control the enterprise and the denying Party:  
   
(i)   does not maintain diplomatic relations with the non-Party; or  
 
(ii)   adopts or maintains measures with respect to the non-Party or an investor 
of the non-Party that prohibit transactions with the enterprise or that would 
be violated or circumvented if the benefits of this Chapter were accorded 
to the enterprise or to its investments; or  
 
(b)   the enterprise has no substantial business activities in the territory of the other 
Party, and investors of a non-Party, or of the denying Party, own or control the 
enterprise.  
 
ARTICLE 15.12 : NON-CONFORMING MEASURES 
   
1.   Articles 15.4, 15.8, and 15.9 do not apply to:  
 
(a)   any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a Party at:  
 
(i)   the central level of government, as set out by that Party in its Schedule to 
Annex 8A,   
 
(ii)   a regional level of government, as set out by that Party in its Schedule to 
Annex 8A, or  
 
(iii)   a local level of government;  
 
(b)   the continuation or prompt renewal of any non-conforming measure referred to in 
subparagraph (a); or  
 
(c)   an amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in subparagraph (a) to  
the extent that the amendment does not decrease the conformity of the measure, as 
it existed immediately before the amendment, with Articles 15.4, 15.8, or 15.9.     
   
   
 
167 
 
   
2.   Articles 15.4, 15.8, and 15.9 do not apply to any measure that a Party adopts or maintains 
with respect to sectors, sub-sectors, or activities, as set out in its Schedule to Annex 8B.  
   
3.   Neither Party may, under any measure adopted after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement and covered by its Schedule to Annex 8B, require an investor of the other Party, by 
reason of its nationality, to sell or otherwise dispose of an investment existing at the time the 
measure becomes effective.   
   
4.   Article 15.4 does not apply to any measure that is an exception to, or derogation from, the 
obligations under Article 16.1.3 (General Provisions) as specifically provided for in that Article.  
   
5.   Articles 15.4 and 15.9 do not apply to:  
 
(a)   government procurement; or   
 
(b)   subsidies or grants provided by a Party, including government-supported loans, 
guarantees, and insurance.  
 
ARTICLE 15.13 : SPECIAL FORMALITIES AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS 
   
1.   Nothing in Article 15.4.1 and 15.4.2 shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting 
or maintaining a measure that prescribes special formalities in connection with covered 
investments, such as a requirement that investors be residents of the Party or that covered 
investments be legally constituted under the laws or regulations of the Party, provided that such 
formalities do not materially impair the protections afforded by a Party to investors of the other 
Party and covered investments pursuant to this Chapter.  
   
2.   Notwithstanding Article 15.4, a Party may require an investor of the other Party, or a 
covered investment, to provide information concerning that investment solely for informational 
or statistical purposes.  The Party shall protect such business information that is confidential 
from any disclosure that would prejudice the competitive position of the investor or the covered 
investment.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from otherwise 
obtaining or disclosing information in connection with the equitable and good faith application 
of its law. 
 
SECTION C – INVESTOR-STATE DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
ARTICLE 15.14 : CONSULTATION AND NEGOTIATION 
 
In the event of an investment dispute, the claimant and the respondent should initially seek to 
resolve the dispute through consultation and negotiation, which may include the use of non- 
binding, third-party procedures.   
 
 
168 
 
ARTICLE 15.15 : SUBMISSION OF A CLAIM TO ARBITRATION15-12 
   
1.   In the event that a disputing party considers that an investment dispute cannot be settled 
by consultation and negotiation:  
 
(a)   the claimant, on its own behalf, may submit to arbitration under this Section a 
claim:  
   
(i)   that the respondent has breached  
 
(A)   an obligation under Section B,  
 
(B)   an investment authorization, or  
 
(C)   an investment agreement; and  
 
(ii)   that the claimant has incurred loss or damage by reason of, or arising out 
of, that breach; and  
 
(b)   the claimant, on behalf of an enterprise of the respondent that is a juridical person 
that the claimant owns or controls directly or indirectly, may submit to arbitration 
under this Section a claim:  
   
(i)   that the respondent has breached   
 
(A)   an obligation under Section B,  
 
(B)   an investme nt authorization, or  
 
(C)   an investment agreement; and  
   
  (ii)   that the enterprise has incurred loss or damage by reason of, or arising out 
 
of, that breach.  
 
 
2.   For greater certainty, a claimant may submit to arbitration under this Section a claim that 
the respondent has breached an obligation under Section B through the actions of a designated 
monopoly or a government enterprise exercising delegated governmental authority as described 
in Article 12.3.1(c)(i) and 12.3.2(b) (Designated Monopolies and Government Enterprises), 
respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Article 15.15 is subject to the letter exchange on land expropriation.  
15-12   
   
   
 
169 
 
   
3.   Without prejudice to Article 10.1.2 (Scope and Coverage), no claim may be submitted 
under this Section that alleges a violation of any provision of this Agreement other than an 
obligation under Section B or the letter exchange on land expropriation.   
   
4.   At least 90 days before submitting any claim to arbitration under this Section, a claimant 
shall deliver to the respondent a written notice of its intention to submit the claim to arbitration 
(“notice of intent”).  The notice shall specify:  
 
(a)   the name and address of the claimant and, where a claim is submitted on behalf of 
an enterprise, the name, address, and place of incorporation of the enterprise;   
 
(b)   for each claim, the provision of this Agreement, investment authorization, or 
investment agreement alleged to have been breached and any other relevant 
provisions;  
 
(c)   the legal and factual basis for each claim; and   
 
(d)   the relief sought and the approximate amount of damages claimed.   
   
5.   Provided that six months have elapsed since the events giving rise to the claim, a 
claimant may submit a claim referred to in paragraph 1:  
 
(a)   under the ICSID Convention and the ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration 
Proceedings, provided that both the respondent and the Party of the claimant are 
parties to the ICSID Convention;   
 
(b)   under the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, provided that either the respondent or 
the Party of the claimant, but not both, is a party to the ICSID Convention;  
 
(c)   under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or  
 
(d)   if the claimant and respondent agree, to any other arbitration institution or under  
any other arbitration rules.  
   
6.   A claim shall be deemed submitted to arbitration under this Section when the claimant’s 
notice of or request for arbitration (“notice of arbitration”):   
 
(a)   referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 36 of the ICSID Convention is received by 
the Secretary-General;   
 
(b)   referred to in Article 2 of Schedule C of the ICSID Additional Facility Rules is 
received by the Secretary-General;    
 
 
170 
 
(c)   referred to in Article 3 of the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, together with the 
statement of claim referred to in Article 18 of the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, 
are received by the respondent; or  
 
(d)   referred to under any other arbitral institution or arbitral rules selected under 
paragraph 5(d) is received by the respondent.  
 
7. The arbitration rules applicable under paragraph 5, and in effect on the date the claim or 
claims were submitted to arbitration under this Section, shall govern the arbitration except to the 
extent modified by this Agreement.   
   
8.   The claimant shall provide with the notice of arbitration referred to in paragraph 6:  
 
(a)   the name of the arbitrator that the claimant appoints; or  
 
(b)   the claimant’s written consent for the Secretary-General to appoint the claimant’s 
arbitrator.   
 
ARTICLE 15.16 : CONSENT OF EACH PARTY TO ARBITRATION 
   
1.   Each Party consents to the submission of a claim to arbitration under this Section in 
accordance with this Agreement.  
   
2.   The consent under paragraph 1 and the submission of a claim to arbitration under this 
Section shall satisfy the requirements of:  
 
(a)   Chapter II of the ICSID Convention (Jurisdiction of the Centre) and the ICSID 
Additional Facility Rules for written consent of the parties to the dispute; and  
 
(b)   Article II of the New York Convention for an "agreement in writing."  
 
ARTICLE 15.17 : CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON CONSENT OF EACH PARTY 
   
1.   No claim may be submitted to arbitration under this Section if more than three years have 
elapsed from the date on which the claima nt first acquired, or should have first acquired, 
knowledge of the breach alleged under Article 15.15.1 and knowledge that the claimant (for 
claims brought under Article 15.15.1(a)) or the enterprise (for claims brought under Article 
15.15.1(b)) has incurred loss or damage.  
   
2.   No claim may be submitted to arbitration under this Section unless:  
 
(a)   the claimant consents in writing to arbitration in accordance with the procedures 
set out in this Agreement; and  
 
(b)   the notice of arbitration referred to in Article 15.15.6 is accompanied,     
   
   
 
171 
 
   
(i)   for claims submitted to arbitration under Article 15.15.1(a), by the 
claimant’s written waiver; and  
   
  (ii)   for claims submitted to arbitration under Article 15.15.1(b), by the 
 
claimant’s and the enterprise’s written waivers  
 
 
 
  of any right to initiate or continue before any administrative tribunal or court 
  under the law of either Party, or other dispute settlement procedures, any 
 
proceeding with respect to any measure alleged to constitute a breach referred to 
 
  in Article 15.15.  
   
3.   Notwithstanding paragraph 2(b), the claimant (for claims brought under Article 
15.15.1(a)) and the claimant or the enterprise (for claims brought under Article 15.15.1(b)) may 
initiate or continue an action that seeks interim injunctive relief and does not involve the 
payment of monetary damages before a judicial or administrative tribunal of the respondent, 
provided that the action is brought for the sole purpose of preserving the claimant’s or the 
enterprise’s rights and interests during the pendency of the arbitration. 
 
ARTICLE 15.18 : SELECTION OF ARBITRATORS 
   
1.   Unless the disputing parties otherwise agree, the tribunal shall comprise three arbitrators, 
one arbitrator appointed by each of the disputing parties and the third, who shall be the presiding 
arbitrator, appointed by agreement of the disputing parties.   
   
2.   The Secretary-General shall serve as appointing authority for an arbitration under this 
Section.   
   
3.   If a tribunal has not been constituted within 75 days from the date that a claim is 
submitted to arbitration under this Section, the Secretary-General, on the request of a disputing 
party, shall appoint, in his or her discretion, the arbitrator or arbitrators not yet appointed.  
   
4.   For purposes of Article 39 of the ICSID Convention and Article 7 of Schedule C to the 
ICSID Additional Facility Rules, and without prejudice to an objection to an arbitrator on a 
ground other than nationality:  
 
(a)   the respondent agrees to the appointment of each individual member of a tribunal 
established under the ICSID Convention or the ICSID Additional Facility Rules;  
 
(b)   a claimant referred to in Article 15.15.1(a) may submit a claim to arbitration 
under this Section, or continue a claim, under the ICSID Convention or the ICSID 
Additional Facility Rules, only on condition that the claimant agrees in writing to 
the appointment of each individual member of the tribunal; and   
 
(c)   a claimant referred to in Article 15.15.1(b) may submit a claim to arbitration 
under this Section, or continue a claim, under the ICSID Convention or the ICSID  
 
 
172 
 
Additional Facility Rules, only on condition that the claimant and the enterprise 
agree in writing to the appointment of each individual member of the tribunal.   
 
ARTICLE 15.19 : CONDUCT OF THE ARBITRATION 
   
1.   The disputing parties may agree on the legal place of any arbitration under the arbitral 
rules applicable under Article 15.15.5(b), (c), or (d).  If the disputing parties fail to reach 
agreement, the tribunal shall determine the place in accordance with the applicable arbitral rules, 
provided that the place shall be in the territory of either Party or of a third State that is a party to 
the New York Convention.  
   
2.   The non-disputing Party may make oral and written submissions to the tribunal regarding 
the interpretation of this Agreement.  
   
3.   The tribunal shall have the authority to accept and consider amicus curiae submissions 
from any persons and entities in the territories of the Parties and from interested persons and 
entities outside the territories of the Parties.  
   
4.   Without prejudice to a tribunal’s authority to address other objections as a preliminary 
question, a tribunal shall address and decide as a preliminary question any objection by the 
respondent that, as a matter of law, a claim submitted is not a claim for which an award in favor 
of the claimant may be made under Article 15.25.   
 
(a)   Such objection shall be submitted to the tribunal as soon as possible after the 
tribunal is constituted, and in no event later than the date the tribunal fixes for the 
respondent to submit its counter-memorial (or, in the case of an amendment to the 
notice of arbitration referred to in Article 15.15.6, the date the tribunal fixes for 
the respondent to submit its response to the amendment).    
 
(b)   On receipt of an objection under this paragraph, the tribunal shall suspend any 
proceedings on the merits, establish a schedule for considering the objection 
consistent with any schedule it has established for considering any other 
preliminary question, and issue a decision or award on the objection, stating the 
grounds therefor.   
 
(c)   In deciding an objection under this paragraph, the tribunal shall assume to be true 
the claimant’s factual allegations in support of any claim in the notice of 
arbitration (or any amendment thereof) and, in disputes brought under the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, the statement of claim referred to in Article 18 of 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules.  The tribunal may also consider any relevant 
facts not in dispute.  
 
(d)   The respondent does not waive any objection as to competence or any argument 
on the merits merely because the respondent did or did not raise an objection    
   
   
 
173 
 
   
 
under this paragraph or make use of the expedited procedure set out in the 
 
  following paragraph.  
   
5.   In the event that the respondent so requests within 45 days after the tribunal is 
constituted, the tribunal shall decide on an expedited basis an objection under paragraph 4 or any 
objection that the dispute is not within the tribunal’s competence.  The tribunal shall suspend any 
proceedings on the merits and issue a decision or award on the objection(s), stating the grounds 
therefor, no later than 150 days after the date of the request.  However, if a disputing party 
requests a hearing, the tribunal may take an additional 30 days to issue the decision or award.   
Regardless of whether a hearing is requested, a tribunal may, on a showing of extraordinary 
cause, delay issuing its decision or award by an additional brief period of time, which may not 
exceed 30 days.  
   
6.   When it decides a respondent’s objection under paragraphs 4 or 5, the tribunal may, if 
warranted, award to the prevailing disputing party reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees incurred 
in submitting or opposing the objection.  In determining whether such an award is warranted, the 
tribunal shall consider whether either the claimant’s claim or the respondent’s objection was 
frivolous, and shall provide the disputing parties a reasonable opportunity to comment.  
   
7.   A respondent may not assert as a defense, counterclaim, right of set-off, or for any other 
reason that the claimant has received or will receive indemnification or other compensation for 
all or part of the alleged damages pursuant to an insurance or guarantee contract.  
   
8.   A tribunal may order an interim measure of protection to preserve the rights of a 
disputing party, or to ensure that the tribunal’s jurisdiction is made fully effective, including an 
order to preserve evidence in the possession or control of a disputing party or to protect the 
tribunal’s jurisdiction.  A tribunal may not order attachment or enjoin the application of a 
measure alleged to constitute a breach referred to in Article 15.15.  For purposes of this 
paragraph, an order includes a recommendation.  
   
9.   (a)   In any arbitration conducted under this Section, at the request of a disputing party, 
a tribunal shall, before issuing an award on liability, transmit its proposed award 
to the disputing parties and to the non-disputing Party.  Within 60 days after the 
tribunal transmits its proposed award, the disputing parties may submit written 
comments to the tribunal concerning any aspect of its proposed award.  The 
tribunal shall consider any such comments and issue its award not later than 45 
days after the expiration of the 60-day comment period.  
 
(b)   Subparagraph (a) shall not apply in any arbitration conducted pursuant to this 
Section for which an appeal has been made available pursuant to paragraph 10.  
 
10.   If a separate multilateral agreement enters into force as between the Parties that 
establishes an appellate body for purposes of reviewing awards rendered by tribunals constituted 
pursuant to international trade or investment arrangements to hear investment disputes, the  
 
 
174 
 
Parties shall strive to reach an agreement that would have such appellate body review awards 
rendered under Article 15.25 of this Section in arbitrations commenced after the appellate body’s 
establishment.  
 
ARTICLE 15.20 :  TRANSPARENCY OF ARBITRAL PROCEEDINGS 
   
1.   Subject to paragraphs 2 and 4, the respondent shall, after receiving the following 
documents, promptly transmit them to the non-disputing Party and make them available to the 
public:  
 
(a)   the notice of intent referred to in Article 15.15.4;  
 
(b)   the notice of arbitration referred to in Article 15.15.6;  
 
(c)   pleadings, memorials, and briefs submitted to the tribunal by a disputing party and 
any written submissions submitted pursuant to Article 15.19.2 and 15.19.3 and 
Article 15.24;  
 
(d)   minutes or transcripts of hearings of the tribunal, where available; and   
 
(e)   orders, awards, and decisions of the tribunal.   
   
2.   The tribunal shall conduct hearings open to the public and shall determine, in 
consultation with the disputing parties, the appropriate logistical arrangements.  However, any 
disputing party that intends to use information designated as protected information in a hearing 
shall so advise the tribunal.  The tribunal shall make appropriate arrangements to protect the 
information from disclosure.  
   
3.   Nothing in this Section requires a respondent to disclose protected information or to 
furnish or allow access to information that it may withhold in accordance with Article 21.2 
(Essential Security) or Article 21.4 (Disclosure of Information).  
   
4.   Protected information shall, if such information is submitted to the tribunal, be protected 
from disclosure in accordance with the following procedures:  
 
(a)   Subject to paragraph 4(d), neither the disputing parties nor the tribunal shall 
disclose to the non-disputing Party or to the public any protected information 
where the disputing party that provided the information clearly designates it in 
accordance with paragraph 4(b).  
 
(b)   Any disputing party claiming that certain information constitutes protected 
information shall clearly designate the information at the time it is submitted to 
the tribunal.       
   
   
 
175 
 
   
 
(c)   A disputing party shall, at the same time that it submits a document containing 
 
  information claimed to be protected information, submit a redacted version of the 
  document that does not contain the information.  Only the redacted version shall 
 
be provided to the non-disputing Party and made public in accordance with 
 
paragraph 1.  
 
   
  (d)   The tribunal shall decide any objection regarding the designation of information 
 
claimed to be protected information.  If the tribunal determines that such 
 
information was not properly designated, the disputing party that submitted the 
 
  information may (i) withdraw all or part of its submission containing such 
  information, or (ii) agree to resubmit complete and redacted documents with 
 
corrected designations in accordance with the tribunal’s determination and 
 
  paragraph 4(c).  In either case, the other disputing party shall, whenever 
  necessary, resubmit complete and redacted documents which either remove the 
 
information withdrawn under (i) by the disputing party that first submitted the 
 
  information or redesignate the information consistent with the designation under 
  (ii) of the disputing party that first submitted the information.  
   
5.   Nothing in this Section authorizes a respondent to withhold from the public information 
required to be disclosed by its laws.  
 
ARTICLE 15.21 : GOVERNING LAW 
   
1.   Subject to paragraph 2, a tribunal shall decide the issues in dispute related to an alleged 
breach of an obligation in Section B in accordance with this Agreement and applicable rules of 
international law.  
   
2.   A decision of the Joint Committee declaring its interpretation of a provision of this 
Agreement under Article 20.1.2 (Joint Committee) shall be binding on a tribunal established 
under this Section, and any award must be consistent with that decision.  
 
ARTICLE 15.22 : INTERPRETATION OF ANNEXES 
   
1.   Where a respondent asserts as a defense that the measure alleged to be a breach is within 
the scope of a reservation or exception set out in Annex 8A or Annex 8B, the tribunal shall, on 
request of the respondent, request the interpretation of the Joint Committee on the issue.  The 
Joint Committee shall issue in writing any decision declaring its interpretation under Article 
20.1.2 (Joint Committee) to the tribunal within 60 days of delivery of the request.   
   
2.   A decision issued by the Joint Committee under paragraph 1 shall be binding on the 
tribunal, and any award must be consistent with that decision.  If the Joint Committee fails to 
issue such a decision within 60 days, the tribunal shall decide the issue.     
   
   
 
176 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.23 : EXPERT REPORTS 
 
Without prejudice to the appointment of other kinds of experts where authorized by the 
applicable arbitration rules, a tribunal, at the request of a disputing party or, unless the disputing 
parties disapprove, on its own initiative, may appoint one or more experts to report to it in 
writing on any factual issue concerning environmental, health, safety, or other scientific matters 
raised by a disputing party in a proceeding, subject to such terms and conditions as the disputing 
parties may agree. 
 
ARTICLE 15.24 : CONSOLIDATION 
   
1.   Where two or more claims have been submitted separately to arbitration under Article 
15.15.1 and the claims have a question of law or fact in common and arise out of the same events 
or circumstances, any disputing party may seek a consolidation order in accordance with the 
agreement of all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the order or the terms of 
paragraphs 2 through 10.  
   
2.   A disputing party that seeks a consolidation order under this Article shall deliver, in 
writing, a request to the Secretary-General and to all the disputing parties sought to be covered 
by the order and shall specify in the request:  
 
(a)   the names and addresses of all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the 
order;  
 
(b)   the nature of the order sought; and  
 
(c)   the grounds on which the order is sought.  
   
3.   Unless the Secretary-General finds within 30 days after receiving a request under 
paragraph 2 that the request is manifestly unfounded, a tribunal shall be established under this 
Article.  
   
4.   Unless all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the order otherwise agree, a 
tribunal established under this Article shall comprise three arbitrators:   
 
(a)   one arbitrator appointed by agreement of the claimants;    
 
(b)   one arbitrator appointed by the respondent; and   
 
(c)   the presiding arbitrator appointed by the Secretary-General, provided, however, 
that the presiding arbitrator shall not be a national of either Party.  
   
5.   If, within 60 days after the Secretary-General receives a request made under paragraph 2, 
the respondent fails or the claimants fail to appoint an arbitrator in accordance with paragraph 4, 
the Secretary-General, on the request of any disputing party sought to be covered by the order,  
 
 
177 
 
shall appoint the arbitrator or arbitrators not yet appointed.  If the respondent fails to appoint an 
arbitrator, the Secretary-General shall appoint a national of the disputing Party, and if the 
claimants fail to appoint an arbitrator, the Secretary-General shall appoint a national of the non- 
disputing Party.  
   
6.   Where a tribunal established under this Article is satisfied that two or more claims that  
have been submitted to arbitration under Article 15.15.1 have a question of law or fact in 
common, and arise out of the same events or circumstances, the tribunal may, in the interest of 
fair and efficient resolution of the claims, and after hearing the disputing parties, by order:  
 
(a)   assume jurisdiction over, and hear and determine together, all or part of the 
claims;   
 
(b)   assume jurisdiction over, and hear and determine one or more of the claims, the 
determination of which it believes would assist in the resolution of the others; or  
 
(c)   instruct a tribunal previously established under Article 15.18 to assume 
jurisdiction over, and hear and determine together, all or part of the claims, 
provided that:  
   
(i)   that tribunal, at the request of any claimant not previously a disputing 
party before that tribunal, shall be reconstituted with its original members, 
except that the arbitrator for the claimants shall be appointed pursuant to 
paragraphs 4(a) and 5; and  
   
  (ii)   that tribunal shall decide whether any prior hearing shall be repeated.  
 
 
7.   Where a tribunal has been established under this Article, a claimant that has submitted a 
claim to arbitration under Article 15.15.1 and that has not been named in a request made under 
paragraph 2 may make a written request to the tribunal that it be included in any order made 
under paragraph 6, and shall specify in the request:  
 
(a)   the name and address of the claimant;  
 
(b)   the nature of the order sought; and  
 
(c)   the grounds on which the order is sought.  
 
The claimant shall deliver a copy of its request to the Secretary-General.  
   
8.   A tribunal established under this Article shall conduct its proceedings in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, except as modified by this Section.      
   
   
 
178 
 
   
9.   A tribunal established under Article 15.18 shall not have jurisdiction to decide a claim, or 
a part of a claim, over which a tribunal established or instructed under this Article has assumed 
jurisdiction.  
 
10.   On application of a disputing party, a tribunal established under this Article, pending its 
decision under paragraph 6, may order that the proceedings of a tribunal established under 
Article 15.18 be stayed, unless the latter tribunal has already adjourned its proceedings.  
 
ARTICLE 15.25 : AWARDS 
   
1.  Where a tribunal makes a final award against a respondent, the tribunal may award, 
separately or in combination, only:  
 
(a)   monetary damages and any applicable interest; and  
 
(b)   restitution of property, in which case the award shall provide that the respondent 
may pay monetary damages and any applicable interest in lieu of restitution.  
 
A tribunal may also award costs and attorneys’ fees in accordance with this Section and the 
applicable arbitration rules.  
   
2.  Subject to paragraph 1, where a claim is submitted to arbitration under Article 15.15.1(b):  
   
  (a)   an award of restitution of property shall provide that restitution be made to the 
 
enterprise;   
 
 
 
  (b)   an award of monetary damages and any applicable interest shall provide that the 
  sum be paid to the enterprise; and   
 
 
 
(c)   the award shall provide that it is made without prejudice to any right that any 
 
  person may have in the relief under applicable domestic law.  
   
3.   A tribunal may not award punitive damages.   
   
4.   An award made by a tribunal shall have no binding force except between the disputing 
parties and in respect of the particular case.   
   
5.   Subject to paragraph 6 and the applicable review procedure for an interim award, a 
disputing party shall abide by and comply with an award without delay.  
   
6.   A disputing party may not seek enforcement of a final award until:   
 
(a)   in the case of a final award made under the ICSID Convention,     
   
   
 
179 
 
   
(i)   120 days have elapsed from the date the award was rendered and no 
disputing party has requested revision or annulment of the award; or  
 
(ii)   revision or annulment proceedings have been completed; and  
 
(b)   in the case of a final award under the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, or the rules selected pursuant to Article 
15.15.5(d),  
   
(i)   90 days have elapsed from the date the award was rendered and no 
disputing party has commenced a proceeding to revise, set aside, or annul 
the award, or   
   
  (ii)   a court has dismissed or allowed an application to revise, set aside, or 
 
annul the award and there is no further appeal.   
 
 
7.   Each Party shall provide for the enforcement of an award in its territory.  
   
8.   If the respondent fails to abide by or comply with a final award, on delivery of a written 
notification by the non-disputing Party, a panel shall be established under Article 20.4.4(a) 
(Additional Dispute Settlement Procedures).  The requesting Party may seek in such 
proceedings:   
 
(a)   a determination that the failure to abide by or comply with the final award is 
inconsistent with the obligations of this Agreement; and   
 
(b)   in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article 20.4.5(b) (Additional 
Dispute Settlement Procedures), a recommendation that the respondent abide by 
or comply with the final award.   
   
9.   A disputing party may seek enforcement of an arbitration award under the ICSID 
Convention or the New York Convention regardless of whether proceedings have been taken 
under paragraph 8.   
 
10.   A claim that is submitted to arbitration under this Section shall be considered to arise out 
of a commercial relationship or transaction for purposes of Article I of the New York 
Convention.  
 
ARTICLE 15.26 : STATUS OF LETTER EXCHANGES 
 
The following letters exchanged this day on:  
 
(a)   Customary International Law;  
 
(b)   Expropriation;     
   
   
 
180 
 
 
(c)   Land Expropriation; and  
 
(d)   Appellate Mechanism  
 
shall form an integral part of the Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 15.27 : SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS 
 
Delivery of notices and other documents on a Party shall be made to the place named for that 
Party in Annex 15D.   