CHAPTER 6 
TRADE REMEDIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
domestic industry means the producers as a whole of the like or directly competitive 
products operating within the territory of a Party, or those whose collective output of the 
like or directly competitive products constitute a major proportion of the total domestic 
production of those products; 
 
global safeguard measure means a measure applied under Article XIX of  GATT 
1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards; 
 
serious injury means a significant overall impairment in the position of a domestic 
industry; 
 
substantial cause means a cause which is important and not less than any other cause; 
and 
 
threat of serious injury means serious injury that, on the basis of facts and not merely 
on allegation, conjecture or remote possibility, is clearly imminent. 
 
 
Article 6.2 : Anti-Dumping Measures  
 
1.   The Parties maintain their rights and obligations under Article VI of  GATT 1994 
and  the  Agreement  on  Implementation  of  Article  VI  of    GATT  1994  (“WTO 
Agreement on Anti-dumping”). 
 
2.   Anti-dumping actions taken pursuant to Articles VI of  GATT 1994 and the WTO 
Agreement on Anti-dumping shall not be subject to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
3.   Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the Parties shall observe the following practices in 
anti-dumping  cases  between  them  in  order  to  enhance  transparency  in  the 
 implementation of the WTO Anti-dumping Agreement: 
 
(a)  when anti-dumping margins are established on the weighted average basis, 
all  individual  margins,  whether  positive  or  negative,  should  be  counted 
toward the average; and 
(b)  if a decision is taken to impose an anti-dumping duty pursuant to Article 9.1 
of the WTO Agreement on Anti-dumping, the Party taking such a decision, 
should apply the ‘lesser duty’ rule, by imposing a duty which is less than the 
dumping margin where such lesser duty would be adequate to remove the 
injury to the domestic industry. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6.3 : COUNTERVAILING MEASURES 
 
1.   The Parties maintain their rights and obligations under Article VI of GATT 1994 
and the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. 
 
2.   Countervailing measures taken pursuant to Article VI of GATT 1994 and the WTO 
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures shall not be subject to Chapter 
20 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
Article 6.4 : Bilateral Safeguard Measures  
 
1.   Subject to paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, if, as a result of the reduction or 
elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, an originating good of the other 
Party is being imported into the territory of a Party in such increased quantities, in 
absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions that the 
imports of such originating good from the other Party constitute a substantial cause of 
serious injury or threat thereof, to a domestic industry producing a like or directly 
competitive good, such Party may: 
 
(a)  suspend  further reduction of any rate of customs duty provided for under 
this Agreement for such originating good; or 
(b)  increase the rate of customs duty on  such originating good to a level not to 
exceed the lesser of: 
(i)   the most-favoured-nation (“MFN”) applied rate of duty on the good in 
 effect at the time the action is taken; and 
(ii)   the  MFN  applied  rate  of  duty  on  the  good  in  effect  on  the  day 
immediately preceding the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
2.  A Party shall take a measure only following an investigation by that Party’s 
competent authorities in accordance with Article 3 and paragraph 2 of Article 4 of the 
WTO Agreement on Safeguards. To this end, Article 3 and paragraph 2 of Article 4 of 
the WTO Agreement on Safeguards are incorporated into and made a part of this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis. The investigation shall in all cases be completed within 
one year following its date of initiation. 
 
3.  A Party shall notify the other Party in writing upon initiation of an investigation 
provided for in paragraph 2 and shall consult with the other Party as far in advance of 
taking any such measure as practicable, with a view to reviewing the information arising 
from the investigation, exchanging views on the measure and reaching an agreement on 
compensation as set out in paragraph 8. If a Party takes a provisional measure pursuant 
to paragraph 7, the Party shall also notify the other Party prior to taking such measure, 
and shall initiate consultations with the other Party immediately after such measure is 
taken. 
 
4.  No measure may be maintained: 
 
(a)  except to the extent and for such period of time as may be necessary to 
prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment; or 
(b)  for a period exceeding two (2) years; except that the period may be extended 
by up to two (2) years if the competent authorities determine, in conformity 
with the procedures set out in paragraphs 1 through 3, that the measure 
continues  to  be  necessary  to  prevent  or  remedy  serious  injury  and  to 
facilitate adjustment and that there is evidence that the industry is adjusting. 
 
5.  Where the expected duration of the measure is over one year, the Party applying 
such measure shall progressively liberalise it at regular intervals during the period of 
application. 
 
6.  Upon the termination of the measure, the rate of customs duty shall be the rate 
which would have been in effect but for the measure. 
 
 7.  In  critical  circumstances,  where  delay  would  cause  damage  which  would  be 
difficult to repair, a Party may take a measure described in paragraph 1 on a provisional 
basis pursuant to a preliminary determination that there is clear evidence that imports 
from the other Party have increased as the result of the reduction or elimination of a 
customs duty under this Agreement, and such imports constitute a substantial cause of 
serious  injury,  or  threat  thereof,  to  the  domestic  industry.    The  duration  of  such 
provisional measure shall not exceed 200 days, during which time the requirements of 
paragraph 2 shall be met.  Any tariff increases shall be promptly refunded if the 
investigation  provided  for  in  paragraph  2  does  not  result  in  a  finding  that  the 
requirements of paragraph 1 are met.  The duration of any provisional measure shall be 
counted as part of the period described in paragraph 4. 
 
8.   The Party applying a measure described in paragraph 1 shall provide to the other 
Party mutually agreed trade liberalising compensation in the form of concessions having 
substantially equivalent trade effects or equivalent to the value of the additional duties 
expected to result from the measure. If the Parties are unable to agree on compensation 
within thirty (30) days in the consultations under paragraph 3, the Party against whose 
originating good the measure is applied may take action with respect to originating 
goods of the other Party that has trade effects substantially equivalent to the measure.  
The Party taking such action shall apply the action only for the  minimum period 
necessary to achieve the substantially equivalent effects, and in any event, only while 
the measure under paragraph 1 is being applied. 
 
 
Article 6.5 : Global Safeguard Measures 
 
1.   The Parties maintain their rights and obligations under Article XIX of GATT 1994 
and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards. 
 
2.   Actions taken pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be subject to 
Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 