CHAPTER 15  
COMPETITION 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS 
 
1.  The purpose of this Chapter is to contribute to the fulfillment of the objectives of 
this Agreement through the promotion of fair competition and the curtailment of anti-
competitive practices. 
 
2.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Chapter,  anti-competitive  practices  means  business 
conduct or transactions that adversely affect competition, such as: 
 
(a)  anti-competitive horizontal arrangements between competitors; 
(b)  misuse of market power; 
(c)  anti-competitive vertical arrangements between businesses; and 
(d)  anti-competitive mergers and acquisitions. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.2: PROMOTION OF COMPETITION 
 
1.  Each Party shall promote competition by addressing anti-competitive practices in 
its territory, adopting and enforcing such means or measures as it deems appropriate and 
effective to counter such practices. 
 
2.  Such means and measures may include the implementation of competition and 
regulatory arrangements. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.3: APPLICATION OF COMPETITION LAWS 
 
1.  The Parties shall ensure that all businesses registered or incorporated under their 
respective domestic laws are subject to such generic or relevant sectoral competition 
laws as may be in force in their respective territories.  
 
 2.  Any measures taken by a Party to proscribe anti-competitive practices, and the 
enforcement actions taken pursuant to those measures, shall be consistent with the 
principles of transparency, timeliness, non-discrimination and procedural fairness. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.4: COMPETITIVE NEUTRALITY 
 
1.  Each Party shall take reasonable measures to ensure that its government does not 
provide  any  competitive  advantage  to  any  government-owned  businesses  in  their 
business activities simply because they are government-owned.  
 
2.  This Article applies to the business activities of government-owned businesses and 
not to their non-business and non-commercial activities. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.5: CONSULTATIONS 
 
1.  At the request of a Party, the Parties shall enter into consultations regarding 
matters that may arise under this Chapter, including the elimination of particular anti-
competitive practices that affect trade or investment between the Parties. 
 
2.  During the consultations under this Article, each Party shall endeavour to provide 
relevant information to the other Party in order to facilitate the discussion regarding the 
relevant aspects of the matter which is the subject of consultations. 
 
3.  Any information or documents exchanged between the Parties in relation to any 
mutual consultations under this Chapter shall be kept confidential.   
 
 
ARTICLE 15.6: CO-OPERATION 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the importance of co-operation and co-ordination between 
their competition authorities for effective competition law enforcement in both Parties. 
 
2.  Within six (6) months from the coming into effect of a generic competition law in 
Singapore, the Parties shall consult with a view to making a separate arrangement 
between their competition authorities regarding the scope and content of co-operation 
 and co-ordination.  
 
 
ARTICLE 15.7: TRANSPARENCY 
 
  The  Parties  shall  publish  or  otherwise  make  publicly  available  their  laws 
addressing fair competition, including information on any exemptions provided under 
such laws. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15.8: DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter permits a Party to re-open, re-examine or to challenge 
under  any  dispute  settlement  procedure  under  this  Agreement,  any  finding, 
determination  or  decision  made  by  a  competition  authority  of  the  other  Party  in 
enforcing the applicable competition laws and regulations.   
 
2.  Neither Party shall have recourse to any dispute settlement procedures under this 
Agreement for any issue arising from or relating to this Chapter.   
 
3.  In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between any provision in this Chapter 
and any provision contained in any other Chapter of this Agreement, the latter shall 
prevail to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict. 
 
 