 
CHAPTER 17 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.1 : DEFINITION 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
intellectual  property  rights  refer  to  copyright  and  related  rights,  trademarks, 
geographical indications, industrial designs, patents, layout-designs (topographies) of 
integrated circuits and rights in undisclosed information; 
 
TRIPS  Agreement  means  the  WTO  Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of 
Intellectual Property Rights; 
 
PCT  means the Patent Cooperation Treaty administered  by the World Intellectual 
Property Organization; 
 
ISA  and  IPEA  means  the  International  Searching  Authority  and  the  International 
Preliminary Examining Authority, respectively, under the PCT; 
 
IPOS means the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore; and 
 
KIPO means the Korean Intellectual Property Office. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.2 : GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
 
  Each  Party  re-affirms  its  obligations  under  the  TRIPS  Agreement,  and,  in 
accordance with the TRIPS Agreement, shall provide adequate and effective protection 
of intellectual property rights to the nationals of the other Party in its territory. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.3 : ENFORCEMENT 
 
  The  Parties  shall,  consistent  with  the  TRIPS  Agreement,  provide  for  the 
 enforcement of intellectual property rights in their respective laws. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.4 : MORE EXTENSIVE PROTECTION 
 
  Each Party may implement in its domestic laws more extensive protection of 
intellectual property rights than is required under this Agreement, provided that such 
protection is not inconsistent with this Agreement and the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.5 : CO-OPERATION IN THE FIELD OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
1.  The Parties, recognising the growing importance of intellectual property rights as a 
factor of social, economic and cultural development, shall enhance their co-operation in 
the field of intellectual property. 
 
2.  The Parties, pursuant to paragraph 1, may co-operate in the following areas:  
 
(a)  international search and international preliminary examination under PCT and 
facilitation of international patenting process; 
(b)  promotion of mutual understanding of the other Party's intellectual property 
policies, activities, and experiences thereof;  
(c)  promotion of education and awareness of intellectual property;  
(d)  patent technology, licensing, and market intelligence; and 
(e)  plant  variety  protection  including  exchange  of  technical  expertise  and 
knowledge. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.6 : DESIGNATION OF KIPO AS AN ISA AND IPEA UNDER PCT 
 
1.  Singapore  shall  designate  KIPO  as  an  ISA  and  IPEA  under  the  PCT  for 
international applications received by IPOS insofar as these applications are submitted 
in the English language. 
 
2.  Within three (3) months from the date of the signature of this Agreement, KIPO 
and IPOS shall conclude a Working Agreement for the detailed procedures in relation to 
the designation of KIPO as an ISA and IPEA as mentioned in paragraph 1. 
  
 
ARTICLE 17.7 : FACILITATION OF PATENTING PROCESS 
 
  Singapore shall designate KIPO as a prescribed patent office in accordance with 
the Patents Act (Cap. 221) of Singapore and the regulations made thereunder for the 
purpose of facilitating the patent process of a patent application filed in Singapore that 
corresponds to a patent application filed in Korea, where the applicant for that patent 
application filed in Singapore provides IPOS with the necessary information, documents 
and translation on that corresponding application filed in Korea, as required by the 
Patents Act and the regulations thereunder. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17.8 : PROMOTION OF EDUCATION AND AWARENESS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
  The Parties may jointly undertake education, workshops, and fairs in the field of 
intellectual property for the purposes of contributing to a better understanding of each 
other's intellectual property policies and experiences. 
 
ARTICLE 17.9 : JOINT COMMITTEE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
1.  For the purpose of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint Committee on 
Intellectual Property (“the IP Joint Committee”) shall be established. The functions of 
the IP Joint Committee may include:  
 
(a)  overseeing and reviewing the Parties' co-operation under this Chapter;  
(b)  providing advice with regard to the Parties' co-operation under this Chapter;  
(c)  considering and recommending new areas of co-operation on matters covered 
by this Chapter; and  
(d)  discussing other issues related to intellectual property.  
 
2.  The IP Joint Committee shall be co-chaired by senior officials from both KIPO and 
IPOS.  The composition of the IP Joint Committee shall be decided in consultation 
with the co-chairs, subject to mutual agreement between the Parties. The IP Joint 
Committee may meet at the same time as when the Parties meet for the review under 
Article 22.1. 
 