 
 
CHAPTER 5  
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
certificate of origin means respective forms used for purposes of claiming preferential 
tariff treatment in the importing Party, certifying that an exported good qualifies as an 
originating good in accordance with Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin), on the basis of 
documentary evidence or reliable information; 
 
certification body means a body referred to in Annex 5A; 
 
customs administration means the competent authority that is responsible under the 
law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations;  
 
exporter means a person located in the territory of a Party from where a good is 
exported by such a person; 
 
importer means a person located in the territory of a Party where a good is imported by 
such a person; 
 
identical goods means "identical goods" as defined in the Customs Valuation 
Agreement; 
 
producer is as defined in Article 4.1; 
 
production is as defined in Article 4.1; 
 
Cost and Production Statement means a declaration made by the producer, in the 
calculation of the regional value content, the HS tariff classifications of the product and 
its non-originating material used, to determine the originating status of the good. The 
declaration should be signed by a designated authority, generally the managing director 
or accountant of the company. The declaration may be made by the importer or exporter, 
 
if he or she has pertinent information to the production of the good. Notwithstanding the 
above, the producer shall not be required to provide the information to the importer or 
the exporter;  
 
value means value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or 
for purposes of applying Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin); 
 
Declaration for Preference means an application for claiming preferential tariff 
treatment declared, on the basis of a certificate of origin or any other documentary 
evidence of origin, by an importer to the customs administration as part of the import 
application that an imported good qualifies as an originating good in accordance with 
Chapter 4. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.2 : CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
1.   The Parties shall adopt two respective forms of the certificate of origin as set out 
in Annex 5B and Annex 5C, which may be revised by agreement between the Parties.  
 
2.   The respective certificate of origin, referred to in paragraph 1, shall be issued by 
the certification bodies of the exporting Party. 
 
3.   The issued certificate of origin shall be valid for twelve (12) months from the date 
of issue. 
 
4.   Each Party shall inform, through its customs administration, the other Party of the 
names and addresses of the authorised signatories issuing this certificate of origin and 
shall provide specimen impressions of signatures and official seals used by such 
signatories. Any change in names, addresses, signatures or official seals shall be 
promptly notified to the other Party.  
 
5.   Each Party shall: 
 
(a) 
require an exporter in its territory to complete and sign an application for 
certificate of origin for any good which an importer may claim preferential 
tariff treatment on importation of the good into the territory of the other 
Party; and  
 
 
(b) 
provide that where an exporter in its territory is not the producer of the good, 
the exporter may complete and sign an application for a certificate of origin 
on the basis of: 
(i) 
the exporter’s knowledge that the good qualifies as an originating 
good; or 
(ii) the exporter’s reasonable reliance on the producer’s written 
representation that the good qualifies as an originating good. 
 
6.   The certificate of origin shall be issued in the English language. 
 
7.   Each Party shall provide that a certificate of origin that has been issued by 
authorised body designated by each Party is applicable to a single importation of a good 
into its territory. 
 
8.   In cases where a certificate of origin has not been issued at the time of exportation 
or soon thereafter due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid causes, the 
certificate of origin may be issued retrospectively but not later than one year from the 
date of shipment. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.3 : CLAIMS FOR PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT 
 
1. 
Each Party shall require an importer in its territory that claims preferential tariff 
treatment for a good imported into its territory from the territory of the other Party to: 
 
(a) 
make a declaration for preference as part of the import application prescribed 
by its legislation, based on importer’s knowledge or information including a 
valid certificate of origin, that the good qualifies as an originating good; 
(b) 
submit the certificate of origin or other documentary evidence of origin at 
the time of the declaration referred to in subparagraph (a), to its customs 
administration upon request; and 
(c) 
promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any duties owing, where the 
importer has reason to believe that a certificate of origin on which a 
declaration was based contains information that is incorrect. 
 
2.   Each Party shall provide that the importing Party applies preferential tariff 
 
treatment only in cases where an importer proves the accuracy of origin of the imported 
goods through documentary evidence or any other relevant information in accordance 
with its laws and regulations. 
 
3.  A Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to an imported good if the importer 
fails to comply with requirements of this Chapter. 
 
4. 
The importing Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment to goods imported 
after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, in cases where the importer does not 
have the certificate of origin or other documentary evidence of origin at the time of 
importation, provided that:  
 
(a) 
the importer had, at the time of importation, indicated to the customs 
administration of the importing Party his intention to claim preferential tariff 
treatment; and 
(b) 
the certificate of origin or other documentary evidence of origin is submitted 
to its customs administration within such period from the date of payment of 
customs duties in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations in the 
importing Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.4 : OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO EXPORTATIONS 
 
1.   Each Party shall provide that an exporter or a producer in its territory shall submit 
a copy of the certificate of origin or other documentary evidence of origin to its customs 
administration upon request. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide that a false statement by an exporter or a producer in its 
territory that a good to be exported to the territory of the other Party qualifies as an 
originating good shall be penalised for a contravention of its customs laws and 
regulations regarding the making of a false statement or representation. Furthermore, 
each Party may apply such measures as the circumstances may warrant where an 
exporter or a producer in its territory fails to comply with any requirement of this 
Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.5 : RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that an exporter and a producer in its territory that has 
obtained a certificate of origin shall maintain in its territory, for five (5) years after the 
date on which the certificate of origin was issued or for such longer period as the Party 
may specify, all records relating to the origin of a good for which preferential tariff 
treatment was claimed in the territory of the other Party, including records associated 
with: 
 
(a) 
the purchase of, cost of, value of, shipping of, and payment for, the good that 
is exported from its territory; 
(b) 
the sourcing of, the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all 
materials, including neutral elements, used in the production of the good that 
is exported from its territory; and 
(c) 
the production of the good in the form in which the good is exported from its 
territory. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide that an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for 
a good imported into the Party's territory shall maintain in that territory, for five (5) 
years after the date of importation of the good or for such longer period as the Party 
may specify, such documentation, including a copy of the certificate of origin, as the 
Party may require relating to the importation of the good.     
 
3. 
The records to be maintained in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 shall include 
electronic records and shall be maintained in accordance with the domestic laws and 
practices of each Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.6 : WAIVER OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1(b) of Article 5.3, a certificate of origin shall not be 
required for: 
 
(a) 
an importation of a good whose aggregate customs value does not exceed 
USD 1,000 or its equivalent amount in the Party’s currency, or such higher 
amount as it may establish; or  
(b) 
an importation of a good into the territory of the importing Party, for which 
 
the importing Party has waived the requirement for a certificate of origin in 
accordance with its domestic laws and practices;  
 
 
provided that the importation does not form part of one or more importations that 
may reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the purpose of 
avoiding the certification requirements of Articles 5.2 and 5.3. 
 
2. 
The importing Party may request the importer in paragraph 1 to provide relevant 
documents to certify that the good qualifies as an originating good. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.7 : VERIFICATIONS FOR PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT 
 
1. 
For the purposes of determining whether a good imported into its territory from 
the territory of the other Party is eligible for preferential tariff treatment, the importing 
Party may, through its customs administration, conduct a verification, which may be in 
sequence, by means of:  
 
(a) 
request for a certificate of origin from the importer; 
(b) 
request for Cost and Production Statement and information from the 
importer for cases where the importer is able to prepare it on the basis of the 
importer’s own documentary evidence or information;  
(c) 
request for Cost and Production Statement and information from an exporter 
or a producer in the territory of the other Party through the other Party’s 
customs administration; 
(d) 
visit to the premises of an exporter or a producer in the territory of the other 
Party to review the records referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 5.5 and 
observe the facilities used in the production of the good, or to that effect any 
facilities used in the production of the materials; or 
(e) 
such other procedure as the Parties may agree to. 
 
2. 
The importer, exporter or producer that receives a written request pursuant to 
subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of paragraph 1 shall answer and return it within a period of 
thirty (30) days from the date on which it was received.  During this period, the 
importer, exporter or producer may have one opportunity to make a written request to 
the Party conducting the verification for an extension of the answering period, for a 
period not exceeding thirty (30) days. 
 
 
3. 
In the case where the importer, exporter, or producer does not return the written 
request for information made by the importing Party within the given period or its 
extension, or that the information provided is false or incomplete, the Party may deny 
preferential tariff treatment.  
 
4. 
Prior to conducting a verification visit pursuant to subparagraph 1(d), a Party shall, 
through its customs administration: 
 
(a) 
deliver a written notification of its intention to conduct the visit to: 
(i) 
the exporter or producer whose premises are to be visited; and 
(ii) the customs administration of the other Party; and 
(b) 
obtain the written consent of the exporter or producer whose premises are to 
be visited. 
 
5. 
Where an exporter or producer has not given its written consent to a proposed 
verification visit within thirty (30) days from the receipt of notification pursuant to 
paragraph 4, the notifying Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to the relevant 
good. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall provide that, upon receipt of notification pursuant to paragraph 4, 
such an exporter or producer may, within fifteen (15) days of receiving the notification, 
have one opportunity to request to the Party conducting the verification for a 
postponement of the proposed verification visit, for a period not exceeding sixty (60) 
days. This extension shall be notified to the customs administration of the importing and 
exporting Parties. 
 
7. 
A Party shall not deny preferential tariff treatment to a good solely because a 
verification visit was postponed pursuant to paragraph 6. 
 
8. 
After the conclusion of a verification visit, the Party conducting the verification, 
shall provide the exporter or producer whose good was verified, with a written 
determination of whether the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment, based on 
the relevant law and findings of fact. 
 
9. 
Where verifications by a Party show that an exporter or producer repeatedly 
makes false or unsupported representations that a good imported into the Party’s 
 
territory qualifies as an originating good, the Party may suspend the preferential tariff 
treatment to be accorded to subsequent shipment of identical good exported or produced 
by such a person until that person establishes that the shipment complies with Chapter 4 
(Rules of Origin), in accordance with its domestic laws, regulations or practices.  The 
importing Party shall inform the customs administration of the exporting Party on the 
evidence and details of the suspension made. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.8 : ADVANCE RULINGS 
 
1. 
Prior to the importation of a good into its territory, each Party, through its customs 
administration, shall provide for the issuance of written advance rulings to an importer 
of the good in its territory or to an exporter or producer of the good in the other Party’s 
territory concerning tariff classification, questions arising from the application of the 
Customs Valuation Agreement and country of origin so as to determine whether the 
good qualifies as an originating good. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures for the issuance of advance rulings, 
including: 
 
(a) 
the provision that an importer or its agent in its territory or an exporter or 
producer or their agent in the territory of the other Party may request such a 
ruling prior to the importation in question; 
(b) 
a detailed description of the information required to process a request for an 
advance ruling; and 
(c) 
the provision that the advance ruling be based on the facts and circumstances 
presented by the person requesting the ruling. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall provide that its customs administrations: 
 
(a) 
may request, at any time during the course of evaluating an application for 
an advance ruling, additional information necessary to evaluate the 
application; 
(b) 
shall issue the advance ruling expeditiously, and in any case within ninety 
(90) days of obtaining all necessary information; and 
(c) 
shall provide, upon request of the person who requested the advance ruling, 
a full explanation of the reasons for the ruling. 
 
 
4. 
The importing Party may modify or revoke the issued ruling: 
 
(a) 
if the ruling was based on an error of fact; 
(b) 
if there is a change in the material facts or circumstances on which the ruling 
was based; 
(c) 
to conform with an amendment to this Agreement; or  
(d) 
to conform with a judicial or administration decision or a change in its 
domestic laws and regulations. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall provide that any modification or revocation of an advance ruling 
is effective on the date on which the modification or revocation is issued, or on such a 
later date as may be specified therein, and shall not be applied to importations of a good 
that have occurred prior to that date, unless the person to whom the advance ruling was 
issued has not acted in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
  
6. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 5, the issuing Party shall postpone the effective date of 
such modification or revocation for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days where the 
person to whom the advance ruling was issued demonstrates that it has relied in good 
faith to its detriment on that ruling. 
 
7. 
Each Party shall provide that where it issues an advance ruling to a person that has 
misrepresented or omitted material facts or circumstances or failed to act in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the ruling, the Party may impose penalties or deny the 
preferential tariff treatment as the circumstances may warrant. 
 
8. 
A good that is subject to an origin verification process or any instance of review or 
appeal in the territory of one of the Parties may not be the subject of an advance ruling. 
  
9. 
Subject to paragraph 10, each Party shall apply an advance ruling to importations 
into its territory of the relevant good from the date of its issuance or from such later date 
as may be specified in the ruling.  
 
10. The importing Party shall apply the advance ruling for three (3) years from the 
date of issuance of the ruling. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.9 : DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each Party may, notwithstanding  
the requirements of Articles 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.7 and any other legal requirements 
imposed under its law have been satisfied, deny the applicable preferential tariff 
treatment to an originating good imported into its territory: 
 
(a) 
if the declared origin of the imported good is not supported by documentary 
evidence presented by an importer in its territory, or an exporter or a 
producer in the territory of the other Party; 
(b) 
if an exporter or a producer in the territory of the other Party does not allow 
the customs administration of the importing Party access to information 
required to make a determination of whether the goods or the materials is 
originating by the following or other means: 
(i) 
denial of access to its records and/or documents;  
(ii) failure to respond to a cost and production statement or information 
requested; or 
(iii) failure to maintain records or documentation relevant to determine the 
origin of the good in accordance with the requirement of this Chapter; 
(c) 
if, where the good is shipped through or transshipped in the territory of a 
country that is not a Party under this Agreement, the importer of the good 
does not provide, on the request of that Party's customs administration: 
(i) 
a copy of the customs control documents that indicate, to the 
satisfaction of the importing Party’s customs administration, that the 
goods remained under customs control while in the territory of such 
non-Parties; 
(ii) any other information given by the customs administration of such 
non-Parties or other relevant entities, which evidences that they have 
not undergone, in such non-Parties, operation other than unloading, 
reloading, crating, packing, repacking or any other operation necessary 
to keep them in good condition; or 
(iii) any other information or commercial documents given by the importer 
which evidence that they have not undergone, in such non-Parties, 
operation other than unloading, reloading, crating, packing, repacking 
or any other operation necessary to keep them in good condition; or 
(d) 
if, within thirty (30) days after the request of the customs administration of 
the importing Party, the producer, exporter or importer of a good, which has 
 
undergone processes of production or operation outside the territory of a 
Party, fails to submit all the necessary documentary evidence to prove that 
the good satisfies all the requirements set out in Article 4.4, including that 
has been obtained from the performer of the processes of production or 
operation outside the territory of the Party.  Notwithstanding the above, the 
producer, exporter or importer of a good may have one opportunity to make 
a written request to the customs administration of the importing Party for an 
extension of the submission period, for a period not exceeding thirty (30) 
days. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.10 : TEMPORARY ADMISSION AND GOODS IN TRANSIT 
 
1. 
Each Party shall continue to facilitate the procedures for the temporary admission 
of goods traded between the Parties in accordance with the Customs Convention on the 
A.T.A. Carnet for the Temporary Admission of Goods.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall continue to facilitate customs clearance of goods in transit from 
or to the territory of the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.11 : REVIEW AND APPEAL 
 
1. 
Each Party shall grant substantially the same rights of review and appeal of 
determinations of origin and advance rulings by its customs administration, as it 
provides to importers in its territory, to any person: 
 
(a) 
who has obtained a certificate of origin or completed a cost and production 
statement for a good that has been the subject of a determination of origin 
under this Chapter; or 
(b) 
who has received an advance ruling pursuant to Article 5.8. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide that the rights of review and appeal referred to in 
paragraph 1 shall include access to: 
 
 
(a) 
at least one level of administrative review5-1 independent of the official or 
office responsible for the determination under review; and 
(b) 
in accordance with its domestic law, judicial or quasi-judicial review of the 
determination or decision taken at the final level of administrative review5-2. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.12 : PENALTIES 
 
 
Each Party shall maintain measures imposing criminal or administrative penalties, 
whether solely or in combination, for violations of its laws and regulations relating to 
this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.13 : CUSTOMS CO-OPERATION 
 
 
The Parties shall co-operate through their respective customs administrations on: 
 
(a) 
Verification of Origin: 
(i) 
The Parties shall co-operate through their respective customs 
administrations in the origin verification process of a good, for which 
the customs administration of the importing Party may request the 
other Party’s customs administrations to co-operate in this process of 
verification in its own territory; and 
(ii) A Party may, if it considers necessary, station customs liaison officers 
in the local embassy to work with the host government, for information 
exchange pertaining to origin verification; 
(b) 
Paperless Customs Clearance: 
(i) 
The Parties shall, as they deem fit, simplify and streamline customs 
procedures through the domestic integration of customs systems with 
other controlling agencies, with a view to enhancing paperless customs 
clearance; 
(ii) The Parties shall endeavour to provide an electronic environment that 
                                             
5-1 For Singapore, the level of administrative review may include the Ministry supervising the Customs 
administration. 
5-2 The review of the determination or decision taken at the final level of administrative review in 
Singapore may take the form of a common law judicial review. 
 
supports business transactions between their respective customs 
administrations and their trading communities; and 
 
(iii) The Parties shall exchange views and information on realising and 
promoting paperless customs clearance between their respective 
customs administrations and their trading communities; 
(c) 
Risk Management: 
(i) 
The Parties shall adopt risk management approach in its customs 
activities based on its identified risk of goods in order to facilitate the 
clearance of low risk consignments, while focusing its inspection 
activities on high-risk goods; and 
(ii) The Parties shall exchange information on risk management techniques 
in the performance of their customs procedures; 
(d) 
Sharing of Best Practices and Information: 
(i) 
The Parties may, as they deem fit, organise training programmes in 
customs-related issues, which should include training for customs 
officials as well as users that directly participate in customs 
procedures; and 
(ii) The Parties may, as they deem fit, facilitate initiatives for the exchange 
of information on best practices in relation to customs procedures and 
matters in accordance with their respective domestic customs laws; and 
(e) 
Transparency: 
(i) 
Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations, guidelines, 
procedures, and administrative rulings governing customs matters are 
promptly published, either on the Internet or in print form; 
(ii) Each Party shall designate, establish, and maintain one or more inquiry 
points to address inquiries from interested persons pertaining to 
customs matters, and shall make available on the Internet information 
concerning procedures for making such inquiries; and 
(iii) For the purposes of certainty, nothing in this Article or in any part of 
this Agreement shall require any Party to publish law enforcement 
procedures and internal operational guidelines including those related 
to conducting risk analysis and targeting methodologies. 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.14 : IMPLEMENTATION OF OBLIGATIONS 
 
1. 
The provisions in this Chapter must be implemented by the Parties by the time that 
this Agreement enters into force.  
 
2.   Each Party must implement all its obligations through the institution of legal or 
administrative changes and where necessary amend its domestic laws to support the 
implementation of the obligations undertaken. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.15 : CUSTOMS CONTACT POINTS AND AD HOC CUSTOMS COMMITTEE 
 
1. 
Each Party shall discharge all its obligations that are undertaken in accordance 
with this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall designate the contact point set out in Annex 5D for all matters 
relating to this Chapter and Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin). 
 
3. 
Upon the receipt of any matter raised by the customs administration of a Party, the 
customs administration of the other Party shall assign its own experts to look into the 
matter and to respond with its findings and proposed solution for resolving the matter 
within a reasonable time. 
 
4. 
The Parties shall endeavour to resolve any matter raised under this Article through 
consultations between contact points. If the matter cannot be so resolved, the matter 
shall be referred to a customs committee established on an ad hoc basis pursuant to 
Article 22.1. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.16 : CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to furnish or allow 
access to confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede law 
enforcement, be contrary to the public interest, or prejudice the legitimate commercial 
interests of particular enterprises, public or private.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall, in accordance with its domestic laws, maintain the 
 
confidentiality of information collected pursuant to this Chapter and protect it from 
disclosure that could prejudice the competitive position of the persons providing the 
information. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.17 : REVIEW 
 
 
The Parties shall review the certification system agreed under this Chapter for 
issuing the certificate of origin at the review as provided in Article 22.1. 
 
 
 
 
