ANNEX 13A: TEMPORARY ENTRY OF BUSINESS PERSONS 
 
SECTION 1: BUSINESS VISITORS 
 
1.  Each Party shall grant temporary entry to business visitors without requiring that 
person  to  obtain  an  employment  authorisation,  provided  that  the  business  person 
otherwise complies with existing immigration measures applicable to temporary entry, on 
presentation of:  
 
(a)  proof of nationality, permanent residency or citizenship of a Party;  
(b)  documentation demonstrating that the business person will be so engaged 
and describing the purpose of entry; and  
(c)  evidence demonstrating that the proposed business activity is international in 
scope and that the business person is not seeking to enter the local labour 
market. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide that a business person may satisfy the requirements of 
paragraph 1(c) by demonstrating that:  
 
(a)  the primary source of remuneration for the proposed business activity is 
outside the territory of the Party granting temporary entry; and 
(b)  the business person's principal place of business and the actual place of 
accrual of profits, at least predominantly, remain outside such a territory. 
   
3.  Neither Party may:  
 
(a)  as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require prior approval 
procedures, petitions, labour market testing, or other procedures of similar 
effect; or  
(b)  impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry 
under paragraph 1. 
 
 
SECTION 2: TRADERS AND INVESTORS 
 
1.  Each Party shall grant temporary entry and provide confirming documentation to a 
business person seeking to:  
 
(a)  carry on substantial trade in goods or services principally between the territory 
of the Party of which the business person is a national and the territory of the 
other Party into which entry is sought, or  
(b)  blish, develop, administer or provide advice or key technical services to the 
operation  of  an  investment  to which the  business  person  or  the  business 
person's  enterprise  has  committed,  or  is  in  the  process  of  committing,  a 
substantial amount of capital,  
 
in a capacity that is supervisory or executive, or involves essential skills, provided 
that  the  business  person  otherwise  complies  with  existing  immigration  measures 
applicable to temporary entry.    2 
 
2.  Neither Party may:  
 
(a)   as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require labour market 
testing, or other procedures of similar effect; or  
(b)   impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry under 
paragraph 1. 
 
 
SECTION 3: INTRA-CORPORATE TRANSFEREES 
 
1.  Each Party shall grant temporary entry and provide confirming documentation to a 
business  person  employed  by  a  service  supplier,  investor  or  enterprise  of  a  Party 
established in the territory of the other Party through a branch, subsidiary or affiliate 
thereof, in a capacity that is managerial, executive or involves specialised knowledge, as 
defined  in  relation  to  intra-corporate  transferees  in  a  Party’s  Schedule  of  Specific 
Commitments  to  GATS,  provided  that  the  business  person  otherwise  complies  with 
existing immigration measures applicable to temporary entry.  A Party may require the 
business person to have been employed by the enterprise for not less than one (1) year 
immediately preceding the date of the application for admission.  
 
2.  Neither Party may:  
 
(a)   as a condition for temporary entry under paragraph 1, require labour market 
testing, or other procedures of similar effect; or  
(b)  impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary entry 
under paragraph 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
   3 
APPENDIX 13A.1 : DURATION OF STAY  
 
For Korea: 
 
1.   Business visitors who enter Korea under Section I of Annex 13A will be granted a 
period of stay of up to ninety (90) days.  
 
2.   Entry for investors and traders who enter Korea under Section II of Annex 13A will 
be granted a period of stay of up to two (2) years. The period of stay may be extended for 
subsequent periods up to a total of eight (8) years provided the conditions on which they 
are based remain in effect.  Further extensions beyond eight (8) years may be possible. 
 
3.   Entry for intra-corporate transferees who enter Korea under Section III of Annex 
13A will be granted a period of up to two (2) years. The period of stay may be extended 
for subsequent periods up to a total of eight (8) years provided the conditions on which it 
is based remain in effect.  Further extensions beyond eight (8) years may be possible. 
 
4.  Business persons of Singapore who enter Korea under any of the categories set out 
in Annex 13A may freely enter and leave Korea without re-entry permission during the 
permitted period of sojourn on the basis of reciprocity. 
 
5.  Business persons of Singapore who intend to stay over ninety (90) days in Korea 
shall register the aliens at the competent immigration office. 
 
 
For Singapore: 
 
1.   Upon arrival, short-term business visitors will be granted a period of stay of up to 
ninety (90) days.  
 
2.  Entry for traders and investors is for a period of up to two (2) years, and the period 
may be extended for subsequent periods up to a total of eight (8) years provided the 
conditions on which they are based remain in effect.  Further extensions beyond eight (8) 
years may be possible. 
 
3.  Entry for intra-corporate transferees is for a period of up to two (2) years, and the 
period may be extended for subsequent periods up to a total of eight (8) years provided 
the conditions on which they are based remain in effect.  Further extensions beyond eight 
(8) years may be possible. 
  
4.  Business persons of Korea who enter Singapore under any of the categories set out 
in Annex 13A may freely enter and leave Singapore without re-entry permission during 
the permitted period of sojourn on the basis of reciprocity. 
 