 
 
CHAPTER 11 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
cost-oriented means based on cost, and may include a reasonable profit, and may 
involve different cost methodologies for different facilities or services; 
 
end-user means a final consumer of or subscriber to a public telecommunications 
service, including a service supplier but excluding a supplier of public 
telecommunications transport network or services; 
 
essential facilities means facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or 
service that: 
 
(a)  are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of 
suppliers; and 
(b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide 
a service; 
  
facilities-based suppliers means suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services that are: 
 
(a) 
for Korea, telecommunications carriers provided for in Article 5 of the 
Telecommunications Business Act; and  
(b) 
for Singapore, Facilities-Based Operators; 
 
major supplier means a supplier of basic telecommunications services that has the 
ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) 
in the relevant market for public telecommunications transport network or services as a 
result of: 
 
(a) 
control over essential facilities; or 
 
(b) 
use of its position in the market; 
 
network element means a facility or equipment used in the provision of a public 
telecommunications service, including features, functions, and capabilities that are 
provided by means of such facility or equipment; 
 
non-discriminatory means treatment no less favourable than that accorded to any other 
user of like public telecommunications transport networks or services in like 
circumstances; 
 
number portability means the ability of end-users of public telecommunications 
transport network or services to retain existing telephone numbers without impairment 
of quality, reliability, or convenience when switching between like suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport network or services; 
 
public telecommunications transport network means public telecommunications 
infrastructure that permits telecommunications between defined network termination 
points;  
 
public telecommunications transport network or 
services 
means 
public 
telecommunications transport network and/or public telecommunications transport 
services;   
 
public telecommunications transport service means any telecommunications 
transport service required by a Party, explicitly or in effect, to be offered to the public 
generally, including telegraph, telephone, telex and data transmission, that typically 
involves the real-time transmission of customer-supplied information between two or 
more points without any end-to-end change in the form or content of the customer's 
information;  
 
service supplier means any person that supplies a service; 
 
telecommunications means the transmission and reception of signals by any 
electromagnetic means; and 
 
user means service consumers and service suppliers. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.2 : SCOPE AND COVERAGE11-1 
 
1. 
This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party that affect 
access to and use of, and the regulation of public telecommunications transport 
networks and services. 
 
2. 
This Chapter does not apply to any measure adopted or maintained by a Party 
relating to cable or broadcast distribution of radio or television programming. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to: 
 
(a) 
require a Party to authorise a service supplier of the other Party to establish, 
construct, acquire, lease, operate or provide telecommunications transport 
networks or services; or 
(b) 
require a Party (or require a Party to compel any service supplier) to 
establish, construct, acquire, lease, operate or provide telecommunications 
transport networks or services not offered to the public generally. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.3 :  ACCESS TO AND USE OF PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS TRANSPORT 
NETWORKS AND SERVICES 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party have access to and 
use of any public telecommunications transport network and service, including private 
leased circuits, offered in its territory or across its borders on reasonable, non-
discriminatory, timely and transparent terms and conditions, including as those set out in 
paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party are permitted to: 
 
(a) 
purchase or lease, and attach terminal or other equipment that interfaces with 
the public telecommunications transport network; 
                                             
11-1 The obligations of a Party in this Chapter shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner to 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport network or services of both Parties. 
 
 
(b) 
interconnect leased or owned circuits with public telecommunications 
transport networks and services in the territory, of that Party, or with circuits 
leased or owned by another service supplier; 
(c) 
perform switching, signaling and processing functions;  
(d) 
use operating protocols of their choice, other than as necessary to ensure the 
availability of telecommunications transport networks and services to the 
public generally; and 
(e) 
provide services to individual or multiple end-users over any leased or 
owned circuit(s) to the extent that the scope and type of such services are not 
inconsistent with each Party’s domestic laws and regulations.  
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party may use public 
telecommunications transport networks and services for the movement of information in 
its territory or across its borders, including for intra-corporate communications, and for 
access to information contained in databases or otherwise stored in machine-readable 
form in the territory of the other Party.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a Party may take such measures as are 
necessary to ensure the security and confidentiality of messages, or to protect the 
privacy of personal data of end-users, subject to the requirement that such measures are 
not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable 
discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade in services. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall ensure that no condition is imposed on access to and use of public 
telecommunications transport networks and services, other than that necessary to: 
 
(a) 
safeguard the public service responsibilities of suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks and services, in particular their 
ability to make their networks or services available to the public generally; 
or 
(b) 
protect the technical integrity of public telecommunications transport 
networks and services. 
 
6. 
Provided that they satisfy the criteria set out in paragraph 5, conditions for access 
to and use of public telecommunications transport networks and services may include: 
 
(a) 
a requirement to use specified technical interfaces, including interface 
 
protocols, for interconnection with such networks or services; 
(b) 
requirements, where necessary, for the inter-operability of such services;  
(c) 
type approval of terminal or other equipment which interfaces with the 
network and technical requirements relating to the attachment of such 
equipment to such networks; or  
(d) 
notification, registration and licensing. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.4 : CONDUCT OF MAJOR SUPPLIERS 
 
Treatment by Major Suppliers 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that any major supplier in its territory accords facilities-
based suppliers, licensed in its territory, of the other Party treatment no less favourable 
than such major supplier accords to itself, its subsidiaries, its affiliates, or any non-
affiliated service supplier, provided they are facilities-based suppliers, regarding: 
 
(a) 
the 
availability, 
provisioning, 
rates, 
or 
quality 
of 
like 
public 
telecommunications transport network or services; and  
(b) 
the availability of technical interfaces necessary for interconnection. 
 
When necessary, a Party shall assess such treatment on the basis of whether such 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport network or services, subsidiaries, 
affiliates, and non-affiliated service suppliers are in like circumstances. 
 
Competitive Safeguards 
 
2. 
(a) 
Each Party shall maintain appropriate measures for the purpose of 
preventing suppliers of public telecommunications transport network or 
services who, alone or together, are a major supplier in its territory from 
engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of paragraph (a), anti-competitive practices include: 
(i) 
engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidisation; 
(ii) using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive 
results;  
(iii) not making available, on a timely basis, to suppliers of public 
 
telecommunications 
transport 
network 
or 
services, 
technical 
information about essential facilities and commercially relevant 
information 
that 
is necessary 
for 
them 
to 
provide public 
telecommunications transport network or services; and  
(iv) pricing services in a manner that gives rise to unfair competition.  
 
Unbundling of Network Elements 
 
3. 
(a)  Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide to 
facilities-based suppliers, licensed in its territory, of the other Party access to 
network elements for the provision of public telecommunications transport 
network or services at any technically feasible point, on an unbundled basis, 
in a timely fashion; and on terms, conditions, and cost-oriented rates that are 
reasonable, transparent, and non-discriminatory. 
 
(b) 
Each Party may determine, in accordance with its domestic laws and 
regulations, which network elements it requires major suppliers in its 
territory to provide access to in accordance with paragraph (a) on the basis 
of the technical feasibility of unbundling and the state of competition in the 
relevant market. 
 
Co-Location 
 
4. 
(a) 
Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide to 
facilities-based suppliers, licensed in its territory, of the other Party physical 
co-location of equipment necessary for interconnection or access to 
unbundled network elements in a timely fashion and on terms, conditions, 
and cost-oriented rates that are reasonable, transparent, and non-
discriminatory. 
 
(b) 
Where physical co-location under paragraph (a) is not practical for technical 
reasons or because of space limitations, each Party shall ensure that major 
suppliers co-operate with facilities-based suppliers to find alternatives, 
which could include site inspections of co-location premises, in accordance 
with each Party’s domestic laws and regulations.  
 
(c) 
Each Party may determine, in accordance with its domestic laws and 
 
regulations, which premises in its territory shall be subject to paragraphs (a) 
and (b). 
 
Resale 
 
5. 
(a)  Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory do not impose 
unreasonable or discriminatory conditions, limitations or rates on the resale 
of public telecommunications transport network or services that the major 
supplier provides at retail to end-users.  
 
 
(b) 
Each Party may determine, in accordance with its domestic laws and 
regulations, the type and scope of resale in its territory. 
 
Poles, Ducts, and Conduits 
 
6. 
(a) 
Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide access to 
poles, ducts, conduits, or any other structures deemed necessary by the Party, 
which are owned or controlled by such major suppliers to facilities-based 
suppliers, licensed in its territory, of the other Party: 
 
(i)  in a timely fashion; and 
 
(ii)  on terms, conditions, and cost-oriented rates that are reasonable, 
transparent, and non-discriminatory. 
  
(b)  Each Party may determine, in accordance with its domestic laws and 
regulations, the poles, ducts, conduits or other structures to which it requires 
major suppliers in its territory to provide access under paragraph (a) on the 
basis of the state of competition in the relevant market. 
 
Number Portability 
 
7. 
Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide number 
portability, for those services designated by that Party, to the extent technically feasible, 
on a timely basis and on reasonable terms and conditions. 
 
 
 
Interconnection 
 
8. 
(a) 
General Terms and Conditions 
 
 
 Interconnection to be Ensured 
 
 
Each Party shall ensure interconnection between a facilities-based supplier and 
any other facilities-based supplier or a services-based supplier to the extent 
provided for in its laws and regulations. 
 
 
 Interconnection with Major Suppliers 
 
 
 Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier is required to provide 
interconnection at any technically feasible point in the network. Such 
interconnection is provided: 
 
(i)  
under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical 
standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less 
favourable than that provided for its own like services, or for like 
services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for like services of its 
subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
 
(ii)  in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards 
and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, 
reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently 
unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or 
facilities that it does not require for the services to be provided; and 
 
(iii) 
upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points 
offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost 
of construction of necessary additional facilities. 
 
(b)  Transparency of interconnection arrangements 
 
Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier will make publicly available either its 
interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer. 
 
 
(c)  Public Availability of the Procedures for Interconnection Negotiations 
 
Each Party shall make publicly available the applicable procedures for 
interconnection negotiations with major suppliers in its territory. 
 
(d) 
Public Availability of Interconnection Agreements Concluded with Major 
Suppliers 
 
(i)  
Each Party shall require major suppliers in its territory to file all their 
interconnection agreements with its telecommunications regulatory 
body. 
 
(ii)  Each 
Party 
shall 
make 
available 
to 
suppliers 
of 
public 
telecommunications transport network or services which are seeking 
interconnection, interconnection agreements between a major supplier 
in its territory and any other supplier of public telecommunications 
transport network or services in such territory. 
 
(e)  Resolution of Interconnection Disputes 
 
Each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
network or services of the other Party, that have requested interconnection with a 
major supplier in the Party’s territory have recourse to a telecommunications 
regulatory body to resolve disputes regarding the terms, conditions, and rates for 
interconnection within a reasonable and publicly available period of time. 
 
Provisioning and Pricing of Leased Circuits Services11-2 
 
9. 
Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers of leased circuits services in its 
territory provide service suppliers of the other Party leased circuits services that are 
public telecommunications transport network or services, on terms and conditions, and 
at rates that are reasonable, non-discriminatory, timely, and transparent. 
 
                                             
11-2  The obligation under this article is not an obligation to provide leased circuits as an unbundled 
network element. 
  
 
ARTICLE 11.5 : INDEPENDENT REGULATORS 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory body is separate 
from, and, not accountable to, any supplier of public telecommunications transport 
network or services.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that the decisions of, and procedures used by its 
telecommunications regulatory body are impartial with respect to all market participants.  
 
 
ARTICLE 11.6 : UNIVERSAL SERVICE 
 
Each Party shall administer any universal service obligation that it maintains in a 
transparent, nondiscriminatory, and competitively neutral manner and shall ensure that 
its universal service obligation is not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of 
universal service that it has defined. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.7 : LICENSING PROCESS 
 
1. 
When a Party requires a supplier of public telecommunications transport network 
or services to have a licence, the Party shall make publicly available: 
 
(a) 
all the licensing criteria and procedures it applies; 
(b) 
the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an 
application for a licence; and 
(c) 
the terms and conditions of all licences. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that an applicant receives, upon request, the reasons for 
the denial of a licence. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.8 : ALLOCATION AND USE OF SCARCE RESOURCES11-3 
                                             
11-3 The Parties understand that decisions on allocating and assigning spectrum, and frequency 
management are not measures that are per se inconsistent with Article 9.5 and Article 10.7. Accordingly, 
each Party retains the right to exercise its spectrum and frequency management policies, which may affect 
 
 
1. 
Each Party shall administer its procedures for the allocation and use of scarce 
resources, including frequencies, numbers, and rights of way, in an objective, timely, 
transparent, and non-discriminatory fashion. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall make publicly available the current state of allocated frequency 
bands but shall not be required to provide detailed identification of frequencies assigned 
or allocated by each government for specific government uses. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.9 : ENFORCEMENT 
 
Each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory body maintains 
appropriate procedures and authority to enforce domestic measures relating to the 
obligations under this Chapter. Such procedures and authority shall include the ability to 
impose effective sanctions, which may include financial penalties, corrective orders, or 
modification, suspension, and revocation of licences. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.10 : RESOLUTION OF DOMESTIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS DISPUTES 
 
Recourse 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services of the other Party have timely recourse to a telecommunications 
regulatory body or other relevant body to resolve disputes arising under domestic 
measures addressing a matter set out in this Chapter. 
 
Reconsideration 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that any supplier of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services aggrieved by the determination or decision of the 
telecommunications regulatory body may petition that body for reconsideration of that 
                                                                                                                                  
the number of suppliers of public telecommunications services, provided that this is done in a manner that 
is consistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Parties also retain the right to allocate frequency 
bands taking into account existing and future needs. 
 
determination or decision.  Neither Party may permit such a petition to constitute 
grounds for non-compliance with such determination or decision of the 
telecommunications regulatory body unless an appropriate authority stays such 
determination or decision. 
 
Appeal 
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure that any supplier of public telecommunications transport 
networks 
or 
services 
aggrieved 
by 
a 
determination 
or 
decision 
of 
the 
telecommunications regulatory body has the opportunity to appeal such determination 
or decision to an independent judicial or administrative authority.  
 
 
ARTICLE 11.11 : TRANSPARENCY 
 
Each Party shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
rulemakings, 
including 
the 
basis 
for 
such 
rulemakings, 
of 
its 
telecommunications regulatory body are published or otherwise made 
available to interested persons in a reasonable period of time; 
(b) 
interested persons are provided with adequate advance public notice of and 
the opportunity to comment on any rulemaking proposed by the 
telecommunications regulatory body11-4; and   
(c) 
its measures relating to public telecommunications transport network or 
services are made publicly available, including: 
(i) 
tariffs and other terms and conditions of service; 
(ii) specifications of technical interfaces; 
(iii) conditions applying to attachment of terminal or other equipment 
 to the public telecommunications transport network; 
(iv) notification, permit, registration, or licensing requirements, if any; and 
(v) 
information on bodies responsible for preparing, amending, and 
 adopting standards- related measures is made publicly available. 
 
 
                                             
11-4 The obligations under paragraph (b) will be applied in accordance with each Party’s domestic laws 
and regulations. 
 
ARTICLE 11.12 : RELATION TO OTHER CHAPTERS 
 
 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another Chapter in this 
Agreement, this Chapter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.13 : RELATION TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS AND AGREEMENTS 
 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of international standards for global 
compatibility and inter-operability of telecommunication networks or services and 
undertake to promote those standards through the work of relevant international bodies, 
including the International Telecommunication Union and the International 
Organization for Standardization. 
 
 
 
 
