ANNEX 9B : Reservations for Future Measures 
 
Section 1 : Headnotes 
 
1.   Where appropriate, reservations are referenced to the Provisional Central Product 
Classification (CPC) as set out in Statistical Office of the United Nations Statistical 
Papers, Series M, No. 77, Provisional Central Product Classification, 1991 (UN CPC 
code). 
 
2.   This Annex sets out the reservations taken by each Party for sectors, subsectors or 
activities for which it may maintain existing or adopt new measures that do not conform 
with obligations imposed by Articles 9.3, 9.4, 9.5, and Articles 10.4, 10.7 and 10.8 . 
 
3.   The sectors, subsectors or activities to which a reservation applies shall be stated 
in the Description of Reservation element. In the interpretation of a reservation, all 
elements of the reservation shall be considered in their totality. 
 
4.   Local Presence and National Treatment are separate disciplines and a measure that 
is only inconsistent with Local Presence need not be reserved against National Treatment. 
 
5.  If the non-conforming measures listed in Annex 9B are measures of the central 
government and are delegated to a local government after the entry into force of this 
Agreement, the local government, thereafter, shall have the same right as the central 
government did to maintain or adopt any measure with respect to delegated sectors. 
 
6.  The reservations and commitments relating to trade in services shall be read together 
with  the  relevant  guidelines,  stated  in  GATT  documents  MTN.GNS/W/164  dated  3 
September 1993 and MTN.GNS/W/164 Add.1 dated 30 November 1993. 
 
7.  Each reservation sets out the following elements:  
(a)  Sector refers to the general sector in which the reservation is taken;  
(b)  Sub-Sector refers to the specific sector in which the reservation is taken;  
(c)  Industry Classification refers, where applicable, to the activity covered 
by the reservation according to the UN CPC code or domestic industry 
classification codes;  
(d)  Type of Reservation specifies the obligation (National Treatment, Market 
Access, Local Presence, Performances Requirements, Senior Management 
and Board of Directors) for which a reservation is taken;  
(e)  Description of Reservation sets out the scope of the sector, sub-sector or 
activities to which the reservation applies; and  
(f)  Existing  Measures identifies, for transparency purposes only, existing 
laws, regulations, rules, procedures, decisions, administrative actions or 
any other forms in relation to the non-conforming measures that apply to 
the  sector,  sub-sector  or  activities  covered  by  the  reservation.    The 
measures stipulated therein are not exhaustive. 
 
 
 
   2 
 
Section 2: Schedule of Korea 
 
Sector:  All sectors 
   
Sub-Sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Market Access, Local Presence 
   
Description:  Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with 
respect to the supply of a service by the presence of natural 
persons,  or  other  movement  of  natural  persons,  including 
immigration, entry or temporary stay, subject to the provisions of 
the Chapter 12(Temporary Entry of Business Persons) 
 
   
Existing Measure:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   3 
 
Sector:  All sectors 
   
Sub-Sector:  Capital Transactions of Non-Residents 
   
Industry Classification:   
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment  
   
Description:  Investment 
 
A non-resident is subject to authorization from the Minister of 
Finance and Economy or the Governor of the Bank of Korea in 
the following cases: 
 
(a)    when receiving won-denominated loans or  borrowing 
won-denominated  securities  from  a  resident,  which 
exceeds  a  certain  amount(1  billion  won  for  won-
denominated  loans  and  5  billion  won  for  won-
denominated  securities)    pursuant  to  the    Foreign 
Exchange Transaction Act; and 
 
(b)   when  issuing  won-denominated  securities  with  short-
term maturities. 
 
Residents  are  subject  to  authorization  from  theMinister  of 
Finance and Economy or the Governor of the Bank of Korea in 
cases when non-residents grant short-term financial credit to a 
financially unsound domestic enterprise designated in the Foreign 
Exchange Transaction Act, or grant financial credits to domestic 
individuals or non-profit institutions, which are guaranteed by or 
are based on collaterals from other residents. 
 
Authorization is required from the Governor of the Bank of Korea 
in  case  a  non-resident  receives  foreign  currency  denominated 
financial credits, guarantees or collaterals from residents as set 
out in the Foreign Exchange Transaction Act. 
 
Authorization is required from the Governor of the Bank of Korea 
for a non-resident to make a certain transaction by means of 
derivatives  that  is  not  permitted  under  the  Foreign  Exchange 
Transaction Act. 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 6277, The Foreign Exchange Transaction Act, 
Oct. 23, 2000 
   4 
 
Sector:  All sectors 
   
Sub-Sector:  Defense industry 
   
Industry Classification:    
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance  Requirements,  Senior  Management  and 
Boards of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with  respect  to  cross  border  trade  in  services  and 
investments in the defense industry. 
 
Foreign investors who intend to acquire the outstanding 
shares  (stipulated  in  the  article  2  of  the  Foreign 
Investment Promotion Act) of defense industry other than 
the newly issued ones(the enterprise stipulated in Article 2 
of the Act on Special measures for Defense Industry) shall 
obtain a prior permission from the Minister of Commerce, 
industry and Energy. 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7039 The Article 6 of the Foreign Investment 
Promotion Act, Dec. 31, 2003 
Law  No.  5559  Article  6  of  the  Foreign  Investment 
Promotion Act, Sept.16, 1998 
   5 
 
Sector:  All Sectors 
   
Sub-Sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment  
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors  
   
Description:  Investment 
 
With respect to the transfer or disposal of stocks or assets held in 
an existing state-owned or government entity in such industries as 
electricity and gas, Korea reserves the right to prohibit or restrict 
the ownership of such interests or assets. 
 
Korea also reserves the right to prohibit or limit the rights of 
Singaporean investors and investors of non-Parties to control a 
company or investment created in such a process.  
 
In connection with such transfer or disposal, Korea may adopt or 
maintain any measures related to performance requirements and 
the nationality of senior management and members of the Board 
of Directors. 
 
For the purposes of this reservation: 
 
(a)  any measure maintained or adopted after the effective 
  date of this Agreement which, at the time of the transfer 
  or  disposal,  prohibits  or  restricts  ownership  of  such 
  interest or assets or imposes the nationality requirements 
  set forth herein shall be considered to be a measure in 
  force; and 
 
(b)  a  "state-owned  company”  shall  mean  any  company 
owned or controlled by Korea by means of an interest 
share in the ownership thereof, and shall include any 
company  created  after  the  effective  date  of  this 
Agreement for the sole   purpose  of  selling  or 
disposing its interest share in the capital or assets of an 
existing state or government entity. 
 
   
Existing Measure:   
 
 
 
   6 
 
Sector:  All sectors 
   
Sub-Sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment 
   
Description:  Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with 
respect to land acquisition by foreigners. 
 
Present measures, inter alia, are as follows: 
 
(a)  When a foreign national, foreign legal entity, foreign 
government  or  an  international  organization 
(“foreigner”) has signed a contract for acquisition of 
land  within  the  territory  of  Korea,  a  report  of  the 
acquisition must be made to the head of the shi/kun/ku 
within  60  days  from  the  conclusion  of  the  contract.  
Penalties are assessed in cases of violations.  
 
(b)  In cases of land designated for national defense, cultural 
protection  and  ecosystem/wildlife  protection,  among 
others, permission from the head of the shi/kun/ku is 
required prior to the conclusion of the contract for land 
acquisition.    Contracts  concluded  without  such 
permission are invalid and punishable. 
 
(c)  Any  land  acquired  by  a  foreigner  by  means  of 
inheritance, auction, or any cause other than contracts 
shall also be reported to the head of shi/kun/ku within 6 
months of the acquisition.  Violations are assessed with 
penalty fees. 
 
(d)  When a national, a juristic person or an organization of 
Korea with ownership of land changes nationality and 
wishes to maintain ownership of the land, a report must 
be made to the head of shi/kun/ku within 6 months from 
the change of nationality. 
   
Existing Measure:  Articles 4, 5, 6 of the Foreigner’s Land Acquisition Act (Law No. 
7167, Feb. 9, 2004)   7 
 
Sector:  All Sectors 
   
Sub-Sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   
   
Type of Reservation:   Market Access, National Treatment, Local Presence, Performance 
Requirements, Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
   
Description:  Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea  reserves  the  right  to  adopt  or  maintain    any  measure 
affecting the full or partial devolvement to the private sector of 
services provided in the exercise of governmental authority 
 
   
Existing Measure:     8 
 
Sector:  Business Services 
   
Sub-Sector:  Agricultural and manufacturing services 
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 88 Agricultural and manufacturing services 
(except CPC 883, 8847, 8854, 8855, 8856, 8857, 8852) 
   
Type of Reservation:   National  Treatment,  Local  Presence,  Market  Access, 
Performance  Requirement,  Senior  Management  and 
Board of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with respect to agricultural and manufacturing services. 
 
   
Existing Measure   
   9 
 
Sector:  Arms and explosives 
   
Sub-Sector:   
   
Industry Classification:    
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
affecting  the  arms  and  explosives  sector.  The 
manufacture,  use,  sale,  storage,  transport,  importation, 
exportation and possession of arms and explosives are 
regulated for protection of vital security interests.  
   
Existing Measure   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   10 
Sector:  Business Services 
   
Sub-Sector:  Credit Reporting Services 
   
Industry Classification:    
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
affecting ths supply of credit reporting services. 
   
Existing Measure   
 
   11 
 
Sector:  Business and Production Services 
Sub-Sector:   
Industry Classification:   CPC 82400  Insolvency and Receivership Services 
Type of Reservation:  
National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access, 
Performance Requirement, Senior Management and Board of 
Directors  
 
 
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
In  order  to  organize  and  manage  a  corporate  restructuring        
cooperative  under  the  Industrial  Development  Act  or  be           
eligible for the special provision for bond issuance limit under 
the  Industrial  Development  Act  and  tax  reduction  or                
exemption under the tax laws while conducting investment      
business such as business acquisition, normalization or sale,    
etc. with  companies subject to  corporate restructuring,  one     
must establish a chusik hoesa under the Commercial Code     
with paid-in capital of 7 billion won or more and be registered 
with the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Energy as a        
corporate restructuring company (“CRC”). 
 
For acquisition of insolvent companies and investment in a     
normalization  business,  a  CRC  may  invest  with  its  own            
account  or  through  the  management  of  the  account  of  the        
corporate restructuring cooperative (the “CR Fund”). 
 
For protection of the investors, the CRC, which manages its    
own account and the CR Fund account, should be established  
as a chusik hoesa under the Commercial Code with a certain   
minimum paid-in capital and be subject to an audit by an         
independent  outside  auditor  pursuant  to  the  Law  on  the           
External  Audit  of  Stock  Companies.    Also,  the  financial          
statements of the CRC such as the balance sheet, etc. should   
be disclosed. 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
relating to investment company for corporate restructuring.  
 
 
 
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7092, Article 14 of the Industrial Development Act 
and Article 9 of the Enforcement  Decree of the  Industrial 
Development Act, Jan 20, 2004 
Law No. 6891, Article 3, 8, 9, 12 of Corporate Restructuring 
Investment Company Act, May 29, 2003 
   12 
 
Sector:   Business Services/ Construction Services 
   
Sub-Sector :   
   
Industry Classification:  CPC 82    Real Estate Services 
CPC 8674  Urban Planning & Landscape Architecture 
CPC 51*    Construction Services 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
relating to real estate services (development and supply, 
management, sales and rentals). 
 
Present measures, inter alia, are as follows. 
 
A person who intends to operate rental housing business   
shall  meet  the  housing  ownership  standards,  etc. 
stipulated in the Rental Housing Act, its Enforcement 
Decree, and its Enforcement Regulations and shall follow 
the  proper  procedures  to  register  with  the  head  of 
shi/gun/gu. 
 
In the case of rental housing units constructed with the 
assistance of the Housing Fund or the use of public land,   
the level of deposit and/or rent to be charged shall be         
determined in accordance with government guidelines.     
To change the length of the lease contract, the level of        
deposit or the rent, a report must be filed with the head of  
shi/gun/gu.  
 
Residential  site  development  projects  shall  be                     
implemented by an entity designated by the Minister of    
Construction  and  Transportation.  Only  the  national    
government, local autonomous governments, Korea Land 
Corporation, Korea National Housing Corporation, local   
public corporations under the Local Public Enterprises     
Act, and public-private joint corporations established for    
developing  housing  sites  shall  be  entitled  to  be 
designated. 
 
A person who intends to operate a housing construction      13 
business or a site preparation business that exceeds a         
particular scale shall establish an office and register with   
the  Minister  of  Construction  and  Transportation  in     
accordance  with  provisions  of  the  Housing  Act,  its            
Enforcement Decree, and its Enforcement Regulations. 
 
 
A  registered  business  that  meets  related  criteria                
(performance  capability,  past  housing  construction             
records,  etc.)  under  the  Enforcement  Decree  of  the            
Housing Act may be recognized as a contractor under the 
Framework Act on the Construction Industry and may       
execute  housing  construction  projects.    In  this  case,           
however, the size of the project shall be restricted in           
accordance with the relevant regulations. 
 
 
   
Existing Measure:  Article 6, 14, 16 of the Rental Housing Act (Law No. 6916, 
May 29, 2003) 
Article 7 of the Housing Site Development Promotion Act 
(Law No. 6916, May 29, 2003) 
Articles 9 and 12 of the Housing Act (Law No. 7159, Jan. 
29,2004) 
 
 
 
   14 
 
Sector:  Business Service 
   
Sub-Sector:  Other Business Services 
   
Industry  CPC 88442 Printing, Publishing Services 
Classification:  
   
Type of  National Treatment, Market Access, , Performance Requirements,  
Reservation:   Senior Management and Boards of Directors  
   
Description:  Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Republic of Korea reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure 
affecting  the  publishing  or  printing  of  periodical*,  including  but  not 
limited  to,  restrictions  on  shareholding,  marketing  and  management 
control. 
 
Present measures, inter alia, are as follows: 
 
Filing  a  report  with  the  Minister  of  Culture  and  Tourism  should  be 
required when the publication of a periodical is financed, in any part, by 
foreign funds. 
 
As for publication of a periodical, it is mandatory to submit a document 
proving the fact of filing with the Minister of Commerce, Industry and 
Energy when its property is financed by a foreigner, a foreign legal entity 
or a foreign organization. 
 
Any natural or juridical person who falls under either of the following 
subparagraphs shall not serve as a publisher or editor of a periodical in 
Korea 
(a)  a person who is not of Korean nationality 
(b)  a person who has no domicile in Korea 
 
A foreign government, a foreign juristic person, a foreign organization, or 
a  legal  entity  or  legal  organization  whose  representative  is  a  person  
falling under either of the subparagraphs (a) or (b) above can not publish a 
daily newspaper or general weekly newspaper, unless such periodical is 
published for the sole purpose of disseminating among its members. 
 
A foreigner, foreign juridical entity or foreign organization which holds 
stocks or shares in excess of the rates falling under either of the following 
subparagraphs shall not publish a periodical in Korea: 
(a)  For daily newspapers: 30 per cent 
(b)  For all other periodicals: 50 per cent 
   15 
Any person who intends to establish a branch or district office of foreign 
periodicals in Korea shall obtain permission from the Minister of Culture 
and Tourism 
 
Existing  Law No. 6905, Articles 3, 4, 9, 15 of the Registration etc. Periodicals Act, 
Measure:   May. 29, 2003 
Presidential  Decree  No.  18153,  Articles  4,  18,  19,  20,  21  of  its 
Enforcement Decree, Dec. 3, 2003  
   
 
 
*' Periodicals mean newspapers, magazines and other publications which are published continually under 
the same title at least twice a year as defined in Article 2 of the Registration etc. Periodicals Act, May. 
29, 2003   16 
 
Sector:  Community, Personal and Social Services  
   
Sub-Sector:  Services furnished by trade unions  
   
Industry Classification:  CPC 952 Services furnished by trade unions 
   
Type of Reservation:   Market Access, National Treatment, Local Presence, Performance 
Requirements, Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
   
Description:  Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting services provided by trade unions.   
 
   
Existing Measure:   
   17 
 
Sector:   Communication Services 
   
Sub-sector :    Broadcasting Services 
   
Industry Classification:    
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance  Requirements,  Senior  Management  and 
Boards of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with respect to  
 
(a)  broadcasting  services*  including  measures  with 
respect  to  planning,  licensing  and  spectrum 
management, and including  
  -  services offered in Korea 
  -  international  services  originating  from 
Korea. 
 
(b)  foreign  investment  in  the  broadcasting  services 
sector,  including  the  one-way  satellite 
transmission  direct  to  Home(DTH),  direct 
broadcasting  satellite(DBS)  television  services, 
data broadcasting services and mobile multi-media 
broadcasting services(i.e. DMB) 
 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7213, Article 8,9,12,13~18,37,69~78, and 86 of 
the Broadcasting Act, Mar.22, 2004. 
 
 * Broadcasting services are defined as the transmission of the broadcast programmes which are planned, 
produced and scheduled of all types, transmitted by telecommunication intended to be received by public 
(including recipients under individual contract). 
 
 
Sector:   Communication Services 
   
Sub-Sector :  Postal Services 
   
Industry Classification:  CPC 7511 Postal Services 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to legislate(adopt) or maintain any   18 
measure relating to Postal Services operation and provision 
by foreigners. 
 
The current measures are as follows :  
 
The Korean Postal Authority reserves exclusive rights for 
collecting,  processing  and  delivering  domestic  and 
international letters.  
 
Services  by  private  couriers  relating  to  the  commercial 
documents below are excluded from this reservation. 
 
(a)  unsealed  freight-attached  documents  or  dispatch 
notes 
(b)  trade-related documents 
(c)  foreign capital or technology related documents 
(d)  foreign exchange or its related documents 
(e)  commercial documents which are delivered between 
a  headquarters  of  a  company  and  its  branch  or 
between branches of a company, and whose delivery 
must be made in 12 hours after being dispatched  
 
The Postal Services are not the area in which foreigners 
could  invest.  This  reservation  does  not  include  those 
services  mentioned  in  the  preceding  paragraph. 
(Notification No. 1999-58 of the Ministry of Commerce, 
Industry and Energy, and Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the 
Foreign Investment Promotion Act, Act No. 6643, Jan. 26, 
2002) 
 
The Korean Postal Authority reserves the right to determine 
Postal Prohibited Goods. 
 
The Korean Postal Authority reserves the rights to set postal 
rates and to issue postage stamps and to determine the scope 
of postage-free mail and to discount postage. 
   
Existing Measure:  Article 2 of the Postal Service Act, Act No. 6196, Jan.21, 
2000  
Notification  No.  1999-58  of  the  Ministry  of  Commerce, 
Industry and Energy, and Paragraph 4th of Article 4 of the 
Foreign Investment Promotion Act, Act No. 6643, Jan. 26, 
2002  
Article 17 of the Postal Service Act, Act No. 6196, Jan.21, 
2000 
Articles 19, 21, 26 and 26-2 of the Postal Service Act, Act   19 
No. 6196, Jan.21, 2000 
   
   
   20 
 
Sector:  Distribution Services 
   
Sub-sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 621(excluding 62111) Commission agents' services 
CPC 622 Wholesale trade services 
   
Type of Reservation:   National  Treatment,  Local  Presence,  Market  Access, 
Performance Requirement, Senior Management and Board 
of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt and maintain any measure 
with respect to commission agents’ services of agricultural 
raw materials, live animals, food products, beverages, and 
wholesale  trade  services  of  grain,  meat,  poultry,  grain 
powder, red ginseng, fertilizer.  
 
   
Existing Measure:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sector:  Education Services 
   
Sub-sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   Primary  Education  Services  (CPC  921),  Secondary 
Education Services (CPC 922) Higher Education Services 
(CPC923),  Adult  Education  Services  (CPC924),  Other 
Education Services (CPC929) 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Market Access 
     21 
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
related to the provision of a service from the territory of a 
Party  into  the  territory  of  the  other  Party  for  primary 
education,  secondary  education,  higher  education,  health 
and  medical-related  adult  education,  degree-conferring 
adult  education,  adult  education  via  broadcasting, 
vocational training services provided by institutions under 
authority  delegated  or  financially  supported  by  the 
government and other education services. 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt and maintain any measure 
related to the provision of a service in the territory of a 
Party by a person of that Party to a person of the other Party 
for primary and secondary school students. 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
related  to  the  establishment  of  primary  and  secondary 
education  institutions,  teachers'  universities,  school  of 
education,  universities  via  broadcasting  and 
communications, cyber universities, all health and medical  
related  higher  education  institutions,  health  and  medical  
related  adult  education  institutions,  adult  education 
institutions conferring or leading to degrees, adult education 
institutions via broadcasting, life-long education facilities 
via  information  and  technology,  vocational  training 
institutions  with  authority  delegated  or  financially 
supported by government and other education institutions 
(excluding language education) by foreign nationals.  
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
related to natural persons who render education services 
including  teachers  and  ancillary  personnel  providing 
educational  services  in  primary  education,  secondary 
education,  vocational  and  technical  education,  higher 
education, adult education and other education and training 
services 
   
Existing Measure:  Article 3 of Private School Act 
Article 5 - 1 of Presidential Regulations on Study Abroad 
Article 16 of Higher Education Act 
 
   22 
 
Sector:  Electric energy 
   
Sub-Sector:  Electric  Power  Generation  other  than  Nuclear  Power 
Generation 
Electric Power Transmission, Distribution & Sales 
Electric Work 
An Electrical Safety Management Agency 
Inspection of Electrical Facilities 
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 17100 Electrical energy 
CPC 5164 Electrical work 
CPC 5165 Insulation work(electrical wiring, water, beat, 
sound) 
CPC 52243 Power lines 
CPC 87909 Other business services 
CPC 88700 Services incidental to energy distribution 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance  Requirements,  Senior  Management  and 
Board of Directors 
   
   
Description:  Cross-Border Trade in Services & investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with respect to privatization of the electric power industry 
including generation, transmission, distribution and sales. 
 
A foreign investor cannot own 40% or more of KEPCO’s 
shares or stocks, or is banned from becoming the largest 
shareholder. 
 
Foreign investment in transmission, distribution and sales 
businesses  is  allowed  only  when  the  investment 
percentage is 50% or less. The largest shareholder must be 
a Korean citizen 
 
Foreign investors are prohibited from operating a electric 
power  business,  including  power  generation, 
transmission, distribution and sales business. 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with respect to power transmission and distribution and 
sales from neighboring countries.  
 
Foreigners  are  required  to  get  capital,  manpower, 
equipment, and etc, which are provided by the Electricity 
Business  Act,  if  they  hope  to  run  Electrical  Safety 
Management Agency.   23 
 
Foreigners  are  not  prohibited  to  do  an  Inspection  of 
Electrical Facilities  which  are  run  by  Korea  Electrical 
Safety Corporation by the Electricity Business Act. 
 
   
  Law  No.  7114,  The  Article  203  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Act, Jan. 29, 2004 
Presidential Decree No. 18146, The Article 87.2 of its 
Enforcement Decree, Nov. 29, 2003 
Law  No.  6656,  Article  7,  73-5,  78  of  the  Electricity 
business Act . Feb . 4.2002 
Law No. 7039, The Article 4, 5 of the Foreign Investment 
Promotion Act, Dec. 16, 1998 
Presidential  Decree  No.  18222,  The  Article  5  of  its 
Enforcement Decree, Jan. 13, 2004 
Regulations No. 02-115, The Article 5 of Regulations on 
Foreign Investment and Technology Inducement, Nov. 26, 
2002 
 
Existing Measure:   
 
 
 
Sector:   Environmental Services 
   
Sub-sector:    Supply, Distribution and Management Services of Potable Water  
Wastewater Reclamation and Reuse Services  
Sewage Services (except industrial wastewater)  
Refuse Disposal Services (except industrial wastes) 
Sanitation and Similar Services  
Soil and Groundwater Contamination Reduction/Reclamation 
Services  
Nature and Landscape Protection Services (except environmental 
impact assessment services)  
New Environmental Services (except air quality monitoring/control, 
water  quality  monitoring,  waste  water  (sewage)  treatment,  waste 
collection/disposal,  noise  vibration  monitoring  and  abatement, 
environmental impact assessment)  
   
Industry  CPC 18000 Natural Water  
Classification:   CPC 71390 Transportation of other goods via pipeline (except 
petroleum and natural gas)  
CPC 94010* Sewage services  
CPC 94020* Refuse disposal services 
CPC 94030 Sanitation and similar services 
CPC 94060* Nature and landscape protection services 
CPC 94090* Other environmental protection services n.e.c.    24 
   
Type of  Market  Access,  National  Treatment,  Local  Presence,  Performance 
Reservation:   Requirements 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure related to 
environmental  services,  set  out  in  this  sub-sector  and  industry 
classification. 
   
Existing  - 
Measure: 
 
 
CPC 94010* excludes collection and treatment services of industrial waste water 
CPC 94020* excludes collection, transport and disposal services of industrial refuse 
CPC 94060* & 94090* exclude environmental impact assessment services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   25 
 
Sector:  Business Services 
   
Sub-sector:  Fishing-Related Activities 
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 882   Services Incidental to Fishing 
   
Type of Reservation:   National  Treatment,  Local  Presence,  Market  Access, 
Performance Requirement, Senior Management and Board 
of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to control the fishery activities of 
foreign nationals or foreign legal entities in the Exclusive 
Economic Zone of Korea.  
 
The  head  of  the  local  government(metropolitan  city  / 
province or city / country / district) shall consult with the 
Minister of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries in granting a 
license or permit for fishing to a foreign national or legal 
entity.  
 
If  a  foreign  national  or  foreign  legal  entity  makes  and 
investment in a corporation established pursuant to Acts of 
Korea or in a citizen of Korea for the purpose of running a 
fishing  industry,  and  where  the  investment  ratio  in  the 
relevant corporation or citizen is more than 50 percent, the 
head of the local government (metropolitan city / province 
or city / country / district) shall consult in advance with the 
Minister of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries.  
 
If a State prohibits or restricts the acquisition or rights of 
fisheries  within  that  State  to  a  Korean  citizen  or  a 
corporation or association established pursuant to relevant 
Korean laws, identical or similar prohibitions or restrictions 
may be imposed on the acquisition of fishing rights within 
Korea.  
 
A foreign national or legal entity may not conduct fishing 
activities in any zone set out by the Presidential Decree for 
the purpose of protecting fishery resources or regulating 
fisheries("special prohibited zones")  
 
To conduct fishing activities in the Exclusive Economic 
Zone that is not designated as a "specific prohibited zone", a 
foreign  national  or  legal  entity  is  required  to  obtain 
authorization for each of its vessel from the Minister of 
Maritime Affairs and Fisheries. The Minister of Maritime 
Affairs  and  Fisheries  examines  whether  the  fisheries   26 
activities for which license is applied overrun the limit of 
the allowable catch determined by the Minister of Maritime 
Affairs and Fisheries under conditions as prescribed by the 
Ordinance  of  the  Minister  of  Maritime  Affairs  and 
Fisheries.  
 
When a foreigner intends to conduct the activities falling 
under  any  of  following  subparagraphs  in  the  Exclusive 
Economic Zone for the purpose of experiment and research 
or educational practice or the other reasons as stipulated by 
the  Ordinance  of  the  Ministry  of  Maritime  Affairs  and 
Fisheries, approval by the Minister of Mariitme Affairs and 
Fisheries  shall  be  obtained  for  each  vessel  under  the 
conditions as prescribed by the Ordinance of the Ministry of 
Maritime Affairs and Fisheries.  
 
(a)  Capture and picking of marine animals and plants  
(b)  Search and gathering related with fisheries  
(c)  Keeping, storage and processing of the catch and 
its products; and  
(d)  Transporting of the catch and its products.  
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 5809 Articles 4, 5, 6, 8 of the Act on the Exercise 
of Sovereign Rights on Foreigner's Fishing, Etc., Within the 
Exclusive Economic Zone, Feb. 5, 1999  
Law No. 5977 Article 5 of the Act on the Fisheries, April 
15, 1999    27 
 
Sector: 
   
Sub-Sector:   28 
 
   
Industry Classification:   CPC  96520  Sports  and  Recreational  Sports  Facility 
Operation Services 
CPC 96492 Gambling and Betting Services  
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance Requirements, 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors  
 
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services & Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with respect to gambling and betting. 
 
Present measures, inter alia, are as follows. 
 
Foreigners are prohibited  from engaging in the casino 
business  admitting any Korean into a casino in Korea 
 
The  Minister  of  Culture  and  Tourism  shall  place 
restrictions upon the casino business when it is deemed 
necessary for the public welfare, maintenance of order or 
sound development of the casino industry. 
 
With  the  exception  of  the  Seoul  Olympic  Sports 
Promotion  Foundation  and  its  entrusted  business 
operators, all persons shall be prohibited from engaging in 
the business of issuing betting ballots or performing any 
similar acts. 
 
For the Bicycle and Motorboat Racing business, with the 
exception  of  the  Seoul  Olympic  Commemoration 
National Health-Sports Promotion Corporation and local   29 
public  corporations,  no  person  or  entity  shall  conduct 
racing or profit-making activities relating to the purchase, 
mediation,  transfer  etc.  of  tickets  in  which  their 
purchasers indicate the possible winner. Also, no person 
or  entity  shall  issue  or  sell  tickets  in  which  their 
purchasers indicate the possible winner (or any similar 
tickets), or give money to those persons who choose the 
winner correctly. 
 
A person who operates a bullfighting facility with the 
permission of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is 
entitled exclusively to bullfighting operations (including 
pari-mutuel betting operations) in Korea. 
 
The Korea Racing Association, exclusively, is entitled to 
horse  racing  operations  (including  pari-mutuel  betting 
operations) in Korea. 
 
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7186, The Article 11 of the Special Act on the 
Assistance to the Development of Abandoned Mine Areas, 
December. 29, 2000  
Presidential  Decree  No.  18108,  The  Article 
12,13,14,15,16 of the Enforcement Decree of the Special 
Act to Revitalize Communities Near Closed Mines, Sep. 
29, 2003 
 
Law No. 6841, Articles 20, 27 of the Tourism Promotion 
Act, Dec.30, 2002  
Presidential  Decree  No.  18082,  Article  28  of  its 
Enforcement Decree of Tourism Promotion Act,  Aug. 6, 
2003  
 
Law No. 7159, Articles 22.2, 22.3, 22.4 of the National 
Sports Promotion Act, Jan. 29, 2004 
Presidential Decree No. 16918, Articles 42.8, 42.9, 42.10 
of its Enforcement Decree, Jul. 27, 2000. 
 
Law No. 7133, Articles 4, 16, 21 of the Bicycle and 
Motorboat Racing Act, Jan. 29, 2004 
Presidential  Decree  No.  16681,  Article  20  of  its 
Enforcement Decree, Dec. 31, 1999 
 
Law No. 6722 Article 7 and 9 of the Traditional Bull 
Fight Law, Aug. 26, 2002 
Law  No.  6572 Article 3  and  48  of  the  Korea  Racing 
Association Law, Dec. 31, 2001 
   
 
   30 
 
Sector:  Gas industry 
   
Sub-Sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 12020 Natural gas, Liquefied or in the gaseous state  
CPC 52241 Long Distance Pipelines 
CPC  61300  Retail  Sales  of  Motor  Fuel(except  oil 
products other than LPG) 
CPC 62271 Wholesale Trade Services of Solid, Liquid 
and Gaseous Fuels and Related Products 
CPC 63297 Retail Sales of Fuel Oil, Bottled Gas, Coal 
and Wood 
CPC 71122 Transportation of Bulk Liquids or Gases 
CPC 71232 Transportation of Bulk Liquids or Gases 
CPC 71310 Transportation of Petroleum and Natural Gas 
CPC 72222 Transportation of Bulk Liquids or Gases 
CPC 74220 Bulk Storage Services of Liquids or Gases 
CPC 88700 Services Incidental to Energy Distribution 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
   
Description:  Cross-Border Trade in Services & investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
concerning the gas industry. 
 
In the gas sector, KOGAS executes the public function 
such as import and wholesale of natural gas, operation of 
the national trunkline. 
 
Plan  of  privatization  in  gaseous  sector,  including  gas 
transportation,  import  and  whole  sales,  is  yet  to  be 
finalized. 
 
The holding of KOGAS stocks is restricted to 15% for 
each individual foreigner, and 30% to all foreigners, so 
that cross-border supply in that sector should be restricted 
likewise. 
 
City gas companies supply natural gas to the end users, 
which is entrusted with public function. 
 
Foreigners  are  required  to  get  permission  for  their 
manufacturing, filling, storage or selling of high pressure 
gases if they hope to run high pressure gas manufacturing, 
filling, storage or selling business in Korea. 
 
Foreigners are required to register their business for  their 
manufacturing  of  high  pressure  gas  cylinders,   31 
refrigerators  or  specified  equipment  if  they  hope  to 
manufacture high pressure gas cylinders, refrigerators or 
specified equipment in Korea. 
 
Those  businesses,  among  foreign  high  pressure  gas 
manufacturers, of which the storage capacity is more than 
the manufacturing capacity stipulated in the Ordinance of 
the  Ministry  of  Commerce,  Industry  and  Energy  shall 
conduct  safety  assessment  on  their  own  facilities  and 
submit the safety improvement report to the government 
office concerned. 
 
Foreigners who hope to run high pressure gas business, 
liquefied petroleum gas business or city gas business in 
Korea  shall  designate  a  qualified  safety  operator  in 
accordance with the high pressure gas safety control law, 
liquefied petroleum gas safety control and business law 
and  city  gas  business  law  and  shall  report  to  the 
government office concerned in case of safety manager 
designation. 
 
Foreigners who hope to install and use high pressure gas 
facility,  liquefied  petroleum  gas  facilities  and  city  gas 
facilities  in  Korea  shall  have  an  inspection  after  the 
completion  of  the  facilities  and  shall  have  periodic 
inspection every 1 to 2 years. 
 
Those facilities, among high pressure gas manufacturing 
facilities and city gas facilities, which have aged more 
than specified years(15) after installation shall get close 
examination or diagnosis from inspection organizations. 
 
Those  foreigners  who  hope  to  put  high  pressure  gas 
cylinders,  refrigerators  or  specified  equipment  in  the 
Korean  market  shall  get  inspection  in  advance  by  the 
government office concerned, and those foreigners who 
continuously use these shall get periodic inspection for re-
qualification. 
 
Those  foreigners  who  manufactured  gas  burners,  gas 
appliances,  etc.  and  hope  to  sell  these  in  the  Korean 
market shall get inspection in advance by the government 
office concerned. 
 
Those foreigners who hope to use high pressure gas more 
than  specified  quantity  shall  report  to  the  government 
office concerned for the use of such gas. 
 
Those foreigners who hope to transport high pressure gas, 
liquefied petroleum gas or city gas in Korea shall comply   32 
with  the  High  Pressure  Gas  Transportation  Standard 
provided by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Commerce, 
Industry and Energy. 
 
Foreigners designated as safety operators of high pressure 
gas facilities, liquefied petroleum gas facilities or city gas 
facilities shall take safety education stipulated in the High 
Pressure Gas Safety Control Law, Liquefied Petroleum 
Safety Control and Business Law and City Gas Business 
Law. 
 
Foreigners who hope to install and use high pressure gas 
facilities,  liquefied  petroleum  gas  facilities  or  city  gas 
facilities  in  Korea  shall  buy  gas  accident  liability 
insurance  stipulated  in  the  High  Pressure  Gas  Safety 
Control Law. 
 
Foreigners  who  hope  to  conduct  inspection  or  re-
inspection of gas facilities and gas appliances shall have 
to be designated as inspection organization in accordance 
with  the  regulations  in  the  High  Pressure  Gas  Safety 
Control Law. 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
with respect to gas transportation, import and whole sales. 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 6863, The Article 19 of the Act on Improvement 
of  Management  Structure  and  Privation  of  Public 
Corporation, Nov 7, 2002 
Law  No.  6841,  The  Article  1  of  the  Korea  Gas 
Corporation Act, Dec 30, 2002 
Law No. 6676, Article 4, 5, 13-, 15, 20, 23 of the High 
Pressure Gas Safety Control Law, March 25, 2002 
Law No. 6976, Article 3, 5, 14, 18, 20, 21, 31, 33 of the 
High Pressure Gas Safety Control Law, Sep 29, 2003 
Law No. 6916, Article 1, 3, 11, 15, 16, 16-2, 16-3, 17, 17-
2, 18-4, 22, 24, 25, 30, 35, 43 of the City Gas Business 
Law, May 27, 2003 
The Article 11 of the Articles of Incorporation of Korea 
Gas Corporation, Mar 30, 2000 
Law No. 6627, The Article 8 of the Petroleum Business 
Act  Mar. 2, 2004 
 
 
 
 
   33 
 
Sector:  Minority Affairs 
   
Sub-sector:   
   
Industry Classification:    
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence 
Performance Requirement  
Senior Management and Boards of Directors  
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
according rights or preferences to socially or economically 
disadvantaged minorities. 
   
Existing Measure:   
   34 
 
Sector:  Nuclear industry 
   
Sub-Sector:  Nuclear Power Generation 
Manufacturing and Supply of Nuclear Fuel 
Radioactive Waste Disposal 
Services Relating to Nuclear Service 
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 13000 Uranium and Thorium Ores and Concentrates 
CPC 33710 Fuel Elements (cartridges), Non-Irradiated, 
for Nuclear Reactors 
CPC 33720 Spent(irradiated) Fuel Elements (cartridges) 
of Nuclear Reactors 
CPC 42310 Nuclear Reactors 
CPC  88450  Manufacture  of  Coke,  Refined  Petroleum 
Products and Nuclear Fuel, on a Fee or Contract Basis 
CPC 94090 Other Environmental Protection Service 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Senior management and board of directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
related to nuclear industry. 
 
Foreign investors are prohibited from operating a nuclear 
power generation business - manufacturing and supply of 
nuclear fuel for nuclear power plants, business related to 
the operation of nuclear plants, and radio active waste 
management. 
 
Foreigners are prohibited from investing in nuclear power 
generation. 
 
The  construction,  operation,  and  quality  test  services 
related  to  nuclear  energy  shall  be  subject  to  the 
authorization of the Minister of Science & Technology.  
 
A foreign vessel equipped with a nuclear reactor shall 
notify,  in  advance,  to  the  Minister  of  Science  and 
Technology to gain access to Korean harbors. 
 
Services  related  to  nuclear  energy  may  be  subject  to 
notification,  registration,  authorization,  and  supervision 
by the Minister of Science & Technology in regards to 
safety measures for such services. 
   
 
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7018, Article 12 of the Electricity Business Act,   35 
Mar 11, 2004 
Law  No.  7039,  Article  4  of  the  Foreign  Investment 
Promotion Act  
Presidential  Decree  No.  18222,  Article  5  of  its 
Enforcement Decree, Jan 13, 2004 
Regulations No. 2002-115, Article 5 of the Regulations on 
Foreign Investment and Technology Inducement, Nov 26, 
2002 
Law No. 6873, Article 11, 21, 33, 34, 43, 57, 64, 76, 86, 
90-4 of the Atomic Energy Act, May 15, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   36 
Sector:   Business Services 
   
Sub-sector:    Professional Services(Legal Services) 
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 861  Legal  Services  (including  arbitration  and 
conciliations services under revised CPC approved by UN 
statistical committee in February 1997) 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Senior Management & Board of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure  
with respect to legal services including those concerning  
ownership,  partnership,  nationality  of  executives  and 
directors and the scope of services to be provided . 
 
Attorneys or judicial scriveners intending to provide legal 
services  in  Korea  must  be  domestically  licensed  and 
registered under the Lawyers Act or Judicial Scriveners Act. 
Their offices must be established  within the jurisdictional 
area of a district court in which they  wish to practice.  
 
Notary publics shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice 
among those qualified under the Notary Public Act. They 
are required to establish  offices within the district covered 
by  a  jurisdictional  area  of  a  district  public  prosecutors’ 
office in which he or she wishes to practice.  
 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 6207 Article 4, 21, 34 and 109 of the Lawyer Act, 
Jan. 28, 2000  
Law No. 6860 Article 4, 7 and 14 of the Judicial Scriveners 
Act, Mar. 12, 2003  
Law No. 5590 Article 10, 11, 12, 16 and 17 of the Notary 
Public Act, Dec. 28, 1998   37 
 
Sector:  Social Services 
   
Sub-sector:   
   
Industry Classification:   CPC 913   Compulsory Social Security Services 
CPC 93   Health and Social Services 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance Requirement 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
related to this sector, provided it is for public purpose. 
 
A medical person who intends to provide medical services 
is required to establish a medical institution in the territory 
of  Korea. For purposes thereof, the term "medical person" 
means doctor, dentist, herb doctor, midwife and nurse who 
have been licensed by the Minister of Health and Welfare. 
 
Medical Services supplied from the territory of a Party into 
the territory of the other Party shall be allowed to between 
medical  persons  mentioned above  and to the support of 
medical knowledge or techniques.   
  
Medical  corporation  should  be  run  in  the  form  of  non-
profit  corporation. 
  
A medical person and a pharmacist can establish only one 
medical institution and one pharmacy, respectively. 
 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7148 Article 1, 2, 30, 30 bis, 44 of the Medical 
Service Act, January 29, 2004 
Presidential  Decree  No.  18084,  Article  18  of  the 
Enforcement Decree of the Medical Services Act, January 
29, 2004 
Law No. 7148 Article 19 of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act, 
January 29, 2004   38 
 
Sector:  Trade Services 
   
Sub-sector:  Distribution Services 
Commission Agents’ Services 
Wholesale Trade Services 
Retailing Services 
Franchising 
   
Industry Classification:    
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance Requirement 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
affecting  the  supply  of  any  products  subject  to  import 
prohibition or import restriction. 
 
Korea reserves the right to modify and/or increase the list 
of products stipulated in the laws, regulations and other 
measures  governing  import  prohibition  or  import 
restriction. 
 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 7009 Article 226 and 234 of the Customs Act, 
December 30, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   39 
Sector:   Transport Services 
   
Sub-Sector :  Land Transport Services and related auxiliary services 
   
Industry Classification:  CPC 711     Service using Railroads 
CPC 712     Land Transport Services 
(ii)  CPC  74       
Support  and  Other 
Auxiliary Services 
CPC  8868          Maintenance  and  Repair  of  Rail  Transport 
Equipment 
CPC  83102    Leasing  or  rental  services  concerning  good 
transport vehicles without operator 
 
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access 
Performance Requirement 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to legislate (adopt) or maintain any 
measure  relating  to  land  transport  (passengers/cargo)  and 
transport support/auxiliary services. 
 
Present measures, inter alia, are as follows: 
 
< Road – Passenger > 
-  A  person  who  intends  to  operate  a  road  passenger 
transport service must obtain a license from mayor of the 
shi or governor of the do (head of local government) 
where the head office will be located.  The license is 
issued based on the economic needs test among other 
criteria for licensing. 
 
-  Intra-city buses, rural buses, and taxi transport services 
are only permitted to operate within the jurisdiction of the 
license-issuing authority. 
 
-  Fares should be set in accordance with standards and the 
range of rates determined by the Minister of Construction 
and Transportation or mayor of shi or governor of do. 
 
 
< Road -- Cargo > 
-  A  person  who  intends  to  operate  a  trucking  transport 
business must register with mayor of the shi or governor 
of the do (head of local government) where the head   40 
office  will  be  located.    If  the  service  area  is  located 
outside of the jurisdiction of the registering office, an 
office must be established in that operating area. 
 
 
< Rail – Passenger & Cargo > 
-  A person who intends to operate a rail transport service 
business  must  obtain  license  from  the  Minister  of 
Construction  and  Transportation  in  accordance  with 
relevant regulations. 
 
-  The  licensing-decision  is  made  based  on  review  of 
standards  that  include  the  level  of  contributions  to 
national industrial development, economic growth, etc. 
 
-  State-owned railroad transport service business shall be 
operated  by  the  Korea  National  Railroad,  which  is 
organized  under  the  Minister  of  Construction  and 
Transportation. 
 
-  The implementation of rail construction project is limited 
to  the  national  government,  local  autonomous 
governments  and  the  Korea  Rail  Network  Authority 
established under the Korea Rail Network Authority Act.   
 
-  The  implementation  of  high-speed  rail  construction 
project  is  limited  to  the  national  government  and  the 
Korea  Rail  Network  Authority  established  under  the 
Korea Rail Network Authority Act. 
 
-  Construction and  maintenance & repair of rail related 
facilities (including for high-speed rail) is performed by a 
rail related facility maintenance authority.  This authority 
is limited to the following persons: 
 
(a)  Maintenance authority stipulated under Article 19 of 
the Framework Act on Rail Industry Promotion. 
(b)  Korea  Rail  Network  Authority  established  in 
accordance  with  Article  20  paragraph  3  of  the 
Framework Act on Rail Industry Promotion. 
(c)  Person  bestowed  with  the  rail  related  facility 
maintenance authority in accordance with Article 26   41 
paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on Rail Industry 
Promotion. 
(d)  Person delegated, entrusted, or bestowed authority to 
execute vicariously the authority bestowed upon any 
entity falling under each sub-paragraph a)~c) above. 
 
 
< Road – Freight Forwarding > 
-  A person who intends to operate motor-freight forwarding 
service business shall establish an office and a place of 
business  meeting  the  requirements  set  in  the  relevant 
regulations and shall register with the mayor of the shi or 
the governor of the do in accordance with standards and 
procedures prescribed by the relevant regulations. 
 
< Rail – Freight Forwarding > 
-  A person who intends to operate rail freight forwarding 
business shall register with the administrator of the Korea 
National Railroad after securing the relevant facilities set 
by relevant regulations. 
   
 
Existing Measure:  Article 5 of the Passenger Transport Service Act (Law No. 
6942, Jul. 25, 2003) 
 
Article 3, 21 of the Trucking Transport Business Act (Law No. 
7100, Jan. 20, 2004) 
 
Article 5 of the Railroad Act (Law No. 7052, Dec. 31, 2003) 
Article 3 of the Licensing Regulation for Private and Exclusive-use 
Railroads (Presidential Decree No. 17816, Dec. 26, 2002) 
Article 6 of the Special Act on the Operation of State-owned   
Railroads (Law No. 17194, Apr. 9, 2001) 
Article 2-3 of the Public Rail Construction Promotion Act (Law 
No. 6956, July 29, 2003) 
Article 4 of the High-speed Rail Construction Promotion Act 
(Law No. 6956, July 29, 2003) 
Articles 3, 19, 20, 21 of the Framework Act for Rail Industry 
Promotion (Law No. 6956, July 29, 2003) 
Article 7 of the Korea Rail Network Authority Act (Law No. 
6956, July 29, 2003)   42 
 
Article 3 of the Rail Freight Forwarding Business Act (Law    
No. 6364, Jan. 16, 2001) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sector:   Transport Services 
   
Sub-Sector :  Transportation by non-sea-going vessels and transportation 
via space 
   
Industry Classification:  CPC 722 Transportation by Non-Sea-Going Vessels 
CPC 733 Transportation Via Space  
   
Type of Reservation:   National Treatment, Local Presence, Market Access, Senior 
Management & Board of Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
relating  to  transportation  by  non-sea-going  vessels  and 
transportation via space. 
   
Existing Measure:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sector:   Transport Services 
   
Sub-Sector :  Warehousing  Business  for  Agricultural,  Fishery  and 
Livestock Products 
   
Industry Classification:  CPC 742 Storage and Warehousing Services 
   
Type of Reservation:   National  Treatment,  Market  Access,  Local  Presence, 
Performance Requirement, Senior Management and Board of 
Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt and maintain any measure 
with regard to grain management services 
   
Existing Measure:  Law No. 6836 Article of Grain Management Act  Dec. 30, 
2002 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   44 
 
Sector:   National  Electronic  System,  including  but  not  limited  to 
Geographical Information System 
   
Sub-Sector :   
   
Industry Classification:   
   
Type of Reservation:   National  Treatment,  Local  Presence,  Market  Access, 
Performance Requirements, Senior Management & Board of 
Directors 
   
Description:   Cross-Border Trade in Services and Investment 
 
Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure 
relating to geographical information system and other value-
added services through the use of this system.. 
 
Korea  also  reserves  the  right  to  adopt  or  maintain  any 
measure affecting the administration and operation of any 
national  electronic  system  which  contains  proprietary 
information  of  the  government  or  information  gathered 
pursuant to regulatory functions and powers. Such measures 
apply to any other national electronic systems that may be 
established in the future.  
 
   
Existing Measure:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   45 
Section 3: Schedule of Singapore 
 
Sector   All 
   
Sub-Sector  -  
 
Industry   -  
Classification  
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation   National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services 
Reservation      
Singapore reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with 
respect to the supply of a service by the presence of natural persons, or 
other movement of natural persons, including immigration, entry or 
temporary stay, subject to the provisions of the Chapter 12 (Temporary 
Entry of Business Persons). 
 
Existing   - 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
Sector  - 
   
Sub-Sector  -  
 
Industry  -  
Classification 
 
Type of  National Treatment  
Reservation   Market Access 
  Local Presence  
Performance Requirements  
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation    
  Singapore reserves the right to adopt and maintain any measure in 
relation to the divestment of the administrator and operator of airports. 
 
Existing   - 
Measures   
 
   46 
 
Sector  All  
 
Sub-Sector  - 
 
Industrial  - 
Classification   
 
Type of  National Treatment 
Reservation  Market Access 
Local Presence  
Performance Requirements  
Senior Management and Board of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to adopt or to maintain any measure in 
relation to the provision of health services by government owned or 
controlled healthcare institutions (including investments in those 
institutions), social security and public training. 
 
Existing   - 
Measures   
   47 
 
 
Sector  All  
 
Sub-Sector  - 
 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation 
 
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting: 
 
(a)  the full or partial devolvement to the private sector of services 
provided in the exercise of governmental authority;  
 
(b)  the divestment of its equity interests in, and/or the assets of, an 
enterprise that is wholly owned by the Singapore government;  
and  
 
(c)  the divestment of its equity interests in, and/or the assets of, an 
enterprise that is partially owned by the Singapore government. 
 
Existing  - 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   48 
 
Sector  Administration and operation of national electronic systems  
  
Sub-Sector  -   
 
Industry  -  
Classification 
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the  administration  and  operation  of  any  national  electronic  system 
which  contains  proprietary  information  of  the  government  or 
information  gathered  pursuant  to  regulatory  functions  and  powers. 
Such  measures  apply  to  existing  national  electronic  systems  like 
TradeNet and Marinet and any other national electronic systems that 
may be established in the future.  
 
Existing  - 
Measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   49 
 
Sector  Arms and explosives 
 
Sub-Sector  - 
 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
  Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure 
affecting the arms and explosives sector.  The manufacture, use, 
sale, storage, transport, importation, exportation and possession of 
arms and explosives are regulated for protection of vital security 
interests. 
 
Existing   Arms and Explosives Act, Cap. 13, Revised Edition 1985 
Measures 
 
   50 
 
Sector   Broadcasting Services  
   
Broadcasting services refers to the scheduling of a series of literary and 
artistic works by a content provider for aural and/or visual reception, 
and for which the content consumer has no choice over the scheduling 
of the series. 
 
 
Sub-Sector  - 
   
Industry   -  
Classification  
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation   National Treatment  
  Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
broadcasting services receivable by Singapore’s domestic audience, to 
international broadcasting services originating from Singapore, and to 
the allocation of spectrum in relation to broadcasting services. 
 
This reservation does not apply to the sole activity of transmitting 
licensed broadcasting services to a final consumer.  
 
Existing  - 
Measures 
 
 
   51 
 
  
Sector  Business Services 
Sub-Sector  Credit Reporting Services 
 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment  
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure affecting 
the supply of credit reporting services.  
 
Existing   - 
Measures 
 
 
   52 
 
Sector  Business Services  
 
Sub-Sector  Real Estate Services  
 
(does not apply to real estate consultancy services, real estate agency 
services,  real  estate  auction  services  and  real  estate  valuation 
services) 
 
Industry  CPC 82 Real Estate Services  
Classification    
  (does  not  apply  to  residential  and  non-residential  property 
management  services  on  a  fee  or  contract  basis,  real  estate 
consultancy services, real estate agency services, real estate auction 
services and real estate valuation services)  
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment  
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure 
Reservation  affecting real estate services.  This includes, but is not limited to, 
measures affecting the ownership, sale, purchase, development and 
management of real estate.   
 
This reservation does not apply to residential and non-residential 
property management services on a fee or contract basis, real estate 
consultancy services, real estate agency services, real estate auction 
services and real estate valuation services. 
 
Existing   Residential Property Act, Cap. 274, 1985 Revised Edition 
Measures  State Lands Act, Cap. 314, 1996 Revised Edition 
Housing and Development Act, Cap. 129, 1997 Revised Edition 
Jurong Town Corporation Act, Cap. 150, 1998 Revised Edition 
Executive Condominium Housing Scheme Act, Cap. 99A, 1997 Revised 
Edition  
 
 
   53 
 
Sector  Business services 
 
Sub-Sector  Armed Escort Services  and armoured car services 
Armed Guard Services  
 
Industry  CPC 87305 Guard Services  
Classification   
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment  
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting the provision of armed escort, armoured car and armed 
guard services.  
 
Existing   Part IX of the Police Force ct, Cap. 235, 1985 Revised Edition. 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   54 
 
Sector  Business services  
  
Sub-Sector  Betting and Gambling Services 
 
Industry   -  
Classification   
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the supply of betting and gambling services.  
 
Existing  Betting Act, Cap. 21, 1985 Revised Edition 
Measures   Common Gaming Houses Act, Cap. 49, 1985 Revised Edition 
  Private Lotteries Act Cap 250 
 
 
   55 
 
Sector   Business - Professional Services  (Legal Services) 
Sub-Sector  - 
 
Industry   - 
Classification  
Type of    Market Access 
Reservation     National Treatment  
  Local Presence 
  Performance Requirements 
  Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the supply of legal services in Singapore. 
 
Existing  - 
Measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   56 
 
Sector  Community, Personal and Social Services  
 
Sub-Sector  Services furnished by trade unions  
 
Industry  CPC 952 Services furnished by trade unions 
Classification    
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
services provided by trade unions.   
 
Existing  Trade Unions Act, Cap. 333, 1985 Revised Edition 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
 
   57 
 
Sector  Defence  
 
Sub-Sector  - 
 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of  National Treatment 
Reservation   
 
Description of  Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure in 
relation to the retention of a controlling interest by the Singapore 
Government in Singapore Technologies Engineering (the Company) 
and/or its successor body, including but not limited to controls over 
the  appointment  and  termination  of  members  of  the  Board  of 
Directors, divestment of equity and dissolution of the Company for 
the purpose of safeguarding the security interest of Singapore.  
  
Existing  - 
Measures  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   58 
 
Sector  Distribution, publishing and printing of newspapers 
   
Newspapers  means  any  physical  publication  containing  news, 
intelligence, reports of occurrences, or any remarks, observations or 
comments relating thereto or to any matter of public interest, printed in 
any language and published for sale or free distribution at intervals not 
exceeding one week. 
 
Sub-Sector  - 
 
 
Industry  -  
Classification  
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment  
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the publishing or printing of newspapers, including but not limited to, 
shareholding limits and management control. 
 
The  distribution  of  any  newspaper,  whether  published  outside  of 
Singapore or in Singapore, shall be subject to the laws of Singapore.   
 
Existing  Newspaper and Printing Presses Act, Cap 206. 1991 Revised Edition 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
 
Sector   Trade Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Distribution Services 
  Commission Agents’ Services 
Wholesale Trade Services 
Retailing Services 
Franchising 
 
Industry   - 
Classification    
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation   National Treatment   59 
  Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the  supply  of  any  products  subject  to  import  prohibition  or  non-
automatic import licensing.  
 
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  modify  and/or  increase  the  list  of 
products  stipulated  in  the  laws,  regulations  and  other  measures 
governing  Singapore’s  import  prohibition  or  non-automatic  import 
licensing regime. 
 
Existing  - 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sector   Educational Services  
   
Sub-Sector  Primary Education Services 
  Secondary Education Services 
 
Industry   CPC 921  Primary Education Services  
Classification   CPC 92210  General Secondary Education Services 
CPC 92220  Higher Secondary Education Services (only applies to 
Junior  colleges  and  pre-university  centres  under  the  Singapore 
educational system)  
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation   National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the supply of primary, general secondary and higher secondary (only 
applies  to  junior  colleges  and  pre-university  centres  under  the 
Singapore  educational  system)  education  services  for  Singapore 
citizens.   60 
 
Existing   Education Act, Cap. 87, 1985 Revised Edition 
Measures  Administrative Guidelines 
 
   61 
 
 
Sector  Health and Social Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector  Medical Services  
  Pharmacy  Services  
 
Industry  CPC 9312 Medical Services  
Classification  -  
   
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation   
   
Description of  Cross–Border Services 
Reservation   
  Singapore reserves the right to adopt or maintain any limits on the 
number of doctors and pharmacists who can practice in Singapore. 
 
Existing   - 
Measures   
 
 
   62 
 
 
Sector  Health and Social Services  
 
Sub-Sector  Services provided by health-related professionals 
 
Industrial  - 
Classification 
 
Type of  National Treatment 
Reservation   
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore reserves the right to adopt or to maintain any measure in 
relation  to  the  recognition  of  educational  and  professional 
qualifications  for  the  purposes  of  admission,  registration  and 
qualification  of  health  related  professionals  such  as  contact  lens 
practitioners,  dentists,  doctors,  nurses,  midwives  and  traditional 
chinese medicine practitioners. 
 
Existing  Contact Lens Practitioner Act, Cap 53A 
Measures  Dentists Act, Cap. 76 
Medical Registration Act, Cap. 174 
Nurses and Midwives Act, Cap 209 
Pharmacists Registration Act, Cap. 230 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act, Act 34 of 2000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   63 
Sector  Sewage and refuse disposal, sanitation and other environmental 
Protection services 
 
Sub-Sector  Waste Water Management, including but not limited to collection, 
disposal and treatment of solid waste and waste water. 
 
Industry  CPC 9401 Sewerage Services  
Classification   
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment  
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation 
 
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting waste water management, including but not limited to the 
collection, treatment and disposal of waste water. 
 
Existing   Code of Practice on Sewerage and Sanitary Works  
Measures  Sewerage and Drainage Act, Cap. 294, 2001 Revised Edition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   64 
 
Sector  Health and Social Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Social Services 
 
Industry  CPC 933 Social Services 
Classification 
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment  
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation 
 
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting the supply of social services. 
 
Existing  - 
Measures   
 
   65 
 
Sector  Post and Telecommunications Services  
 
Sub-Sector  Postal Services 
 
Industry    -  
Classification 
Type of  Market Access 
Reservation  National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
 
Source of  Postal Services Act, Cap. 237A 
Measure  
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment  
Reservation   
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measures 
regarding  postal  services,  including  Singapore  Post  Pte.  Ltd.’s 
exclusive rights to convey letters and  postcards and  perform  all 
incidental services of receiving, collecting, sending, dispatching, and 
delivering of letters and postcards. 
 
Existing   - 
Measures   
 
 
 
 
 
   66 
 
Sector  Post and Telecommunications Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Postal Services – Express Letters 
  Courier Services 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of   Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
  Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure 
that accords treatment to persons of the other Party equivalent to 
any measure adopted or maintained by the other Party affecting 
the supply of express letter and courier services.  
 
Existing Measures  Postal Services Act, Cap. 237A 
 
   67 
 
Sector  Telecommunications Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Telecommunications Services 
 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of   Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
   
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment  
Reservation   
  Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  restrict  foreign  ownership  in 
facilities-based basic telecommunication services up to the same 
foreign ownership limit that Korea sets to its facilities-based basic 
telecommunication  services  in  its  Reservation  for  Existing 
Measures. 
 
Existing Measures  - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   68 
 
Sector  Trade services 
  
Sub-Sector  Supply of potable water for human consumption 
 
Industry  CPC 18000 Natural Water  
Classification   
  The sectors listed above apply only insofar as they relate to the 
supply of potable water.  
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment  
Reservation 
 
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting the supply of potable water.  
 
Existing   Public Utilities Act, Cap. 261, 1996 Revised Edition    
Measures  Public Utilities Act 2001, Act 8 of 2001 
 
 
   69 
 
Sector  Transport services 
 
Sub-Sector  Air Transport Services – Computer Reservation Systems 
 
Industry   -  
Classification    
 
Type of    Market Access  
Reservation   National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
  Performance Requirements 
  Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation    
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  adopt  or  maintain  any  measure 
affecting the supply of computer reservation systems. 
 
Existing  - 
Measures 
 
 
 
   70 
 
Sector  Transport Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Land Transport Services – Public Transport Services, including but 
not limited to Passenger Transportation services by Railway, Urban 
and Suburban Regular Transportation Services, Taxi Services; Bus 
and Rail Station Services and Ticketing Services related to public 
transport services 
 
Public  Transport  Services  are  services  which  are  used  by  and 
accessible to members of the public for the purposes of transporting 
themselves within Singapore.  
 
Industry   -  
Classification   
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment  
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation   
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting the supply of public transport services.  
 
Public  transport  services  are  services  which  are  used  by  and 
accessible to members of the public for the purposes of transporting 
themselves within Singapore.  
 
Existing   Rapid Transit Systems Act, Cap. 263A 
Measures   Land  Transport  Authority  of  Singapore  Act,  Cap.  158A,  1996 
Revised Edition 
Public Transport Council Act, Cap. 259B, 2000 Revised Edition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   71 
Sector  Transport Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Land  Transport  Services  –  Rail  Freight  transportation.  Supporting 
services for rail transport services. 
 
Industry  - 
Classification 
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment  
Reservation   
Singapore  reserves  the  right  to  maintain  or  adopt  any  measure 
affecting the supply of land transport services as set out above.  
 
Existing   - 
Measures  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   72 
 
Sector  Transport services 
 
Sub-Sector  Land Transport Services 
Services Auxiliary to All Modes of Transport 
 
Industry   CPC 742 Storage and warehousing services 
Classification  CPC 748 Freight transport agency services 
  (does not apply to freight forwarding by air) 
CPC 749 Other supporting and auxiliary transport services 
  
Type of    Market Access  
Reservation   National Treatment 
  Local Presence 
  Performance Requirements 
  Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation    
Singapore reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure that 
accords treatment to persons of the other Party equivalent to any 
measure adopted or maintained by the other Party in relation to the 
provision  of  storage  and  warehousing,  freight  forwarding 
(excluding  freight forwarding  by air), inland  trucking,  container 
station, and depot services by persons of Singapore. 
 
Existing  - 
Measures 
 
   73 
 
Sector  Transport Services 
 
Sub-Sector  Maritime  Transport  Services  –  Towing  and  tug  assistance; 
provisioning,  fuelling  and  watering;  garbage  collection  and  ballast 
waste  disposal;  port  captain’s  services;  navigation  aids;  emergency 
repair facilities; anchorage; and other shore-based operational services 
essential  to  ship  operations,  including  communications,  water  and 
electrical supplies. 
 
Industry  - 
Classification   
 
Type of  Market Access  
Reservation  National Treatment 
Local Presence 
Performance Requirements 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
Description of  Cross-Border Services and Investment 
Reservation 
 
Singapore reserves the right to maintain or adopt any measure affecting 
the supply of towing and tug assistance; provisioning, fuelling and 
watering; garbage collection and ballast waste disposal; port captain’s 
services; navigation aids; emergency repair facilities; anchorage; and 
other  shore-based  operational  services  essential  to  ship  operations, 
including communications, water and electrical supplies. 
 
Existing  MPA Act Cap 170A, Section 41 (part VIII) 
Measures   
 
 
 