ANNEX 12 A : SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
Section 1 : Specific Commitments of Singapore 
 
                                             
1 "Licensing is expressed as, and equivalent to, registration for insurance companies and insurance brokers carrying on insurance business in Singapore as provided in Singapore domestic   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
law on insurance. 
 
2 "Licensing is expressed as, and equivalent to, registration for insurance companies and insurance brokers carrying on insurance business in Singapore as provided in Singapore domestic 
law on insurance    3
                                             
3. ."Licensing is expressed as, and equivalent to, registration for insurance companies and insurance brokers carrying on insurance business in Singapore as provided in Singapore domestic 
law on insurance   4  5  6  7  8  9
  (d) Payment and money   1)  Unbound  1)  Unbound   
   transmission services,   2)  None  2)  None 
  including credit, charge and debit  3)  Remittance shops, except where the   3)  None 
cards, travellers cheques and   remittance business is conducted by banks         
bankers' drafts  and merchant banks, are required to be 
  majority owned by Singapore citizens.   10   11 
   12   13 
  -  money market instruments   2)  None  2)  None   
   (including cheques, bills,  3)  Banks and merchant banks are required   3)  None except as indicated for activity  
certificates of deposit)    to set up separate subsidiaries to trade    B(b) above. 
  -  foreign exchange  financial futures for customers. Financial 
  -  derivative products,   futures brokers can establish as branches or 
    including financial  subsidiaries. The offer of derivative products 
futures and options  by both local and foreign-owned financial 
  -  exchange rate and   institutions is allowed provided: 
    interest  rate 
   instruments, including  
   swaps and forward rate  
   agreements 
  -  transferable securities  -  the product has been offered by the     
  -  other negotiable   financial institution in other 
    instruments   internationally-reputable financial centres 
    and financial assets,   and the supervisory authorities of those 
    including bullion  centres agree to the offer of such products 
in their markets; 
  -  the financial institution's parent supervisor     
and its head office must be aware and have 
no objection to the offer of such products 
in the Singapore branch/subsidiary;  and   14   15   16   17   18 
 
(l)  Provision and transfer of  1)  Unbound except for the provision  1)  None for the provision of   
inancial information, and  of financial information by  financial information by 
financial data processing  providers such as Reuters and  providers such as Reuters and 
and related software by  Bloomberg.  Bloomberg. 
providers of other    The Singapore branches of foreign   
financial services  banks can transmit data to their   
  head offices and sister branches for   
processing provided proper controls   
exist, the integrity and 
confidentiality of the 
data/information are safeguarded, 
and MAS is allowed on-site access 
to the data/information at the place 
where the data/information is 
processed.   19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   20 
Section 2 : Specific Commitments of Korea 
   21   22   23 
(ii) Reinsurance and  1) None  1) None   
retrocession services  2) None  2) None 
     
3) Commercial presence is permitted only to  3) None 
foreign reinsurance and retrocession   
insurance companies.   
   
  Recruitment and employment of insurance    
  professionals, including sales personnel, are    
  restricted.   
   
Establishment of joint ventures with Korean   
reinsurance and retrocession services is not   
allowed.   
   
Top executive personnel of each   
establishment must reside in Korea.   
   
4) Unbound except as indicated in the  4) Unbound except as indicated in the 
Horizontal Commitments Section.  Horizontal Commitments Section.   24   25 
                                             
4 Activities which assess and adjust loss and compensation.   26 
                                             
2 Activities through which banks obtain funds from the public by receiving deposits or issuing transferable instruments or other securities. 
3 Activities through which banks provide funds to the public in order to receive interest via loans or bill discounts.   27 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
4 Activities which issue, remit and collect foreign exchange. 
5 Activities which settle and clear notes, bills and cheques by banks according to the Article of KFTCI (Korea Financial Telecommunications and Clearings Institute). 
6 The definitions of "a person" and "non-financial service business entity" are in accordance with the relevant provision of the Presidential Decree of the Bank Act.    28   29   30   31 
                                             
7 Activities where a trustee is commissioned to manage the financial assets for the beneficiary’s benefit. 
   32   33 
 