 
CHAPTER 14 
ELECTRONIC COMMERCE 
         
 
ARTICLE 14.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
digital products means computer programmes, text, video, images, sound recordings 
and other product that are digitally encoded, regardless of whether they are fixed on a 
carrier medium or transmitted electronically14-1; 
 
carrier medium means any physical object capable of storing a digital product by any 
method  now  known  or  later  developed,  and  from  which  a  digital  product  can  be 
perceived, reproduced, or communicated, directly or indirectly, and includes, but is not 
limited to, an optical medium, a floppy disk, or a magnetic tape; 
 
electronic transmission or transmitted electronically means the transfer of digital 
products using any electromagnetic or photonic means; and 
 
using electronic means employing computer and digital processing. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.2 : SCOPE 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the economic growth and opportunity provided by electronic 
commerce the importance of avoiding unnecessary barriers to electronic commerce and 
the applicability of WTO rules to electronic commerce. 
 
2.  This Chapter does not apply to measures affecting the electronic transmission of a 
series of text, video, images, sound recordings, and other products scheduled by a 
content provider for aural and/or visual reception, and for which the content consumer 
has no choice over the scheduling of the series. 
                                             
14-1 For greater clarity, digital products do not include digitised representations of financial instruments. 
 
  
 
ARTICLE 14.3 : ELECTRONIC SUPPLY OF SERVICES 
 
  For greater certainty, the Parties affirm that measures related to the supply of a 
service using electronic means fall within the scope of the obligations contained in the 
relevant provisions of Chapters 9 (Cross-Border Trade in Services), 10 (Investment) and 
12 (Financial Services), and, subject to any exceptions applicable to such obligations 
and except where an obligation does not apply to any such measure pursuant to Articles 
9.6 and 10.9. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.4 : DIGITAL PRODUCTS 
 
1.   Each Party shall not apply customs duties or other duties, fees, or charges on or in 
connection with the importation or exportation of a digital product of the other Party by 
electronic transmission14-2. 
 
2.  Each Party shall determine the customs value of an imported carrier medium 
bearing a digital product in accordance with the Customs Valuation Agreement. 
 
3.   A Party shall not accord less favourable treatment to a digital product than it 
accords to other like digital products: 
 
(a)  on the basis that: 
(i)  the  digital  product  receiving  less  favourable  treatment  is  created, 
produced, published, stored, transmitted, contracted for, commissioned, 
or first made available on commercial terms in the territory of the other 
Party; or 
(ii)  the author, performer, producer, developer, or distributor of such digital 
product is a person of the other Party, 
 
    or  
 
                                             
14-2  Paragraph 1 does not preclude a Party from imposing internal taxes or other internal charges 
provided that these are imposed in a manner consistent with this Agreement. 
 (b)  so as otherwise to afford protection to the other like digital products that are 
created,  produced,  published,  stored,  transmitted,  contracted  for, 
commissioned, or first made available on commercial terms, in its territory. 
 
4.   Paragraph 3 does not apply to any non-conforming measure described in Articles 
9.6 and 10.9. 
 