CHAPTER 20 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.1 : CO-OPERATION 
 
  The  Parties  shall  at  all  times  endeavour  to  agree  on  the  interpretation  and 
application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt through co-operation and 
consultations to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that might 
affect its operation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.2 : SCOPE AND COVERAGE 
 
1.   Unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Parties  elsewhere  in  this  Agreement,  the 
provisions of this Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance and settlement of all 
disputes between the Parties regarding the implementation, interpretation or application 
of this Agreement or wherever a Party considers that a measure of the other Party is 
inconsistent with the obligations of this Agreement or causes nullification or impairment 
of any benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly under Chapters 3 (National Treatment 
and Market Access for Goods), 4 (Rules of Origin), and 9 (Cross Border Trade on 
Services). 
 
2.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, the timeframes and procedural rules set 
out in this Chapter and its Annex[es] shall apply to all disputes governed by this 
Chapter. 
 
3.   Findings, determinations and recommendations of an arbitral panel cannot add to 
or diminish the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement.  
  
4.   The provisions of this Chapter may be invoked in respect of measures affecting 
the observance of this Agreement taken by the relevant authorities within the territory of 
a Party. When an arbitral panel has ruled that a provision of this Agreement has not been 
observed, the responsible Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be available 
to it to ensure its observance within its territory. 
 
5.   The Parties and the arbitral panel appointed under this Chapter shall interpret and 
 apply the provisions of this Agreement in the light of the objectives of this Agreement 
and in accordance with customary rules of public international law. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.3 : CHOICE OF FORUM 
 
1.   Disputes regarding any matter arising under both this Agreement and the WTO 
Agreement, any agreement negotiated thereunder, or any successor agreement, may be 
settled in the forum selected by the complaining Party. 
 
2.   Once dispute settlement procedures have been initiated under Article 20.6 or 
dispute settlement proceedings have been initiated under the WTO Agreement, the 
forum selected shall be used to the exclusion of the other. 
 
3.   For the purposes of this Article, dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO 
Agreement are deemed to be initiated upon a request for a panel by a Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.4 : CONSULTATIONS  
 
1.   A Party may request in writing consultations with the other Party on any matter 
affecting  the  implementation,  interpretation  or  application  of  this  Agreement  or 
whenever a party considers that any measure or any other matter that is inconsistent 
with the obligations of this Agreement or causes nullification or impairment of any 
benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly under Chapters 3 (National Treatment and 
Market Access for Goods), 4 (Rules of Origin), and 9 (Cross Border Trade in Services).   
 
2.   If a request for consultation is made, the Party to which the request is made shall 
reply to the request within ten (10) days after the date of its receipt and shall enter into 
consultations within a period of no more than twenty (20) days after the date of receipt 
of the request, with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. 
  
3.   The Parties shall make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of 
any matter through consultations. To this end, the Parties shall:  
 
(a)  provide  sufficient  information  to  enable  a  full  examination  of  how  the 
measure might affect the operation of the Agreement; and  
  (b)  treat as confidential any information exchanged in the consultations which 
the other Party has designated as confidential.  
 
 
ARTICLE 20.5 : GOOD OFFICES, CONCILIATION OR MEDIATION  
  
1.  The Parties may at any time agree to good offices, conciliation or mediation. They 
may begin at any time and be terminated by either Party at any time.  
  
2.  Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation and mediation, and in particular 
positions taken  by the Parties during these proceedings,  shall  be  confidential,  and 
without prejudice to the rights of either Party in any further proceedings under the 
provisions of this Chapter or any other proceedings before a forum selected by the 
Parties. 
 
3.  If the Parties agree, procedures for good offices, conciliation or mediation may 
continue while the dispute proceeds for resolution before an arbitral panel established 
under Article 20.6. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.6 : REQUEST FOR AN ARBITRAL PANEL 
 
1.   A Party may request in writing for the establishment of an arbitral panel if the 
matter has not been resolved pursuant to Article 20.4, within forty-five (45) days after 
the date of receipt of the request for consultations.  
 
2.   A request for arbitration shall give the reason for the complaint including the 
identification  of  the  measure  at  issue  and  an  indication  of  the  legal  basis  of  the 
complaint. 
 
3.   Upon delivery of the request, an arbitral panel shall be established. 
 
4.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, an arbitral panel shall be established and 
perform its functions in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 ARTICLE 20.7 : COMPOSITION OF ARBITRAL PANELS  
 
1.   The arbitral panel referred to in Article 20.6 shall consist of three (3) members.  
Each Party shall appoint a member within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request 
under Article 20.6. The Parties shall jointly appoint the third member who shall serve as 
the chair of the arbitral panel within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second 
member. 
 
2.   If the Parties are unable to agree on the chair of the arbitral panel within thirty (30) 
days after the date on which the second member has been appointed, they shall within 
the next ten (10) days exchange their respective list comprising four (4) nominees each 
who shall not be nationals of either Party.  The chair shall then be appointed in the 
presence of both Parties by lot from the lists within forty (40) days from the date of 
appointment of the second member.  If a Party fails to submit its list of four (4) 
nominees, the chair shall be appointed by lot from the list already submitted by the 
other Party.  
 
3.   If a member of the arbitral panel appointed under this Article becomes unable to 
act, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the appointment 
of the original member and the successor shall have all the powers and duties of the 
original member.  In such a case, any time period applicable to the arbitral panel 
proceedings shall be suspended for a period beginning on the date when the original 
member becomes unable to act and ending on the date when the new member is 
appointed. 
  
4.   Any person appointed as a member of the arbitral panel shall have expertise or 
experience in law, international trade, other matters covered by this Agreement or the 
resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements. A member shall be 
chosen strictly on the bases of objectivity, reliability, sound judgment and independence 
and shall conduct himself or herself on the same bases throughout the course of the 
arbitration proceedings. If a Party believes that a member is in violation of the bases 
stated above, the Parties shall consult and if they agree, the member shall be removed 
and a new member shall be appointed in accordance with this Article. Additionally, the 
chair shall not have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of, nor be 
employed by, either Party.  
 
 
 ARTICLE 20.8 : TERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS 
  
  The Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings before an arbitral panel at any 
time by jointly notifying the chair to this effect. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.9 : PROCEEDINGS OF ARBITRAL PANELS 
 
1.   Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the arbitral panel shall follow the model rules 
of procedure in the Annex 20A, which shall ensure: 
 
(a)   that an arbitral panel shall meet in closed session; 
(b)   a right to at least one hearing before the arbitral panel;  
(c)   an opportunity for each Party to provide initial and rebuttal submissions; 
(d)   that each Party’s written submissions, written versions of its oral statement, 
and written response to a request or question from the arbitral panel may be 
made public after they are submitted, subject to clause (g);  
(e)   that the arbitral panel may consider requests from non-governmental entities 
in the Parties’ territories to provide written views regarding the dispute that 
may assist the arbitral panel in evaluating the submissions and arguments of 
the Parties; 
(f)   a reasonable opportunity for each Party to submit comments on the initial 
report presented pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 20.11; and 
(g)   the protection of confidential information. 
 
2.  The arbitral panel may, after consulting the Parties, adopt additional rules of 
procedure not inconsistent with the model rules. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.10 : INFORMATION AND TECHNICAL ADVICE 
 
1.   Upon request of a Party, or on its own initiative, the arbitral panel may seek 
information and technical advice from any person or body that it deems appropriate. 
Any information and technical advice so obtained shall be made available to the Parties. 
 
2.   With respect to factual issues concerning a scientific or other technical matter 
raised by a Party, the arbitral panel may request advisory reports in writing from an 
 expert or experts. The arbitral panel may, at the request of a Party or on its own 
initiative, select, in consultation with the Parties, scientific or technical experts who 
shall assist the arbitral panel throughout its proceedings, but who shall not have the right 
to vote in respect of any decision to be made by the arbitral panel. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.11 : INITIAL REPORT 
 
1.   Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the arbitral panel shall base its report on the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, on the submissions and arguments of the Parties, 
and on any information before it, pursuant to Article 20.10.  
 
2.   Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the arbitral panel shall, within ninety (90) days 
after the last member is selected, present to the Parties an initial report containing:  
 
(a)   findings of law and/or fact together with reasons; 
(b)   its determination as to the implementation, interpretation or application of 
this Agreement or whether the measure at issue is inconsistent with the 
obligations of this Agreement or causes nullification or impairment of any 
benefit accruing to a Party under this Agreement, or any other determination 
requested in the terms of reference; and  
(c)   its recommendations, if any, on the means to resolve the dispute. 
 
3.   The Parties may submit written comments on the initial report within fourteen (14) 
days of its presentation.  
 
4.   In case that such written comments by the Parties are received as provided for in 
paragraph 3, the arbitral panel, on its own initiative or at the request of a Party, may 
reconsider its report and make any further examination that it considers appropriate after 
considering such written comments. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.12 : FINAL REPORT 
 
1.   The arbitral panel shall present a final report to the Parties, within thirty (30) days 
of presentation of the initial report, unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
  
 2.   The final report of the arbitral panel shall be made publicly available within fifteen 
(15) days of its delivery to the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.13 : IMPLEMENTATION OF FINAL REPORT 
 
1.   The final report of an arbitral panel shall be binding on the Parties and shall not be 
subject to appeal. 
 
2.   On receipt of the final report of an arbitral panel, the Parties shall agree on: 
 
(a)   the means to resolve the dispute, which normally shall conform with the 
determinations or recommendations, if any, of the arbitral panel; and 
(b)   the reasonable period of time which is necessary in order to implement the 
means to resolve the dispute. If the Parties fail to agree on the reasonable 
period of time, a Party may request the original arbitral panel to determine 
the length of the reasonable period of time, in the light of the particular 
circumstances of the case. The determination of the arbitral panel shall be 
presented within fifteen (15) days from that request.  
 
3.   If, in its final report, the arbitral panel determines that a Party has not conformed 
with  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement  or  that  a  Party’s  measure  has  caused 
nullification or impairment, the means to resolve the dispute shall, whenever possible, 
be to eliminate the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment. 
 
 
ARTICLE  20.14  :  NON-IMPLEMENTATION  –  COMPENSATION  AND  SUSPENSION  OF 
BENEFITS 
 
1.   If the Parties 
 
(a)  are unable to agree on the means to resolve the dispute pursuant to paragraph 
2(a) of Article 20.13 within thirty (30) days of issuance of the final report; or 
(b)   have agreed on the means to resolve the dispute pursuant to Article 20.13 
and the Party complained against fails to implement the aforesaid means 
within thirty (30) days following the expiration of the reasonable period of 
time determined in accordance with paragraph 2(b) of Article 20.13,  
  
the Party complained against shall enter into negotiations with the complaining Party 
with  a  view  to  reaching  a  mutually  satisfactory  agreement  on  any  necessary 
compensatory adjustment.   
 
2.   If no mutually satisfactory agreement on compensation has been reached within 
twenty (20) days after the Parties have entered into negotiations on compensatory 
adjustment, the complaining Party may at any time thereafter provide written notice to 
the Party complained against that it intends to suspend the application to that Party of 
benefits of equivalent effect.  The notice shall specify the level of benefits that the 
complaining Party proposes to suspend. The complaining Party may begin suspending 
benefits thirty (30) days after the date when it provides notice to the Party complained 
against under this paragraph, or the date when the arbitral panel issues the report under 
paragraph 6, whichever is later. 
 
3.   Any suspension of benefits shall be restricted to benefits granted to the Party 
complained against under this Agreement.  
  
4.   In considering what benefits to suspend under paragraph 2:  
 
(a)   the complaining Party should first seek to suspend benefits in the same 
sector or sectors as that affected by the measure or other matter that the 
arbitral panel has found to be inconsistent with this Agreement or to have 
caused nullification or impairment; and  
(b)   the  complaining  Party  may  suspend    benefits    in  other  sectors  if  it 
considers that it is not practicable or effective to suspend benefits in the 
same sector.  
  
5.   The suspension of benefits shall be temporary and shall only be applied until such 
time as the measure found to be inconsistent with this Agreement, or to have caused 
nullification or impairment has been removed, or a mutually satisfactory solution is 
reached. 
 
6.   If the Party complained against considers that:  
 
(a)   the level of benefits that the complaining Party has proposed to be suspended 
is manifestly excessive; or  
 (b)   it has eliminated the non-conformity, nullification or impairment that the 
arbitral panel has found, 
 
it may request the original arbitral panel to determine the matter. The original arbitral 
panel shall  present its determination to the Parties within thirty (30) days after it 
reconvenes. 
 
7.   If  the  arbitral  panel  cannot  be  reconvened  with  its  original  members,  the 
procedures for appointment for the arbitral panel set out in Article 20.7 shall be applied. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.15 :  OFFICIAL LANGUAGE 
 
1.   All proceedings and all documents submitted to the arbitral panel shall be in the 
English language. 
 
2.   When an original document submitted to the arbitral panel by a Party is not in the 
English language, that Party shall translate it into the English language and submit it 
with the original document at the same time. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20.16 :  EXPENSES  
 
1.   Unless  the  Parties  otherwise  agree,  the  costs  of  the  arbitral  panel  and  other 
expenses associated with the conduct of its proceedings shall be borne in equal parts by 
both Parties. 
 
2.   Each Party shall bear its own expenses and legal costs in the arbitral proceedings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 