 
CHAPTER 13 
TEMPORARY ENTRY OF BUSINESS PERSONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.1: DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter : 
 
business person means a national  of a Party who is engaged in trade in goods, the 
provision of services or the conduct of investment activities;  
 
business visitors means nationals of either Party who are:  
 
(a)  service sellers; 
(b)  short-term service suppliers; 
(c)  investors  of  a  Party  or  employees  of  an  investor  who  are  managers, 
executives or specialists as defined in relation to intra-corporate transferees 
in a Party’s Schedule of Specific Commitments to GATS seeking temporary 
entry to establish an investment; or  
(d)  seeking temporary entry for the purposes of negotiating the sale of goods 
where such negotiations do not involve direct sales to the general public; 
 
service seller means a national of a Party who is a sales representative of a service 
supplier of that Party and is seeking temporary entry to the other Party for the purpose 
of negotiating the sale of services for that service supplier, where such a representative 
will not be engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying services 
directly;  
 
short-term service suppliers means persons who:  
 
(a)  are employees of a service supplier or an enterprise of a Party not having a 
commercial presence or investment in the other Party, which has concluded a 
service  contract  with  a  service  supplier  or  an  enterprise  engaged  in 
substantive business operations in the other Party;  
(b)  have been employees of the service supplier or enterprise for a time period of 
not less than one year immediately preceding an application for admission for 
 temporary entry;  
(c)  are  managers,  executives  or  specialists  as  defined  in  relation  to  intra-
corporate  transferees  in  a  Party’s  Schedule  of  Specific  Commitments  to 
GATS;  
(d)  are seeking temporary entry to the other Party for the purpose of providing a 
service as a professional in the following service sectors on behalf of the 
service supplier or enterprise which employs them: 
(i)   professional services;   
(ii)  computer and related services;  
(iii)  telecommunication services;   
(iv)  financial services; or  
(v)  tour guides and translators; and 
(e)  satisfy any other requirements under the domestic laws and regulations of the 
other Party to provide such services in the territory of that Party; and 
 
temporary entry means entry into the territory of a Party by a business person of the 
other Party without the intent to establish permanent residence. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.2: GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
 
1.  Further to Article 1.2, this Chapter reflects the preferential trading relationship 
between  the  Parties,  the  Parties’  mutual  desire  to  facilitate  temporary  entry  on  a 
comparable basis and to establish transparent criteria and procedures for temporary 
entry, and the need to ensure border security and to protect the domestic labour force 
and permanent employment in their respective territories. 
 
2.    This Chapter shall not apply to measures regarding nationality or citizenship, 
residence on a permanent basis or employment on a permanent basis.   
 
 
ARTICLE 13.3: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
  
1.  Each Party shall apply its measures relating to the provisions of this Chapter in 
accordance with Article 13.2 and, in particular, shall apply expeditiously those measures 
so as to avoid unduly impairing or delaying trade in goods or services or conduct of 
investment activities under this Agreement. 
  
2.  The  Parties  shall  endeavour  to  develop  and  adopt  common  definitions  and 
interpretations for the implementation of this Chapter.  
 
3.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate 
the entry of business persons into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, including 
those measures necessary to protect the integrity of its borders, and to ensure the orderly 
movement of business persons across its borders, provided that such measures are not 
applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the commitments made by a Party.  
The mere requirement of a visa or other document authorising employment shall not be 
regarded  as  nullifying  or  impairing  the  commitments  made  by  a  Party  under  this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.4: GRANT OF TEMPORARY ENTRY 
 
1.  In accordance with this Chapter and subject to the provisions of Annex 13A and 
Appendix 13A.1, each Party shall grant temporary entry to business persons who are 
otherwise qualified for entry under applicable measures relating to public health, safety 
and national security. 
 
2.  A Party may refuse to issue an immigration document authorising employment to a 
business person where the temporary entry of that person might affect adversely:  
 
(a)  the settlement of any labour dispute that is in progress at the place or intended 
place of employment; or  
(b)  the employment of any person who is involved in such dispute. 
 
3.  When a Party refuses pursuant to paragraph 2 to issue an immigration document 
authorising employment, it shall:  
 
(a)  take measures to allow the business person to be informed in writing of  the 
reasons for the refusal; and  
(b)  promptly notify the other Party in writing of the reasons for the refusal. 
 
 4.  Each Party may set any fees for processing applications for temporary entry of 
business persons in a manner that is consistent with its obligations which are set out in 
this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.5: PROVISION OF INFORMATION 
 
Further to Article 19.2, each Party shall:  
 
(a)  provide to the other Party such materials as will enable the other Party to 
 become acquainted with its own measures relating to this Chapter; and  
(b)  no  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement, publish or otherwise make available in its own territory, and in 
the  territory  of  the  other  Party,  explanatory  material  regarding  the 
requirements for temporary entry under this Chapter in such a manner as will 
enable business persons of the other Party to become acquainted with them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.6: DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
1.  A Party may not initiate proceedings under Article 20.6 regarding a refusal to grant 
temporary entry under this Chapter or a particular case arising under Article 13.2 unless:  
 
(a)  the matter involves a pattern of practice; and  
(b)  the  business  person  has  exhausted  the  available  administrative  remedies 
regarding the particular matter. 
 
2.  The remedies referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall be deemed to be exhausted if a 
final determination in the matter has not been issued by the competent authority within 
six (6) months of the institution of an administrative proceeding, and the failure to issue 
a determination is not attributable to delay caused by the business person. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.7: RELATION TO OTHER CHAPTERS 
 
  Except for this Chapter, Chapters 1(General Provisions), 2(General Definitions), 
20(Dispute Settlement) and 22(Administration and Final Provisions), and Articles 19.2, 
 19.3 and 19.4, nothing in this Agreement shall  impose any obligation on a Party 
regarding its immigration measures.  
 