 
CHAPTER 21 
EXCEPTIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 21.1 : DEFINITIONS 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
  
tax agreement means a convention for the avoidance of double taxation or other 
international agreement or arrangement.  
 
 
ARTICLE 21.2 : GENERAL EXCEPTIONS 
 
1. 
Article XX of GATT is incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, for the 
purposes of:  
 
(a) 
Chapters 3 (National Treatment and Market Access for Goods), 4 (Rules of 
Origin), 5 (Customs Procedures), 6 (Trade Remedies), and 14 (Electronic 
Commerce), except to the extent that a provision of those Chapters applies to 
services or investment; and 
(b)  Chapter 16 (Government Procurement), except to the extent that any of its 
provisions applies to services. 
 
2.  Subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article XIV of GATS are incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement, for the purposes of:  
 
(a)  Chapters 3 (National Treatment and Market Access for Goods), 4 (Rules of 
Origin), 5 (Customs Procedures), 6 (Trade Remedies), and 14 (Electronic 
Commerce), to the extent that a provision of those chapters applies to 
services; 
(b)  Chapter 9 (Cross Border Trade in Services); 
(c)  Chapter 10 (Investment); 
(d)  Chapters 11 (Telecommunication) and 12 (Financial Services); and 
(e)  Chapter 16 (Government Procurement), to the extent that a provision applies 
to services. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 21.3 : NATIONAL SECURITY 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:  
 
(a) 
to require a Party to furnish any information, the disclosure of which it 
considers contrary to its essential security interests; or  
 
(b) 
to prevent a Party from taking any actions which it considers necessary for 
the protection of its essential security interests:  
 
(i)  relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of  war 
and to such traffic in other goods and materials or relating to the supply 
of services as carried on, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of 
supplying or provisioning a military establishment;  
 
(ii)  taken in time of war or other emergency in international relations;  
 
(iii) relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the materials from 
which they are derived; or 
 
(c)  to prevent a Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations 
under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace 
and security. 
 
A Party shall inform the other Party to the fullest extent possible, of measures taken 
under paragraphs 1(b) and (c) and of their termination during the meeting to review the 
implementation of this Agreement under Article 22.1, if such measures were taken. 
 
 
ARTICLE 21.4 : TAXATION 
 
1. 
Except as set out in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shall apply to taxation 
measures. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of either Party 
under any tax agreement to which both Parties are parties. In the event of any 
 
inconsistency between this Agreement and any such agreement, that agreement shall 
prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. In the case of a bilateral tax agreement 
between the Parties, the competent authorities under that agreement shall have sole 
responsibility for determining whether any inconsistency exists between this Agreement 
and that agreement.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, Article 3.3 and such other provisions of this 
Agreement as are necessary to give effect to that Article shall apply to taxation 
measures to the same extent as does Article III of GATT 1994. 
 
4. 
Articles 10.13 and 10.19 shall apply to taxation measures to the extent that such 
taxation measures constitute expropriation as provided for therein21-1. An investor that 
seeks to invoke Article 10.13 with respect to a taxation measure must first refer to the 
competent authorities described in paragraph 5, at the time that it gives notice under 
Article 10.19, the issue of whether that taxation measure involves an expropriation. If 
the competent authorities do not agree to consider the issue or, having agreed to 
consider it, fail to agree that the measure is not an expropriation within a period of six 
(6) months of such referral, the investor may submit its claim to arbitration under 
Article 10.19. 
 
5. 
For the purposes of this Article, competent authorities means: 
 
                                             
21-1 With reference to Article 10.13 in assessing whether a taxation measure constitutes expropriation, 
the following considerations are relevant: 
(i) 
the imposition of taxes does not generally constitute expropriation. The mere introduction of new 
taxation measures or the imposition of taxes in more than one jurisdiction in respect of an investment, 
does not in and of itself constitute expropriation; 
(ii) 
taxation measures which are consistent with internationally recognised tax policies, principles and 
practices do not constitute expropriation. In particular, taxation measures aimed at preventing the 
avoidance or evasion of taxes should not, generally, be considered to be expropriatory; and 
(iii) 
taxation measures which are applied on a non-discriminatory basis, as opposed to being targeted 
at investors of a particular nationality or specific individual taxpayers, are less likely to constitute 
expropriation. A taxation measure should not constitute expropriation if, when the investment is made, it 
was already in force, and information about the measure was made public or otherwise made publicly 
available.   
 
 
(a)  for Singapore, Director for Fiscal Policy, Ministry of Finance, or his 
successor or such other public officer as may be designated by Singapore; 
and  
(b) 
for Korea, Deputy Minister, Tax and Customs Office, Ministry of Finance 
and Economy or his successor.  
 
