ANNEX 9D: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
 
1. 
The objective of this Annex is the establishment of rules to be followed by the 
Parties in the reduction and gradual elimination, within their territories, of the barriers in 
the rendering of professional services. 
 
Development of Professional Standards  
 
2. 
The Parties shall encourage the relevant bodies in their respective territories to 
develop mutually acceptable standards and criteria for licensing and certification of 
professional service providers and to provide recommendations on mutual recognition 
when the Parties meet for a review under Article 22.1.  
 
3. 
The standards and criteria referred to in paragraph 2 may be developed with regard 
to the following matters:  
 
(a)  education - accreditation of schools or academic programs;  
 (b) examinations - qualifying examinations for licensing, including alternative  
 methods of assessment such as oral examinations and interviews;  
(c)  experience - length and nature of experience required for licensing;  
(d) conduct and ethics - standards of professional conduct and the nature of  
disciplinary action for non-conformity with those standards;  
(e) professional development and re-certification - continuing education and  
ongoing requirements to maintain professional certification;  
(f)  scope of practice - extent of, or limitations on, permissible activities;  
(g) local knowledge - requirements for knowledge of such matters as local laws, 
regulations, language, geography or climate; and  
(h) consumer protection - alternatives to residency requirements, including bonding,  
professional liability insurance and client restitution funds, to provide for the  
protection of consumers. 
 
4. 
Upon receipt of a recommendation referred to in paragraph 2, the Parties meeting at 
the review under Article 22.1 shall review the recommendation within a reasonable time 
to determine whether it is consistent with this Agreement. Based on the review, each Party 
shall encourage its respective competent authorities, where appropriate, to implement the 
recommendation within a mutually agreed time. 
 
Temporary Licensing  
 
5. 
Where the Parties agree, each Party shall encourage the relevant bodies in its 
territory to develop procedures for the temporary licensing of professional service 
providers of the other Party. 
 
Recognition of Professional engineers 
 
6. 
To facilitate access of professional engineers to business opportunity in the territory 
of the other Party, both Parties  agree to widen the scope of recognized universities for 
professional engineers, as follows: 
 
 
2 
(a) Korea will recognise 2 Singapore universities. 
(b) Singapore will recognise 20 Korean universities.  
  
7. 
Based on mutual trust and agreement on common benchmarks, each Party will 
select the qualified universities and their specific qualified programs and notify them to 
the other Party. 
 
8. 
Both Parties will enter into negotiations on mutual recognition of professional 
engineers with a view to achieving mutually beneficial outcomes. 
 
9. 
Both Parties will designate the relevant Ministries or Government Agencies in 
charge of registration or licensing of professional engineers to continue consultations on 
the mutual recognition of professional engineers. 
 
10. Notwithstanding Article 9.2, the recognition above shall apply for any purpose of 
professional requirement for professional engineers under this Agreement.   
 
Review  
 
11.  `Pursuant to the Article 22.1, the Parties shall periodically review the 
implementation of this Annex. 
 
