 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 1  
GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.1 : ESTABLISHMENT OF FREE TRADE AREA 
 
 
The Parties to this Agreement, consistent with  Article XXIV of GATT 1994 and  
Article V of GATS, hereby establish a free trade area in accordance with the provisions  
of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.2 : OBJECTIVES 
 
 
The  objectives  of  this  Agreement,  as  elaborated  more  specifically  through  its  
principles  and  rules,  including  national  treatment,  most-favoured-nation  treatment  and  
transparency, are to:    
 
 
(a)  liberalise  and  facilitate  trade  in  goods  and  services  and  expand  investment  
between the Parties;    
(b)  establish a co-operative framework for strengthening the economic relations  
between the Parties;    
(c)  establish a framework conducive for a more favourable environment for their  
businesses and promote conditions of fair competition in the free trade area;    
(d)  establish  a  framework  of  transparent  rules  to  govern  trade  and  investment  
between the Parties;  
(e)  create  effective  procedures  for  the  implementation  and  application  of  this  
Agreement; and  
(f)  establish  a  framework  for  further  regional  and  multilateral  co-operation  to  
expand  and  enhance  the  benefits  of  this  Agreement  throughout  Asia,  and  
thereby, to encourage economic integration of Asian economies.    
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.3 : RELATION TO OTHER AGREEMENTS 
 
 
1.    The Parties reaffirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other  
under  existing  bilateral  and  multilateral  agreements  to  which  both  Parties  are  party,  
including the WTO Agreement.    
 
 
2.    In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and other agreements to  
which both Parties are party, the Parties shall immediately consult with each other with  
a  view  to  finding  a  mutually  satisfactory  solution,  taking  into  consideration  general  
principles of international law.    
 
 
3.    Notwithstanding  paragraph  2,  if  this  Agreement  explicitly  contains  provisions  
regarding such inconsistency as indicated in paragraph 2, those provisions shall apply. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.4 : REFERENCE TO OTHER AGREEMENTS 
 
 
1.    For  the  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  any  reference  to  articles  in  GATT  1994  or    
GATS includes the interpretative notes, where applicable.  
 
 
2.    Any  reference  in  this  Agreement  to  any  other  treaty  or  international  agreement  
shall  be  made  in  the  same  terms  to  its  successor  treaty  or  international  agreement  to  
which both Parties are party.  
