 
CHAPTER 7  
 
INVESTMENT 
 
 
Article 7.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
covered investment means, with respect to a Party, an investment in its territory of an 
investor of the other Party in existence as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement or 
established, acquired, or expanded thereafter; 
 
enterprise means an enterprise as defined in Article 1.2 (General Definitions), and a branch 
of an enterprise; 
 
enterprise of a Party means an enterprise constituted or organised under the law of a Party, 
or a branch located in the territory of a Party and carrying out business activities there;1 
 
freely usable currency means “freely usable currency” as determined by the International 
Monetary Fund under its Articles of Agreement; 
 
investment means every asset that an investor owns or controls, directly or indirectly, that 
has the characteristics of an investment, including such characteristics as the commitment of 
capital or other resources, the expectation of gain or profit, or the assumption of risk. Forms 
that an investment may take include: 
 
(a)  an enterprise; 
 
(b)  shares, stock and other forms of equity participation in an enterprise; 
 
(c)  bonds, debentures, other debt instruments and loans;2 3 
 
(d)  futures, options and other derivatives; 
 
(e)  turnkey, construction, management, production, concession, revenue-sharing 
and other similar contracts; 
 
 
1 For greater certainty, the inclusion of a “branch” in the definitions of “enterprise” and “enterprise of a Party” is 
without prejudice to a Party’s ability to treat a branch under its laws as an entity that has no independent legal 
existence and is not separately organised. 
 
2 Some forms of debt, such as bonds, debentures, and long-term notes, are more likely to have the characteristics 
of an investment, while other forms of debt, such as claims to payment that are immediately due and result from 
the sale of goods or services, are less likely to have such characteristics. 
 
3 A loan issued by one Party to the other Party is not an investment. 
 
7-1 
  
(f)  intellectual property rights; 
 
(g)  licences, authorisations, permits and similar rights conferred pursuant to the 
Party’s laws and regulations; and 
 
(h)  other  tangible  or  intangible,  movable  or  immovable  property,  and  related 
property rights, such as leases, mortgages, liens and pledges, 
 
but investment does not mean an order or judgment entered in a judicial or administrative 
action; 
 
investor of a non-Party means, with respect to a Party, an investor that attempts to make,4 is 
making, or has made an investment in the territory of that Party, that is not an investor of a 
Party; 
 
investor of a Party means a Party, or a national or an enterprise of a Party, that attempts to 
make, is making, or has made an investment in the territory of the other Party; and 
 
measure means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, 
procedure, decision, administrative action, or any other form, and includes measures taken 
by:  
 
(a)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(b)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers  delegated  by  central, 
regional or local governments or authorities. 
 
 
Article 7.2: Scope5 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of the other Party; and 
 
(b)  covered investments. 
 
2.  Article 7.3, Article 7.4, Article 7.5 and Article 7.7 shall not apply to subsidies and 
grants provided by a Party including government-supported loans, guarantees and insurance. 
 
 
4 For greater certainty, the Parties understand that, for the purposes of the definitions of “investor of a non-
Party” and “investor of a Party”, an investor “attempts to make” an investment when that investor has taken 
concrete action or actions to make an investment, such as channelling resources or capital in order to set up a 
business, or applying for a permit or licence. 
 
5 For greater certainty, this Agreement shall not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking access to 
the employment market of either Party, nor shall it apply to measures regarding citizenship, residence or 
employment on a permanent basis. This Agreement shall not prevent either Party from applying measures to 
regulate the entry of natural persons into, or the temporary stay in, its territory. 
7-2 
  
3.  Article 7.3, Article 7.4 and Article 7.5 shall not apply to any measures affecting 
investments adopted or maintained pursuant to Chapter 8 (Services) to the extent that they 
relate to the supply of any specific service through commercial presence as defined in Article 
8.3.1(n)(iii)  (Definitions),  whether  or  not  they  are  covered  by  Annex  8.1  (Services 
Commitments). 
 
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to impose an obligation on a Party to 
privatise. 
 
5.  For greater certainty, an obligation in this Chapter shall not bind a Party in relation to 
an act or fact that took place or a situation that ceased to exist before the entry into force of 
that relevant obligation for that Party.   
 
 
Article 7.3: Most Favoured Nation Status 
 
Except  as  otherwise  provided  for  in  this  Agreement,  each  Party  shall  accord  to 
investors of the other Party, and to covered investments, in relation to the establishment, 
acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, liquidation, sale, transfer (or other 
disposition),  protection  and  expropriation  (including  any  compensation)  of  investments, 
treatment that is no less favourable than that it accords in like situations to investors and 
investments from any other State or separate customs territory which is not party to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 7.4: National Treatment 
 
Except  as  otherwise  provided  for  in  this  Agreement,  each  Party  shall  accord  to 
investors of the other Party, and to covered investments, in relation to the establishment, 
acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, liquidation, sale, transfer (or other 
disposition),  protection  and  expropriation  (including  any  compensation)  of  investments, 
treatment that is no less favourable than that it accords in like situations to its own investors 
and investments. 
 
 
Article 7.5: Interaction between Article 7.3 and Article 7.4  
 
Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party, and to covered investments, 
the better of the treatment required by Article 7.3 and Article 7.4. 
 
   
7-3 
  
Article 7.6: Minimum Standard of Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to covered investments treatment in accordance with the 
customary international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens, including fair and 
equitable treatment and full protection and security.6 
 
2.  For  greater  certainty,  paragraph  1  prescribes  the  customary  international  law 
minimum standard of treatment of aliens as the standard of treatment to be afforded to 
covered investments. The concepts of “fair and equitable treatment” and “full protection and 
security” do not require treatment in addition to or beyond that which is required by the 
customary international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens referred to in paragraph 
1 and do not create additional substantive rights. The obligation in paragraph 1 to provide: 
 
(a)  “fair and equitable treatment” includes the obligation not to deny justice in 
criminal, civil or administrative adjudicatory proceedings in accordance with 
the principle of due process embodied in the principal legal systems of the 
world; and 
 
(b)  “full protection and security” requires each Party to provide the level of police 
protection required under customary international law. 
 
3.  A determination that there has been a breach of another provision of this Agreement, 
or of a separate international agreement, does not establish that there has been a breach of this 
Article. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, the mere fact that a Party takes or fails to take an action that may 
be inconsistent with an investor’s expectations does not constitute a breach of this Article, 
even if there is loss or damage to the covered investment as a result. 
 
5.  For greater certainty, the mere fact  that a subsidy  or grant  has not  been issued, 
renewed or maintained, or has been modified or reduced, by a Party, does not constitute a 
breach of this Article, even if there is loss or damage to the covered investment as a result. 
 
 
Article 7.7: Treatment in Cases of Armed Conflict or Civil Strife 
 
1.  Investors of one Party whose investments in the territory of the other Party suffer 
losses owing to war or other armed conflict, civil disturbances, a state of national emergency, 
revolt, insurrection, riot or other similar situations in the territory of the latter Party, shall be 
accorded by the latter Party treatment, as regards restitution, indemnification, compensation 
or other settlement, if any, no less favourable than that which the latter Party accords to 
investors  of  any  non-Party  or  to  its  own  investors,  whichever  is  more favourable.  Any 
 
6 The Parties confirm their shared understanding that “customary international law” generally and as specifically referenced 
in Article 7.6 results from a general and consistent practice of States that they follow from a sense of legal obligation. The 
customary international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens refers to all customary international law principles that 
protect the investments of aliens. 
7-4 
  
resulting compensation shall be made in freely usable currency and be freely transferable in 
accordance with Article 7.9. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, if an investor of a Party, in a situation referred to in 
paragraph 1, suffers a loss in the territory of the other Party resulting from: 
 
(a)  requisitioning of its covered investment or part thereof by the latter’s forces or 
authorities; or  
 
(b)  destruction of its covered investment or part thereof by the latter’s forces or 
authorities, which was not required by the necessity of the situation, 
 
the latter Party shall provide the investor restitution, compensation or both, as appropriate, for 
that loss. 
 
 
Article 7.8: Expropriation and Compensation 
 
1.  Neither Party shall expropriate or nationalise a covered investment either directly or 
indirectly through measures equivalent to expropriation or nationalisation (expropriation), 
except: 
 
(a)  for a public purpose; 
 
(b)  in a non-discriminatory manner; 
 
(c)  on payment of prompt, adequate and effective compensation in accordance 
with paragraphs 2, 3 and 4; and 
 
(d)  in accordance with due process of law. 
 
2.  Compensation shall: 
 
(a)  be paid without delay; 
 
(b)  be  equivalent  to  the  fair  market  value  of  the  expropriated  investment 
immediately before the expropriation took place (the date of expropriation); 
 
(c)  not reflect any change in value occurring because the intended expropriation 
had become known earlier; and 
 
(d)  be fully realisable and freely transferable. 
 
3.  If the fair market value is denominated in a freely usable currency, the compensation 
paid shall be no less than the fair market value on the date of expropriation, plus interest at a 
commercially reasonable rate for that currency, accrued from the date of expropriation until 
the date of payment. 
7-5 
  
4.  If the fair market value is denominated in a currency that is not freely usable, the 
compensation paid, converted into the currency of payment at the market rate of exchange 
prevailing on the date of payment, shall be no less than: 
 
(a)  the fair market value on the date of expropriation, converted into a freely 
usable currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing on that date; plus 
 
(b)  interest, at a commercially reasonable rate for that freely usable currency, 
accrued from the date of expropriation until the date of payment. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, in the case of Singapore, any measure of 
expropriation relating to land, which shall be as defined in the existing domestic legislation7 
of the expropriating Party on the date of entry into force of this Protocol, shall be for a 
purpose and upon payment of compensation in accordance with the aforesaid legislation. 
 
6.  This Article shall not apply to the issuance of compulsory licences granted in relation 
to intellectual property rights in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement, or to the revocation, 
limitation  or  creation  of  intellectual  property  rights,  to  the  extent  that  the  issuance, 
revocation, limitation or creation is consistent with the TRIPS Agreement.8 
 
7.  For greater certainty, a Party’s decision not to issue, renew or maintain a subsidy or 
grant, or decision to modify or reduce a subsidy or grant, 
 
(a)  in the absence of any specific commitment under law or contract to issue, 
renew or maintain that subsidy or grant; or 
 
(b)  in accordance with any terms or conditions attached to the issuance, renewal, 
modification, reduction and maintenance of that subsidy or grant, 
 
standing alone, does not constitute an expropriation. 
 
 
Article 7.9: Transfers 
 
1.  Each Party shall permit all transfers relating to a covered investment to be made freely 
and without delay into and out of its territory. Such transfers include: 
 
(a)  contributions to capital;9 
 
 
7 The existing domestic legislation as at the date of entry into force of the Protocol for Singapore is the Land 
Acquisition Act (Cap. 152). 
 
8 For greater certainty, the term “revocation” of intellectual property rights includes the cancellation or 
nullification of such rights, and the term “limitation” of intellectual property rights includes exceptions to such 
rights. 
 
9 For greater certainty, contributions to capital include the initial contribution. 
 
7-6 
  
(b)  profits, dividends, interest, capital gains, royalty payments, management fees, 
technical assistance fees and other fees; 
 
(c)  proceeds from the sale of all or any part of the covered investment or from the 
partial or complete liquidation of the covered investment; 
 
(d)  payments made under a contract, including a loan agreement; 
 
(e)  payments made pursuant to Article 7.7 and Article 7.8; and 
 
(f)  payments arising out of a dispute. 
 
2.  Each Party shall permit transfers relating to a covered investment to be made in a 
freely usable currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer. 
 
3.  Each Party shall permit returns in kind relating to a covered investment to be made as 
authorised or specified in a written agreement between the Party and a covered investment or 
an investor of another Party. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Party may prevent  or delay a transfer 
through  the  equitable,  non-discriminatory  and  good  faith  application  of  its  laws  and 
regulations10 relating to: 
 
(a)  bankruptcy, insolvency or the protection of the rights of creditors; 
 
(b)  issuing, trading or dealing in securities, futures, options or derivatives; 
 
(c)  criminal or penal offences; 
 
(d)  financial reporting or record keeping of transfers when necessary to assist law 
enforcement or financial regulatory authorities; or 
 
(e)  ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in judicial or administrative 
proceedings. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding paragraph 3, a Party may restrict transfers of returns in kind in 
circumstances  where  it  could  otherwise  restrict  such  transfers  under  this  Agreement, 
including as set out in paragraph 4. 
 
6.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and obligations of the members of the 
International Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, including the use 
of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles of Agreement, provided that a 
Party  shall  not  impose  restrictions  on  any  capital  transactions  inconsistently  with  its 
 
10  For  greater  certainty, this  Article  does not  preclude  the  equitable, non-discriminatory and  good  faith 
application of a Party’s laws and regulations relating to its social security, public retirement or compulsory 
savings programmes. 
7-7 
  
obligations  under  this  Chapter  regarding  such  transactions,  except  under  Article  16.6 
(Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments) or at the request of the Fund. 
 
 
Article 7.10: Limitations 
 
1.  Article 7.3, Article 7.4 and Article 7.5 shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any limitation that is listed by a Party in Annex 7.2; 
 
(b)  an amendment to a limitation covered by paragraph (a) to the extent that the 
amendment does not decrease the conformity of the limitation with Article 
7.3, Article 7.4 and Article 7.5; 
 
(c)  any new limitation  adopted by a Party, and incorporated into Annex  7.2, 
which does not affect the overall level of commitments of that Party under this 
Chapter;  
 
to the extent that such limitations are inconsistent with those Articles. 
 
2.  As part of the reviews of this Agreement provided for in Article 15.4 (Review), the 
Parties undertake to review the status of the limitations set out in Annex 7.2 with a view to 
reducing the limitations or removing them. 
 
3.  A Party may, at any time, either on the request of the other Party or unilaterally, 
remove in whole or in part limitations set out in Annex 7.2 by written notification to the other 
Party. 
 
4.  A Party may, at any time, incorporate a new limitation into Annex 7.2 in accordance 
with paragraph 1(c) by written notification to the other Party. On receiving such written 
notification, the other Party may request consultations regarding the limitation. On receiving 
the request  for consultations, the Party incorporating the new limitation shall enter into 
consultations with the other Party. 
 
 
Article 7.11: Subrogation 
 
1.  In the event that either Party (or any agency, institution, statutory body or corporation 
designated by it) as a result of an indemnity it has given in respect of an investment or any 
part thereof makes payment to its own investors in respect of any of their claims under this 
Chapter, the other Party acknowledges that the former Party (or any agency, institution, 
statutory body or corporation designated by it) is entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise 
the rights and assert the claims of its own investors. The subrogated rights or claims shall not 
be greater than the original rights or claims of such investors. 
 
2.  Any  payment  made  by  one  Party  (or  any  agency,  institution,  statutory  body  or 
corporation designated by it) to its investors shall not affect the right of such investors to 
7-8 
  
make their claims against the other Party in accordance with Article 7.14, in cases where the 
former Party elects not to exercise its subrogated rights or claims. 
 
 
Article 7.12: Special Formalities and Information Requirements 
 
1.  Nothing  in  Article  7.4  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  a  Party  from  adopting  or 
maintaining  a  measure  that  prescribes  special  formalities  in  connection  with  a  covered 
investment, such as a residency requirement for registration or a requirement that a covered 
investment be legally constituted under the laws or regulations of the Party, provided that 
these formalities do not materially impair the protections afforded by the Party to investors of 
the other Party and covered investments pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding Article 7.3, Article 7.4 and Article 7.5, a Party may require an 
investor of the other Party or its covered investment to provide information concerning that 
investment  solely  for  informational  or  statistical  purposes.  The  Party  shall  protect  such 
information that is confidential from any disclosure that would prejudice the competitive 
position  of  the  investor  or  the  covered  investment.  Nothing  in  this  paragraph  shall  be 
construed to prevent a Party from otherwise obtaining or disclosing information in connection 
with the equitable and good faith application of its law. 
 
 
Article 7.13: Denial of Benefits 
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor of the other Party that is 
an enterprise of the other Party and to investments of that investor if the enterprise: 
 
(a)  is owned or controlled by a person of a non-Party or of the denying Party; and 
 
(b)  has no substantial business activities in the territory of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 7.14: Investment Disputes 
 
1.  Any legal dispute between an investor of one Party and the other Party arising directly 
out of an investment by that investor in the territory of that other Party shall, as far as 
possible, be settled amicably through negotiations between the investor and that other Party. 
 
2.  If the dispute cannot be resolved as provided for in paragraph 1 within six months 
from  the  date  of  request  for  negotiations  then,  unless  the  parties  to  the  dispute  agree 
otherwise,  it  shall,  on  the  request  of  either  such  party,  be  submitted  to  conciliation  or 
arbitration by the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes established by 
the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between the States and Nationals of 
Other States done at Washington on 18 March, 1965, provided that the other party does not 
withhold its consent under Article 25 of that Convention. 
 
7-9 
  
3.  No claim may be brought under this Article in respect of a tobacco control measure11 
of a Party. 
 
 
 
11 A tobacco control measure means a measure of a Party related to the production or consumption of 
manufactured tobacco products (including products made or derived from tobacco), their distribution, labelling, 
packaging, advertising, marketing, promotion, sale, purchase, or use, as well as enforcement measures, such as 
inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. For greater certainty, a measure with respect to tobacco 
leaf that is not in the possession of a manufacturer of tobacco products or that is not part of a manufactured 
tobacco product is not a tobacco control measure. 
7-10 
 