 
 
 
61 
 
ANNEX ON 
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES 
 
 
Article 1 
Scope 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to measures by a Member State 
affecting trade in public telecommunications transport 
networks and services. 
 
2. 
This Annex shall not apply to measures affecting 
broadcasting services as defined in the domestic laws and 
regulations of each Member State. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Annex shall be construed to: 
 
(a) require a Member State to authorise a service 
supplier of another Member State to establish, 
construct, acquire, 
lease, 
operate 
or 
supply 
telecommunications transport networks or services, 
unless otherwise in accordance with its Schedule of 
Non-Conforming Measures under this Agreement; or  
(b) require a Member State (or require a Member State 
to oblige service suppliers under its jurisdiction) to 
establish, construct, acquire, lease, operate or 
supply telecommunications transport networks or 
services not offered to the public generally. 
 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term: 
 
(a) “cost-oriented” means based on cost, and may 
include a reasonable profit, and may involve different 
cost methodologies for different facilities or services; 
 
 
 
 
62 
 
(b) “end user” means a subscriber to or a final consumer 
of public telecommunications transport networks or 
services, including a service supplier other than a 
supplier of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services; 
 
(c) “essential facilities” means facilities of a public 
telecommunications transport network or service 
that: 
 
(i) are exclusively or predominantly provided by a 
single or limited number of suppliers; and 
 
(ii) cannot feasibly be economically or technically 
substituted in order to provide a service; 
 
(d) “international mobile roaming service” means a 
commercial mobile service provided pursuant to a 
commercial agreement between suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services 
that enables end users to use their home mobile 
handset or other device for voice, data or messaging 
services while outside the territory in which the end 
user’s home public telecommunications transport 
network is located; 
 
(e) “international submarine cable landing station” 
means the premises1 where connection takes place 
with an international submarine cable system, as 
determined by the telecommunications regulatory 
body or other relevant competent authority or by a 
supplier of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services who owns or controls the 
premises, if required; 
 
                                      
 
1 For Thailand, this may include other designated points of access. 
 
 
 
63 
 
(f) “leased 
circuits” 
means 
telecommunications 
facilities between two or more designated points that 
are set aside for the dedicated use of, or availability 
to, particular users; 
 
(g) “major supplier” means a supplier which has the 
ability to materially affect the terms of participation, 
having regard to price and supply, in the relevant 
market for public telecommunications transport 
networks or services as a result of: 
 
(i) control over essential facilities; or 
 
(ii) use of its position in the market; 
 
(h) “non-discriminatory” means treatment no less 
favourable than that accorded to any other user of 
like public telecommunications transport networks or 
services in like circumstances; 
 
(i) “personal data” means any information about an 
identified or identifiable natural person; 
 
(j) “public telecommunications transport network” 
means the public telecommunications infrastructure 
which permits telecommunications between and 
among defined network termination points; 
 
(k) “public telecommunications transport service” 
means any telecommunications transport service 
required, explicitly or in effect, by a Member State to 
be offered to the public generally.  Such services may 
include, inter alia, telegraph, telephone, telex and 
data transmission typically involving transmission of 
customer-supplied information between two or more 
defined points without any end-to-end change in the 
form or content of the customer's information; 
 
 
 
 
64 
 
(l) “telecommunications” means the transmission and 
reception of signals by any electromagnetic means;  
 
(m) “telecommunications regulatory body” means any 
body or bodies in the territory of a Member State 
which is or are responsible, under the domestic laws 
and regulations of that Member State, for the 
regulation of telecommunications; and 
 
(n) “users” means end users or suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services. 
 
 
Article 3 
Access and Use 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall ensure that any service supplier 
of another Member State is accorded access to and use of 
public telecommunications transport networks and services in 
a timely fashion and on transparent, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms and conditions unless otherwise in 
accordance with its Schedule of Non-Conforming Measures 
under this Agreement This obligation shall be applied, inter 
alia, through paragraphs 2 through 6. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall ensure that service suppliers of 
another Member State have access to and use of any public 
telecommunications transport network or service offered 
within or across the border of that Member State, including 
private leased circuits, and to this end shall ensure, subject to 
the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6, that such suppliers are 
permitted to: 
 
(a) purchase or lease and attach terminal or other 
equipment which interfaces with the network and 
which is necessary to supply their services; 
 
(b) interconnect private leased or owned circuits with 
public telecommunications transport networks and 
 
 
 
65 
 
services or with circuits leased or owned by other 
service suppliers; and 
 
(c) use operating protocols of their choice in the supply 
of any service, other than as necessary to ensure the 
availability of telecommunications transport networks 
and services to the public generally. 
 
3. 
Each Member State shall ensure that service suppliers of 
another Member State may use public telecommunications 
transport networks and services for the movement of 
information within and across borders, including for intra-
corporate communications of such service suppliers, and for 
access to information contained in data bases or otherwise 
stored in machine-readable form in the territory of any 
Member State. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 3, a Member State may take 
measures as are necessary to: 
 
(a) ensure the security and confidentiality of messages; 
or 
 
(b) protect the personal data of end users of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services 
 
provided that such measures are not applied in a manner 
which would constitute a means of arbitrary or 
unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on 
trade in services. 
 
5. 
Each Member State shall ensure that no condition is 
imposed on access to and use of public telecommunications 
transport networks and services other than as necessary to: 
 
(a) safeguard the public service responsibilities of 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks and services, in particular their ability to 
 
 
 
66 
 
make their networks or services available to the 
public generally; or 
 
(b) protect 
the 
technical 
integrity 
of 
public 
telecommunications transport networks or services. 
 
6. 
Provided that they satisfy the criteria set out in paragraph 
5, 
conditions 
for 
access 
to 
and 
use 
of 
public 
telecommunications transport networks and services may 
include: 
 
(a) a requirement to use specified technical interfaces, 
including interface protocols, for interconnection with 
public telecommunications transport networks and 
services; 
 
(b) requirements, where necessary, for the inter-
operability of public telecommunications transport 
services and to encourage the achievement of the 
goals set out in Article 17 (Relation to International 
Organisations); 
 
(c) type approval of terminal or other equipment which 
interfaces with public telecommunications transport 
networks and technical requirements relating to the 
attachment of such equipment to such networks; 
 
(d) restrictions on interconnection of private leased or 
owned circuits with public telecommunications 
transport networks or services or with circuits leased 
or owned by other service suppliers; or 
 
(e) notification, permit, registration and licensing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 
 
Article 4 
Number Portability 
 
Each Member State shall endeavour to ensure that suppliers 
of public telecommunications transport networks or services 
in its territory provide number portability for mobile services in 
accordance with its domestic laws and regulations, to the 
extent technically and economically feasible, on a timely basis 
and on reasonable terms and conditions. 
 
 
Article 5 
Competitive Safeguard2 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall adopt or maintain appropriate 
measures for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone 
or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or 
continuing anti-competitive practices. 
 
2. 
The anti-competitive practices referred to in paragraph 1 
shall include, in particular: 
 
(a) engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidisation; 
 
(b) using information obtained from competitors with 
anti-competitive results; and 
 
(c) not making available to other suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services, 
on a timely basis, technical information about 
essential 
facilities 
and 
commercially 
relevant 
information which are necessary for them to supply 
services. 
 
 
                                      
 
2 Cambodia and Thailand commit to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
 
 
 
68 
 
Article 6 
Treatment by Major Suppliers 
 
Each Member State shall ensure that a major supplier in its 
territory accords to suppliers of public telecommunications 
transport networks and services of another Member State 
treatment no less favourable than that such major supplier 
accords in like circumstances to its subsidiaries and affiliates, 
or any non-affiliated service suppliers regarding: 
 
(a) the availability, provisioning, rates or quality of like 
telecommunications services; 3 and 
 
(b) the availability of technical interfaces necessary for 
interconnection. 
 
 
Article 7 
Resale4 
 
Each Member State shall ensure that any major supplier in its 
territory does not impose unreasonable or discriminatory 
conditions or limitations on the resale of the public 
telecommunications transport services by suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services of another 
Member State. 
 
 
 
 
                                      
 
3 Indonesia commits to apply this subparagraph by the end of 2020. 
4 
Brunei 
Darussalam 
may 
require 
that 
licensees 
who 
purchase 
public 
telecommunication services on a wholesale basis only resell their services to an end 
user. 
Cambodia commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
Indonesia commits to apply this Article once reflected in its domestic laws and 
regulations. 
Viet Nam commits to apply this Article by the end of 2020. 
 
 
 
69 
 
Article 8 
Interconnection5 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall ensure that suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks in its territory provide 
interconnection 
with 
the 
suppliers 
of 
public 
telecommunications transport networks or services of another 
Member State to the extent provided for in its domestic laws 
and regulations. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall ensure that a major supplier 
which has control over essential facilities in its territory 
provides interconnection for the facilities and equipment of 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks 
and services of another Member State at any technically 
feasible point in the network. Such interconnection shall be 
provided: 
 
(a) under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including 
technical standards and specifications) and rates and 
of a quality no less favourable than that provided for 
its own like services, or for like services of non-
affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or 
other affiliates; 
 
(b) in a timely fashion and on terms, conditions 
(including technical standards and specifications) 
and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, 
reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, 
and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier of 
public telecommunications transport networks or 
services of another Member State need not pay for 
network components or facilities that it does not 
require for the services to be provided; and 
 
                                      
 
5 Cambodia commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
 
 
 
70 
 
c) 
upon request, at points in addition to the network 
termination points offered to the majority of suppliers 
of public telecommunications transport networks and 
services, subject to charges that reflect the cost of 
construction of necessary additional facilities. 
 
3. 
Each Member State shall ensure that suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services of another 
Member State may interconnect their facilities and equipment 
with those of major suppliers which have control over essential 
facilities in its territory pursuant to at least one of the following 
options: 
 
(a) a reference interconnection offer, approved by the 
Member State’s telecommunications regulatory 
body, containing the rates, terms and conditions that 
the major supplier which has control over essential 
facilities offers generally to suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport services; 
 
(b) the 
terms 
and 
conditions 
of 
an 
existing 
interconnection agreement; or  
 
(c) a 
new 
interconnection 
agreement 
through 
commercial negotiation. 
 
4. 
Each Member State shall ensure that the procedures 
applicable for interconnection to a major supplier are made 
publicly available. 
 
5. 
Each Member State shall ensure that a major supplier in 
its territory makes publicly available either its interconnection 
agreements or reference interconnection offer. 
 
6. 
Each Member State shall ensure that a major supplier 
which has control over essential facilities does not use or 
provide commercially sensitive or confidential information on 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or 
services or end users thereof, which was acquired through its 
 
 
 
71 
 
interconnection business with telecommunications facilities of 
the suppliers of the public telecommunications transport 
networks or services, for purposes other than such 
interconnection business. 
 
 
Article 9 
Provisioning and Pricing of Leased Circuit Services 6 
 
Each Member State shall ensure that a major supplier which 
has control over essential facilities in its territory provides 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks 
and services of another Member State with leased circuit 
services that are public telecommunications transport 
networks or services on terms and conditions, and at rates, 
that are reasonable, non-discriminatory and transparent. 
 
 
Article 10 
Co-location7 
 
Each Member State shall ensure, in accordance with its 
domestic laws and regulations, that a major supplier which 
has control over essential facilities in its territory allows 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or 
services of another Member State to locate their equipment 
within the major supplier’s buildings on terms and conditions, 
including technical feasibility and space availability where 
applicable, and at rates, that are reasonable, non-
discriminatory (including with respect to timeliness) and 
transparent. 
                                      
 
6 Cambodia commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
Indonesia commits to apply this Article once reflected in its domestic laws and 
regulations. 
Viet Nam commits to apply this Article by the end of 2020. 
7 Cambodia commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
Indonesia commits to apply this Article once reflected in its domestic laws and 
regulations. 
Thailand commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
Viet Nam commits to apply this Article by the end of 2020. 
 
 
 
72 
 
 
 
Article 11 
Independent Telecommunications Regulatory Body 
 
1. 
Each 
Member 
State 
shall 
ensure 
that 
its 
telecommunications regulatory body is separate from, and not 
accountable to, any supplier of public telecommunications 
services. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall ensure that the decisions of, 
and the procedures used by, its telecommunications 
regulatory body are impartial with respect to all market 
participants. 
 
 
Article 12 
Universal Service 
 
Each Member State has the right to define the kind of 
universal service obligations it wishes to maintain. Such 
obligations shall not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, 
provided that they are administered in a transparent, non-
discriminatory and competitively neutral manner, and are not 
more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal 
service defined by the Member State. 
 
 
Article 13 
Licensing8 
 
1. 
Where a licence, concession, permit, registration or other 
type of authorisation is required for the supply of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services, each 
Member State shall make publicly available: 
 
                                      
 
8 Cambodia commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
 
 
 
73 
 
(a) all the licensing or other authorisation criteria and 
procedures, and the period of time normally required 
to reach a decision concerning an application for a 
licence, concession, permit, registration or other type 
of authorisation; and 
 
(b) the terms and conditions of individual licences, 
concessions, permits, registrations or other type of 
authorisations it has issued.9 
 
2. 
The competent authority of a Member State shall notify 
an applicant of the outcome of its application, without undue 
delay, after a decision has been taken. In case a decision is 
taken to deny an application for a licence, concession, permit, 
registration or other type of authorisation, the competent 
authority of the Member State shall make known to the 
applicant, upon request, the reason for the denial. 
 
 
Article 14 
Allocation and Use of Scarce Resources10 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall carry out its procedures for the 
allocation and use of scarce resources related to 
telecommunications, including frequencies and numbers, in 
an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory 
manner. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall make publicly available the 
current state of allocated frequency bands, but shall not be 
required to provide detailed identification of frequencies 
allocated for specific government uses. 
 
3. 
A Member State’s measures allocating and assigning 
spectrum and managing frequency are not measures that are 
                                      
 
9 For greater certainty, the terms and conditions may not include licensee specific terms 
and conditions that contain confidential information. 
10 Cambodia commits to apply this Article by the end of 2019. 
 
 
 
74 
 
per se inconsistent with Article 8 (Market Access) of this 
Agreement. Accordingly, each Member State retains the right 
to establish and apply spectrum and frequency management 
policies that have the effect of limiting the number of suppliers 
of public telecommunications transport networks or services, 
provided that it does so in a manner consistent with other 
provisions of this Agreement. Such right includes the ability to 
allocate frequency bands, taking into account current and 
future needs and spectrum availability. 
 
 
Article 15 
Transparency 
 
Each Member State shall ensure that relevant information on 
conditions 
affecting 
access 
to 
and 
use 
of 
public 
telecommunications transport networks and services is 
publicly available, including: tariffs and other terms and 
conditions of service; specifications of technical interfaces 
with such networks and services; information on bodies 
responsible for the preparation and adoption of standards 
affecting such access and use; conditions applying to 
attachment of terminal or other equipment; and notifications, 
permit, registration or licensing requirements, if any. 
 
 
Article 16 
Settlement of Telecommunication Disputes 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall ensure that suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services of another 
Member 
State 
may 
have 
timely 
recourse 
to 
its 
telecommunications regulatory body or dispute settlement 
body to settle disputes arising under this Annex in accordance 
with its domestic laws and regulations. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall ensure, in accordance with its 
domestic laws and regulations, that any supplier of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services aggrieved 
 
 
 
75 
 
by 
a 
determination 
or 
decision 
of 
its 
relevant 
telecommunications regulatory body may petition that body for 
reconsideration of that determination or decision. No Member 
State shall permit such a petition to constitute grounds for non-
compliance with such determination or decision of the said 
body, unless an appropriate authority suspends or withdraws 
such determination or decision. 
 
3. 
Each Member State shall ensure that any supplier of 
public telecommunications transport networks or services 
aggrieved by a final determination or decision of its relevant 
telecommunications regulatory body may obtain review of 
such determination or decision in accordance with its 
domestic laws and regulations. 
 
 
Article 17 
Relation to International Organisations 
 
Member States recognise the importance of international 
standards for global compatibility and inter-operability of 
telecommunications networks and services and undertake to 
promote such standards through the work of relevant 
international 
bodies, 
including 
the 
International 
Telecommunication Union and the International Organization 
for Standardization. 
 
 
Article 18 
International Mobile Roaming 
 
1. 
Member States shall endeavour to cooperate on 
promoting transparent and reasonable rates for international 
mobile roaming services that can help promote the growth of 
trade among the Member States and enhance consumer 
welfare. 
 
2. 
A Member State may choose to take steps to enhance 
transparency and competition with respect to international 
 
 
 
76 
 
mobile roaming rates and technological alternatives to 
roaming services, such as: 
 
(a) ensuring that information regarding retail rates is 
easily accessible to consumers; and 
 
(b) minimising impediments to the use of technological 
alternatives to roaming, whereby consumers when 
visiting the territory of a Member State from the 
territory of another Member State can access 
telecommunications services using the device of 
their choice. 
 
3. 
Member States recognise that a Member State may 
choose to promote competition with respect to international 
mobile 
roaming 
rates 
including 
through 
commercial 
arrangements, or to adopt or maintain measures affecting 
rates for wholesale and/or retail international roaming services 
with a view to ensuring the rates are reasonable.  If a Member 
State considers it appropriate, it may cooperate on and 
implement mechanisms with other Member States to facilitate 
the implementation of those measures, including but not 
limited to, by entering into arrangements with those Member 
States. 
 
4. 
If a Member State (“the first Member State”) chooses to 
regulate rates or conditions for wholesale and/or retail 
international mobile roaming services, it shall ensure that a 
supplier of public telecommunications services of another 
Member State (“the second Member State”) has access to the 
regulated rates or conditions for wholesale and/or retail 
international mobile roaming services for its customers 
roaming in the territory of the first Member State if the second 
Member State has entered into an arrangement with the first 
Member State to reciprocally regulate rates or conditions for 
wholesale and/or retail international mobile roaming services 
 
 
 
77 
 
for suppliers of the two Member States.11  Notwithstanding, 
the first Member State may require suppliers of the second 
Member State to fully utilise commercial negotiations to reach 
agreement on the terms for accessing such rates or 
conditions. 
 
5. 
A Member State that ensures access to regulated rates 
or conditions for wholesale and/or retail international mobile 
roaming services in accordance with paragraph 4, shall be 
deemed to be in compliance with Article 7 (Most-Favoured 
Nation Treatment) of this Agreement, and Article 3 (Access 
and Use) and Article 6 (Treatment by Major Supplier) of this 
Annex. 
 
6. 
Nothing in this Article shall require a Member State to 
regulate rates or conditions for international mobile roaming 
services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
 
11 For greater certainty: 
(a) no Member State shall, solely on the basis of any obligations owed to it by the first 
Member State under a most-favoured-nation provision, or under a telecommunications-
specific non-discrimination provision, in any international trade agreement, seek or 
obtain for its suppliers the access to regulated rates or conditions for wholesale and/or 
retail international mobile roaming services that is provided under this Article. 
(b) access to the rates or conditions regulated by the first Member State shall be 
available to a supplier of the second Member State only if the regulated rates or 
conditions are reasonably comparable to those reciprocally regulated under the 
arrangement.  The telecommunications regulatory body of first Member State shall, in 
the case of a disagreement, determine whether the rates or conditions are reasonably 
comparable. For the purposes of this footnote, rates or conditions that are reasonably 
comparable means rates or conditions agreed to be such by the relevant suppliers or, 
in the case of disagreement, determined to be such by the telecommunications 
regulatory body of first Member State. 
 
 
 
78 
 
Article 19 
International Submarine Cable Landing Station12 13 
 
1. 
Where under its domestic laws and regulations, a 
Member State has authorised a supplier of public 
telecommunications transport network in its territory to 
operate an international submarine cable landing station as a 
public telecommunications transport network, that Member 
State shall ensure that such supplier accords the suppliers of 
public telecommunications transport networks or services of 
the other Member State reasonable and non-discriminatory 
treatment in like circumstances. 
 
2. 
Where submarine cable landing facilities and services 
cannot be economically or technically substituted, each 
Member State shall ensure that any major supplier who owns 
or controls an international submarine cable landing station in 
its territory allows suppliers of the public telecommunications 
transport networks or services of the other Member States to: 
 
(i) access 
international 
submarine 
cable landing 
stations; and 
 
(ii) co-locate their transmission and routing equipment at 
the international submarine cable landing station; 
 
based on terms and conditions, and at rates, that are 
reasonable, non-discriminatory and transparent. 
                                      
 
12 Indonesia will apply this Article to the extent provided for under its domestic laws and 
regulations. 
13 For Viet Nam: 
(i) This Article shall only apply to major suppliers who own or control international 
submarine cable landing stations in the territory of Viet Nam; 
(ii) Under Paragraph 2(i), access to international submarine cable landing stations 
shall comply with relevant domestic laws and regulations of Viet Nam; and  
(iii) Under Paragraph 2(ii), co-location for international submarine cable landing 
stations owned or controlled by the major supplier in the territory of Viet Nam 
shall exclude physical co-location. It may include virtual co-location. 
