ANNEX 5  
 
PRINCIPLES AND GUIDELINES FOR CALCULATING REGIONAL 
VALUE CONTENT ON THE ATIGA 
 
 
A.  Principles to Determine Cost for Regional Value Content 
 
i.  Materiality  –  all  cost  material  to  the  evaluation, 
assessment and determination of origin; 
 
ii.  Consistency  –  costing  allocation  method  should  be 
consistent unless justified by commercial reality; 
 
iii.  Reliability  –  costing  information  must  be  reliable  and 
supported by appropriate information; 
 
iv.  Relevance – costs must be allocated based on objective 
and quantifiable data; 
 
v.  Accuracy  –  costing  methodology  should  provide  an 
accurate representation of the cost element in question; 
 
vi.  Application  of  GAAP  of  the  exporting  country  – 
costing information must be prepared in accordance with 
the  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  and  this 
includes the avoidance of double-counting of cost items; 
 
vii.  Currency  –  updated  costing  information  from  existing 
accounting and costing records of companies should be 
used to calculate origin. 
 
 
B.  Guidelines for Costing Methodologies  
 
i.  Actual Costs – basis for actual costs should be defined 
by the company.  Actual costs should include all direct 
and indirect costs incurred in producing the product; 
 
ii.  Projected and Budgeted Costs – projected costs may 
be  used  if  it  is  justified.  Companies  should  provide 
variance analysis and proof during the period origin is 
claimed to indicate accuracy of projections; 
 
  429iii.  Standards Costs – the basis for standards costs should 
be  indicated.  Companies should provide evidence  that 
the costs are used for accounting purposes;  
 
iv.  Average/Moving Average Costs – average costs may 
be  used  if  justified;  the  basis  for  calculating  average 
costs, including time period, etc. should be highlighted.  
Companies should provide variance analysis and proof 
during the period origin is claimed to indicate accuracy of 
average costs; 
 
v.  Fixed  Costs  –  fixed  costs  should  be  apportioned 
according  to  sound  cost  accounting  principles.    They 
should be a representative reflection of unit costs for the 
company in the particular period in question. The method 
for apportionment should be indicated.  
 
 
  430