ATTACHMENT 1 
 
SUBSTANTIAL TRANSFORMATION CRITERION 
FOR TEXTILES AND TEXTILE PRODUCTS 
 
 
1.  Textile material or article shall be deemed to be originating in a Member State, when it has 
undergone, prior to the importation to another Member State, any of the following: 
 
i.  Petrochemicals  which  have  undergone  the  process  of  polymerization  or 
polycondensation or any chemicals or physical processes to form a polymer; 
 
ii.  Polymer which has undergone the process of melt spinning or extrusion to form a 
synthetic fiber; 
 
iii.  Spinning fiber into yarn; 
 
iv.  Weaving, knitting or otherwise forming fabric; 
 
v.  Cutting fabric into parts and the assembly of those parts into a completed article; 
 
vi.  Dyeing of fabric, if it is accompanied by any finishing operation which has the effect 
of rendering the dyed good directly; 
 
vii.  Printing of fabric, if it is accompanied by any finishing operation which has the effect 
of rendering the printed good directly usable; 
 
viii.  Impregnation or coating when such treatment leads to the manufacture of a new 
product falling within certain headings of customs tariffs; 
 
ix.  Embroidery  which  represents  at  least  five  percent  of  the  total  area  of  the 
embroidered good. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding any provisions in Chapter 3 of this Agreement, an article or material shall 
not be considered to be originating in the territory of a Member State by virtue of merely having 
undergone any of the following: 
  
i.  Simple  combining  operations,  labeling,  pressing,  cleaning  or  dry  cleaning  or 
packaging operations, or any combination thereof; 
 
ii.  Cutting to length or width and hemming, stitching or overlocking fabrics which are 
readily identifiable as being intended for a particular commercial use; 
 
iii.  Trimming and/or joining together by sewing, looping, linking, attaching of accessory 
articles such as straps, bands, beads, cords, rings and eyelets; 
 
Page 1 of 40 
 iv.  One or more finishing operations on yarns, fabrics or other textile articles, such as 
bleaching, waterproofing, decating, shrinking, mercerizing, or similar operations; or 
 
v.  Dyeing or printing of fabrics or yarns. 
 
3.  The  following  items  made  of  non-originating  textile  materials  shall  be  considered  as 
originating good if it has undergone the processes identified in paragraph 1 but not merely performing 
the processes identified in paragraph 2: 
 
i.  Handkerchiefs; 
ii.  Shawls, scarves, veils, and the like; 
iii.  Travelling rugs and blankets; 
iv.  Bed linen, pillow cases, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen; 
v.  Sacks and bags, of a kind used for packing of goods; 
vi.  Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds; 
vii.  Floor cloths, and dish cloths and other similar articles simply made up. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding the above paragraph, non-originating textile material covered in the list 
stated below shall be deemed to be originating in a Members State if it satisfies the working or 
processing set out therein. 
 
A.  Fibres and yarns 
 
Working or Processing Carried Out on Non-Originating Materials that Confers Originating Status: 
 
  Manufacture through process of fibre-making (polymerisation, polycondensation and extrusion) 
spinning, twisting, texturizing or braiding from a blend or any following: 
 
o  Silk 
o  Wool, fine/coarse animal hair 
o  Cotton fibres 
o  Vegetable textile fibres 
o  Synthetic or artificial filaments/man-made filaments 
o  Synthetic or artificial staple fibres/man-made staple fibres 
Page 2 of 40 
 Page 3 of 40 
 Page 4 of 40 
 Page 5 of 40 
 Page 6 of 40 
 Page 7 of 40 
 Page 8 of 40 
 Page 9 of 40 
  
 
   
Page 10 of 40 
 B.  Fabric/Carpets and Other Textile Floor Coverings; Special Yarns, Twine, Cordage and 
Ropes and Cables and Articles thereof. 
 
Working or Processing Carried Out on Non-Originating Materials that Confers Originating Status: 
 
  Manufacture from: 
 
o  Polymer (non-woven) 
o  Fibres (non-woven) 
o  Yarns (fabrics) 
o  Raw or Unbleached Fabrics (finished fabrics) 
 
  through substantial transformation process of either: 
 
o  needle punching / spin bonding / chemical bonding 
o  weaving or knitting; 
o  crocheting or wadding or tufting; or 
o  dyeing or printing and finishing; or impregnation, coating, covering or lamination. 
 
 
Page 11 of 40 
 Page 12 of 40 
 Page 13 of 40 
 Page 14 of 40 
 Page 15 of 40 
 Page 16 of 40 
 Page 17 of 40 
 Page 18 of 40 
 Page 19 of 40 
 Page 20 of 40 
 Page 21 of 40 
 Page 22 of 40 
 Page 23 of 40 
 Page 24 of 40 
 Page 25 of 40 
  
 
   
Page 26 of 40 
 C.  Article of Apparel and Clothing Accessories and Other Made Up Textile Articles 
 
Working or Processing Carried Out on Non-Originating Materials that Confers Originating Status: 
 
  Manufacture through the processes of cutting and assembly of parts into a complete article 
(for apparel and tents) and incorporating embroidery or embellishment or printing (for made-
up articles) from: 
 
o  raw or unbleached fabric 
o  finished fabric 
 
 
 
Page 27 of 40 
 Page 28 of 40 
 Page 29 of 40 
 Page 30 of 40 
 Page 31 of 40 
 Page 32 of 40 
 Page 33 of 40 
 Page 34 of 40 
 Page 35 of 40 
 Page 36 of 40 
 Page 37 of 40 
 Page 38 of 40 
 Page 39 of 40 
  
 
Page 40 of 40 
 