79 
ANNEX ON 
AIR TRANSPORT ANCILLARY SERVICES 
 
 
1. 
Aircraft Repair and Maintenance Services means 
such activities when undertaken on an aircraft or a part 
thereof while it is withdrawn from service and do not 
include so-called line maintenance. 
 
2. 
Selling and Marketing of Air Transport Services 
means opportunities for the air carrier concerned to sell 
and market freely its air transport services including all 
aspects of marketing such as market research, 
advertising and distribution. These activities do not 
include the pricing of air transport services nor the 
applicable conditions. 
 
3. 
Computer Reservation System (CRS) Services 
means services provided by computerised systems that 
contain information about air carriers' schedules, 
availability, fares and fare rules, through which 
reservations can be made or tickets may be issued.  
 
4. 
Aircraft Leasing without Crew means the lease of an 
aircraft without crew is normally referred to as a "dry 
lease", Under most lease agreements the lessee who 
provides the crew is the responsible party who must 
exercise operational control over the aircraft with all the 
attendant responsibilities.  
 
5. 
Aircraft Leasing with Crew means the lease of an 
aircraft with crew provided is normally referred to as a 
"wet lease". In wet lease the lessor normally exercises 
operational control of the aircraft. Usually the wet lease 
situation means the aircraft should be operated under an 
Air Operator Certificate (AOC) issued by the competent 
authority of the State of Registry of the aircraft. 
 
80 
6. 
Airfreight Forwarding Services means the activity and 
arrangement of air transport and related services 
provided 
to 
or 
performed 
on 
behalf 
of 
the 
shipper/consignee for the transportation of goods by air 
from port of origin to final destination. 
 
Scope of services includes the following services: 
 
(i) 
securing cargo space with airline; 
 
(ii) 
preparing necessary export/import document; 
 
(iii) 
processing customs formalities; 
 
(iv) 
pick-up and delivery; 
 
(v) 
packing/warehousing;  
 
(vi) 
freight consolidation & break-bulk; 
 
(vii) door to door and logistics services; and 
 
(viii) inland freight services. 
 
7. 
Cargo Handling means services provided or arranged 
for warehouse, facilities, and services for storage and 
handling of any type of shipment that are transported by 
air. Cargo handling services cover physical handling of 
outbound/inbound, transit shipments, document handling 
of outbound inbound, transit shipments, irregularities 
handling, control of Unit Load Device (ULD), and 
services relate to customs control.  
 
8. 
Aircraft 
Catering 
Services 
means 
the 
preparation/production of food and beverages for 
airlines, 
including 
loading/unloading 
of 
catering 
equipment and supplies, arrangement of bar cart, 
magazines, flowers, souvenirs and miscellaneous items 
81 
to/from aircraft, washing, cleaning, storing of catering 
equipment and laundering of cabin linen ware. 
 
9. 
Refuelling Services means the management and 
operation of fuel tankers for aircraft and airport motor 
vehicles and distribution of fuelling products. (United 
Nations CPC 74220, 74610, 61300, 62113. 62271)  
 
10. Aircraft Line Maintenance means routine and non-
routine inspection and malfunction ratification performed 
en route and at base station with turnaround time up to 
24 hours. 
 
11. Ramp Handling means services provided by ground 
support equipment to an aircraft upon arrival, during 
parking until departure. 
 
The services include the following facilities: 
 
(i) 
Ground Support Equipment (GSE) i.e. aircraft 
towing tractor, air condition unit, air start unit, 
ground power unit, loading equipment, ULDs; 
 
(ii) 
ramp bus services to transfer passengers and 
crews to and from the aircraft to the passenger 
terminal; 
 
(iii) 
security services to the aircraft as well as 
passengers in the ramp area; 
 
(iii) 
toilet and aircraft interior cleaning servicing; 
 
(iv) 
portable water servicing; 
 
(v) 
post and mail servicing; and 
 
(vi) 
GSE and ULDs maintenance. 
 
82 
12. Baggage Handling means a process on departure and 
arrival system at terminals. On departure, baggage 
handling consists of three activities: (1) in-town check-in 
passenger checks outside the airport boundary; (2) 
check-in at the airport terminal; and (3) check-in 
passenger carries baggage at the aircraft gate and 
check-in at that point. On arrival, baggage handling 
consists of three activities: (1) off-loading of baggage 
from the aircraft; (2) transport of baggage between 
aircraft and reclaim area; and (3) loading of baggage 
onto the reclaim unit.  
 
13. Passenger Handling means responsibility in providing 
services to passengers from check-in point to aircraft 
side as per the carrier's procedures and instructions. 
