 
 
1
 
 
 
ASEAN TRADE IN GOODS AGREEMENT 
 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, 
the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao 
PDR), Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the 
Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and 
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member States of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
“Member States” or singularly as “Member State”): 
 
RECALLING the Leaders’ decision to establish the ASEAN 
Community, comprising three pillars, namely the ASEAN Political-
Security Community (APSC), the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) 
and the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC), made in the 
Declaration of ASEAN Concord II signed on 7 October 2003 in Bali, 
Indonesia, and in the ASEAN Charter signed  on 20 November 2007 in 
Singapore; 
 
DETERMINED to realise the goals of establishing ASEAN as a single 
market and production base characterised by free flow of goods, 
services, investment, skilled labour and freer flow of capital envisaged 
in the ASEAN Charter and the Declaration on the ASEAN Economic 
Community Blueprint signed by the Leaders on 20 November 2007 in 
Singapore; 
 
RECOGNISING the significant achievements and contribution of the 
existing ASEAN economic agreements and instruments in various 
areas in facilitating free flow of goods in the region, including the 
Agreement on ASEAN Preferential Trading Arrangements (1977), the 
Agreement on the Common Effective Preferential Tariff Scheme for the 
ASEAN Free Trade Area (1992), the ASEAN Agreement on Customs 
(1997), the ASEAN Framework Agreement on Mutual Recognition 
Arrangements (1998), the e-ASEAN Framework Agreement (2000), the 
Protocol Governing the Implementation of the ASEAN Harmonised 
Tariff Nomenclature (2003), the ASEAN Framework Agreement for the 
Integration of Priority Sectors (2004), the Agreement to Establish and 
Implement the ASEAN Single Window (2005);  
 
DESIRING to move forward by developing a comprehensive ASEAN 
Trade in Goods Agreement which is built upon the commitments under 
the existing ASEAN economic agreements to provide a legal 
framework to realise free flow of goods in the region;  
 
 
2
 
CONFIDENT that a comprehensive ASEAN Trade in Goods 
Agreement would minimise barriers and deepen economic linkages 
among Member States, lower business costs, increase trade, 
investment and economic efficiency, create a larger market with 
greater opportunities and larger economies of scale for the businesses 
of Member States and create and maintain a competitive investment 
area; 
 
RECOGNISING the different stages of economic development 
between and among Member States and the need to address the 
development gaps and facilitate increasing participation of the  Member 
States, especially  Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam, in the 
AEC through the provision of flexibility and technical and development 
co-operation; 
 
RECOGNISING 
FURTHER 
the 
provisions 
of 
the 
ministerial 
declarations of the World Trade Organization on measures in favour of 
least-developed countries; 
 
ACKNOWLEDGING  the important role and contribution of the 
business sector in enhancing trade and investment among Member 
States and the need to further promote and facilitate their participation 
through the various ASEAN business associations in the realisation of 
the ASEAN Economic Community; and 
RECOGNISING the role of regional trade arrangements as a catalyst in 
accelerating regional and global trade liberalisation and trade 
facilitation and as building blocks in the framework of the multilateral 
trading system; 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
 
CHAPTER 1 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 1 
Objective 
 
The objective of this Agreement is to achieve free flow of goods in 
ASEAN as one of the principal means to establish a single market and 
production base for the deeper economic integration of the region 
towards the realisation of the AEC by 2015.  
 
Article 2 
General Definitions 
 
 
3
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
 
(a) 
ASEAN means the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations, which comprises  Brunei Darussalam, the 
Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, Lao 
PDR, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of 
the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom 
of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam; 
 
(b) 
customs authorities means the competent authorities 
that are responsible under the law of a Member State for 
the administration of customs laws; 
(c) 
customs duties means any customs or import duty and 
a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the 
importation of a good, but does not include any: 
 
(i) 
charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed 
consistently with the provisions of paragraph 2 of 
Article III of GATT 1994, in respect of the like 
domestic goods or in respect of goods from which 
the imported goods have been manufactured or 
produced in whole or in part; 
 
(ii) 
anti-dumping 
or 
countervailing 
duty 
applied 
consistent with the provisions of Article VI of GATT 
1994, the Agreement on Implementation of Article 
VI of GATT 1994, and the Agreement on Subsidies 
and Countervailing Measures in Annex 1A to the 
WTO Agreement; or 
 
(iii) 
fee or any charge commensurate with the cost of 
services rendered. 
 
(d) 
customs laws means such laws and regulations 
administered and enforced by the customs authorities of 
each 
Member 
State 
concerning 
the 
importation, 
exportation, transit, transhipment, and storage of goods 
as they relate to customs duties, charges, and other 
taxes, or to prohibitions, restrictions, and other similar 
controls with respect to the movement of controlled items 
across the boundary of the customs territory of each 
Member State;  
 
 
 
4
(e) 
customs value of goods means the value of goods for 
the purposes of levying ad valorem customs duties on 
imported goods; 
(f) 
days means calendar days, including weekends and 
holidays; 
 
(g) 
foreign exchange restrictions means measures taken 
by Member States in the form of restrictions and other 
administrative procedures in foreign exchange which 
have the effect of restricting trade; 
 
(h) 
GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and 
Trade 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary 
Provisions, contained in Annex 1A to the WTO 
Agreement; 
 
(i) 
Harmonized System or HS means the Harmonized 
Commodity Description and Coding System set out in the 
Annex to the International Convention on the Harmonized 
Commodity Description and Coding System, including 
any amendments adopted and implemented by the 
Member States in their respective laws; 
 
(j) 
MFN means Most-Favoured-Nation treatment in the 
WTO; 
 
(k) 
non-tariff barriers means measures other than tariffs 
which effectively prohibit or restrict imports or exports of 
goods within Member States; 
 
(l) 
originating goods means goods that qualify as 
originating in a Member State in accordance with the 
provisions of Chapter 3; 
 
(m) 
preferential tariff treatment means tariff concessions 
granted to originating goods as reflected by the tariff rates 
applicable under this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
quantitative restrictions means measures intended to 
prohibit or restrict quantity of trade with other Member 
States, whether made effective through quotas, licences 
or other measures with equivalent effect, including 
administrative measures and requirements which restrict 
trade; 
 
 
5
 
(o) 
this Agreement or ATIGA means the ASEAN Trade in 
Goods Agreement; 
 
(p) 
WTO means the World Trade Organization; and 
 
(q) 
WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement 
Establishing the World Trade Organization, done on 15 
April 1994 and the other agreements negotiated 
thereunder. 
 
2. 
In this Agreement, all words in the singular shall include the 
plural and all words in the plural shall include the singular, unless 
otherwise indicated in the context. 
 
Article 3 
Classification of Goods 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the classification of goods in trade 
between and among Member States shall be in accordance with the 
ASEAN Harmonised Tariff Nomenclature (AHTN) as set out in the 
Protocol Governing the Implementation of the ASEAN Harmonised 
Tariff Nomenclature signed on 7 August 2003 and any amendments 
thereto. 
 
Article 4 
Product Coverage 
 
This Agreement shall apply to all products under the ASEAN 
Harmonised Tariff Nomenclature (AHTN). 
 
Article 5 
Most Favoured Nation Treatment 
 
With respect to import duties, after this Agreement enters into force, if a 
Member State enters into any agreement with a non-Member State 
where commitments are more favourable than that accorded under this 
Agreement, the other Member States have the right to request for 
negotiations with that Member State to request for the incorporation 
herein of treatment no less favourable than that provided under the 
aforesaid agreement. The decision to extend such tariff preference will 
be on a unilateral basis. The extension of such tariff preference shall 
be accorded to all Member States. 
 
Article 6 
 
 
6
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation 
 
Each Member State shall accord national treatment to the goods of the 
other Member States in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994.  To 
this end, Article III of GATT 1994 is incorporated into and shall form 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 7 
Fees and Charges Connected with Importation and Exportation 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall ensure, in accordance with Article 
VIII.1 of GATT 1994, that all fees and charges of whatever character 
(other than import or export duties, charges equivalent to an internal 
tax or other internal charge applied consistently with Article III.2 of 
GATT 1994, and anti-dumping and countervailing duties) imposed on 
or in connection with import or export are limited in amount to the 
approximate cost of services rendered and do not represent an indirect 
protection to domestic goods or a taxation on imports or exports for 
fiscal purposes. 
2. 
Each Member State shall promptly publish details of the fees 
and charges that it imposes in connection with importation or 
exportation, and shall make such information available on the internet. 
 
Article 8 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a 
manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable 
discrimination among Member States where the same conditions 
prevail, or a disguised restriction on international trade, nothing in this 
Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement 
by a Member State of measures: 
 
(a) 
necessary to protect public morals; 
 
(b) 
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
 
(c) 
relating to the importations or exportations of gold or 
silver; 
 
(d) 
necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations 
which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, 
including 
those 
relating 
to 
customs 
enforcement, the enforcement of monopolies operated 
under paragraph 4 of Article II and Article XVII of GATT 
 
 
7
1994, the protection of patents, trademarks and 
copyrights, and the prevention of deceptive practices; 
 
(e) 
relating to the products of prison labour; 
 
(f) 
imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic, 
historic or archaeological value; 
 
(g) 
relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural 
resources if such measures are made effective in 
conjunction with restrictions on domestic production or 
consumption; 
 
(h) 
undertaken in pursuance of the obligations under any 
intergovernmental commodity agreement which conforms 
to criteria submitted to the WTO and not disapproved by it 
or which is itself so submitted and not so disapproved; 
 
(i) 
involving restrictions on exports of domestic materials 
necessary to ensure essential quantities of such 
materials to a domestic processing industry during 
periods when the domestic price of such materials is held 
below the world price as part of a governmental 
stabilisation plan, provided that such restrictions shall not 
operate to increase the exports of or the protection 
afforded to such domestic industry, and shall not depart 
from the provisions of this Agreement relating to non-
discrimination; and 
 
(j) 
essential to the acquisition or distribution of products in 
general or local short supply, provided that any such 
measures shall be consistent with the principle that all 
Member States are entitled to an equitable share of the 
international supply of such products, and that any such 
measures, which are inconsistent with the other 
provisions of this Agreement shall be discontinued as 
soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased to 
exist. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 9 
Security Exceptions 
 
 
8
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:  
 
(a) 
to require any Member State to furnish any information, 
the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its 
essential security interests; or 
 
(b) 
to prevent any Member State from taking any action 
which it considers necessary for the protection of its 
essential security interests: 
 
(i) 
relating to fissionable materials or the materials 
from which they are derived; 
 
(ii) 
relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and 
implements of war and to such traffic in other 
goods and materials as is carried on directly or 
indirectly for the purpose of supplying a military 
establishment; 
 
(iii) 
taken so as to protect critical public infrastructure, 
including 
communications, 
power 
and 
water 
infrastructures, from deliberate attempts intended 
to disable or degrade such infrastructure; 
 
(iv) 
taken in time of domestic emergency, or war or 
other emergency in international relations; or  
 
(c) 
to prevent any Member State from taking any action in 
pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations 
Charter for the maintenance of international peace and 
security. 
 
 
 
Article 10 
Measures to Safeguard the Balance-of-Payments 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Member 
State from taking any measure for balance-of-payments purposes.  A 
Member State taking such measure shall do so in accordance with the 
conditions established under Article XII of GATT 1994 and the 
Understanding on Balance-of-Payments Provisions of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
9
Article 11 
Notification Procedures 
 
1. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, Member States 
shall notify any action or measure that they intend to take: 
 
(a)  
which may nullify or impair any benefit to other Member 
States, directly or indirectly under this Agreement; or 
 
(b)  
when the action or measure may impede the attainment 
of any objective of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Without affecting the generality of the obligations of Member 
States under paragraph 1 of this Article, the notification procedures 
shall apply, but need not be limited, to changes in the measures as 
listed in Annex 1 and amendments thereto. 
 
3.  
A Member State shall make a notification to Senior Economic 
Officials Meeting (SEOM) and the ASEAN Secretariat before effecting 
such action or measure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, notification shall be 
made at least sixty (60) days before such an action or measure is to 
take effect. A Member State proposing to apply an action or measure 
shall provide adequate opportunity for prior discussion with those 
Member States having an interest in the action or measure concerned. 
 
4. 
The notification of the intended action or measure submitted by 
a Member State shall include: 
 
(a) 
a description of the action or measure to be taken; 
 
(b) 
the reasons for undertaking the action or measure; and 
 
(c) 
the intended date of implementation and the duration of 
the action or measure. 
 
5.  
The contents of the notification and all information relating to it 
shall be treated with confidentiality. 
 
6. 
The ASEAN Secretariat shall act as the central registry of 
notifications, including written comments and results of discussions. 
The Member State concerned shall furnish the ASEAN Secretariat with 
a copy of the comments received. The ASEAN Secretariat shall draw 
the attention of individual Member States to notification requirements, 
such as those stipulated in paragraph 4 of this Article, which remain 
 
 
10
incomplete. The ASEAN Secretariat shall make available information 
regarding individual notifications on request to any Member State. 
 
7. 
The Member State concerned shall, without discrimination, allow 
adequate opportunities for other Member States to present their 
comments in writing and discuss these comments upon request. 
Discussions entered into by the Member State concerned with other 
Member States shall be for the purpose of seeking further clarification 
about the action or measure. The Member State may give due 
consideration to these written comments and the discussion in the 
implementation of the action or measure. 
8.  
Other Member States shall present their comments within fifteen 
(15) days of the notification. Failure of a Member State to provide 
comments within the stipulated time shall not affect its right to seek 
recourse under Article 88.  
 
Article 12 
Publication and Administration of Trade Regulations 
 
1.  
Article X of GATT 1994 shall be incorporated into and form an 
integral part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.   
To the extent possible, each Member State shall make laws, 
regulations, decisions and rulings of the kind referred to in Article X of 
GATT 1994 available on the internet. 
 
Article 13 
ASEAN Trade Repository 
 
1. 
An ASEAN Trade Repository containing trade and customs laws 
and procedures of all Member States shall be established and made 
accessible to the public through the internet. 
 
2. 
The ASEAN Trade Repository shall contain trade related 
information such as (i) tariff nomenclature; (ii) MFN tariffs,  preferential 
tariffs offered under this Agreement and other Agreements of ASEAN 
with its Dialogue Partners; (iii) Rules of Origin; (iv) non-tariff measures; 
(v) national trade and customs laws and rules; (vi) procedures and 
documentary requirements; (vii) administrative rulings; (viii) best 
practices in trade facilitation applied by  each Member State; and (ix) 
list of authorised traders of Member States. 
 
3. 
The ASEAN Secretariat shall maintain and update the ASEAN 
Trade Repository based on the notifications submitted by Member 
States as set out in Article 11. 
 
 
 
11
 
 
Article 14 
Confidentiality 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall require a Member State to 
provide confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede 
law enforcement of the Member State, or otherwise be contrary to the 
public interest, or which would prejudice legitimate commercial 
interests of any particular enterprise, public or private. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a 
Member State to provide information relating to the affairs and 
accounts of customers of financial institutions. 
 
3. 
Each Member State shall, in accordance with its laws and 
regulations, maintain the confidentiality of information provided as 
confidential by another Member State pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the above, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article 
shall not apply to Chapter 6.   
 
Article 15 
Communications 
 
All official communications and documentation exchanged among the 
Member States relating to the implementation of this Agreement shall 
be in writing and in the English language. 
 
Article 16 
Participation Enhancement of Member States 
 
Enhancing participation of Member States shall be facilitated through a 
negotiated pre-agreed flexibility on provisions under this Agreement. 
Such pre-agreed flexibility shall be captured in the respective 
provisions hereunder. 
 
 
Article 17 
Capacity Building 
 
Capacity building shall be provided through effective implementation of 
programmes to strengthen individual Member States’ domestic 
capacity, efficiency and competitiveness, such as the Work Programme 
under the Initiative for ASEAN Integration (IAI) and other capacity 
building initiatives. 
 
 
12
 
Article 18 
Regional and Local Government and Non-Governmental Bodies 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall take such reasonable measures as 
may be available to it to ensure observance of provisions of this 
Agreement by the regional and local government and authorities within 
its territories. 
 
2. 
In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under this 
Agreement, each Member State shall endeavour to ensure their 
observance by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers 
delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities within 
its territory.  
 
 
CHAPTER 2 
TARIFF LIBERALISATION 
 
Article 19 
Reduction or Elimination of Import Duties 
 
1. 
 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Member 
States shall eliminate import duties on all products traded between the 
Member States by 2010 for ASEAN-61 and by 2015, with flexibility to 
2018, for CLMV2. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall reduce and/or eliminate import duties 
on originating goods of the other Member States in accordance with 
the following modalities: 
 
(a) 
Import duties on the products listed in Schedule A of 
each Member State’s tariff liberalisation schedule shall be 
eliminated by 2010 for ASEAN-6 and 2015 for CLMV, in 
accordance with the schedule set out therein. Schedule A 
of each Member State shall ensure the following 
conditions are met: 
 
(i) 
For ASEAN-6, by 1 January 2009: 
 
- 
Import duties of at least eighty percent (80%) 
                                                 
1 “ASEAN-6” refers to Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, 
Singapore and Thailand. 
 
2 “CLMV” refers to Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam. 
 
 
13
tariff lines are eliminated; 
 
- 
Import 
duties 
on 
all 
Information 
and 
Communications Technology (ICT) products, 
as defined in the e-ASEAN Framework 
Agreement, are eliminated; 
 
- 
Import duties on all Priority Integration Sectors 
(PIS) products are at zero percent (0%), except 
those listed in the accompanying negative lists 
to the Protocols of the ASEAN Framework 
Agreement for the Integration of Priority 
Sectors and any amendments thereto; and 
 
 
- 
Import duties on all products are equal to or 
less than five percent (5%); 
 
(ii) 
For Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam, import 
duties on all products are equal to or less than five 
percent (5%) by 1 January 2009;  
 
(iii) 
For Cambodia, import duties of at least eighty 
percent (80%) tariff lines are equal to or less than 
five percent (5%) by 1 January 2009; and 
 
(iv) 
Import duties on some products of CLMV, not 
exceeding seven percent (7%) of tariff lines, shall 
be eliminated by 2018. The list of the products and 
schedule of import duties reduction of these 
products shall be identified by CLMV no later than 
1 January 2014; 
 
(b) 
Import duties on ICT products listed in Schedule B of 
each CLMV Member State shall be eliminated in three (3) 
tranches by 2008, 2009 and 2010 in accordance with the 
schedule set out therein; 
 
(c) 
Import duties on PIS products listed in Schedule C of 
each CLMV Member State shall be eliminated by 2012 in 
accordance with the schedule set out therein; 
 
(d) 
Import duties on unprocessed agricultural products listed 
in Schedule D of each Member State on its own accord 
shall be reduced or eliminated to zero to five percent (0-
5%) by 2010 for ASEAN-6; 2013 for Viet Nam; 2015 for 
 
 
14
Lao PDR and Myanmar; and 2017 for Cambodia, in 
accordance 
with 
the 
schedule 
set 
out 
therein. 
Notwithstanding this, import duties on sugar products of 
Viet Nam shall be reduced to zero to five percent (0-5%) 
by 2010; 
 
(e) 
Unprocessed agricultural products placed in Schedule E 
of each Member State on its own accord shall have their 
respective applied MFN import duties reduced in 
accordance with the schedule set out therein; 
 
(f) 
The products listed in Schedule F of Thailand and Viet 
Nam, respectively, shall have their out-quota tariff rates 
reduced in accordance with the tariff reduction schedules 
corresponding to their respective product classification;  
 
(g) 
Import duties on petroleum products listed in Schedule G 
of Cambodia and Viet Nam, respectively, shall be 
reduced in accordance with the schedule as mutually 
agreed by all Member States and set out therein; 
 
(h) 
The products placed in Schedule H of each Member 
State shall not be subject to import duties reduction or 
elimination for the reasons as provided in Article 8; 
 
(i) 
Reduction and elimination of import duties shall be 
implemented on 1 January of each year; and 
 
(j) 
The base rates from which import duties are to be 
reduced or eliminated shall be the Common Effective 
Preferential Tariffs (CEPT) rates at the time of entry into 
force of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Member 
State shall nullify or impair any tariff concessions applied in accordance 
with the tariff schedules in Annex 2 referred to in paragraph 5 of this 
Article. 
4.       Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Member 
State may increase an existing duty specified in the schedules made 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article on imports of 
an originating good. 
 
5. 
Except as provided in paragraph 2(a)(iv) of this Article, the 
detailed tariff schedules to implement the modalities of reduction and/or 
elimination of import duties set out in paragraph 2 of this Article shall 
be finalised before the entry into force of this Agreement for ASEAN-6 
 
 
15
and six (6) months after the entry into force of this Agreement for 
CLMV, and form an integral part of this Agreement as Annex 2.  
 
Article 20 
Elimination of Tariff Rate Quotas  
 
1. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Member 
State undertakes not to introduce Tariff Rate Quotas (TRQs) on the 
importation of any goods originating in other Member States or on the 
exportation of any goods destined for the territory of the other Member 
States. 
 
2. 
Viet Nam and Thailand shall eliminate the existing TRQs as 
follows: 
 
 
(a) 
Thailand shall eliminate in three (3) tranches by 1 
January 2008, 2009 and 2010;  
 
 
(b) 
Viet Nam shall eliminate in three (3) tranches by 1 
January 2013, 2014 and 2015, with flexibility up to 2018. 
 
Article 21 
Issuance of Legal Enactments 
 
1. 
(a) 
Each Member State shall, no later than ninety (90) days 
for ASEAN-6 and six (6) months for CLMV after the entry 
into force of this Agreement, issue a legal enactment in 
accordance with its laws and regulations to give effect to 
the implementation of the tariff liberalisation schedules 
committed under Article 19. 
 
 
(b) 
The legal enactments issued pursuant to paragraph 1(a) 
of this Article shall have retroactive implementation with 
effect from 1 January of the year of the entry into force of 
this Agreement.  
 
 
(c) 
In the case where a single legal enactment could not be 
issued, the legal enactments to give effect to the 
implementation of tariff reduction or elimination of each 
year shall be issued at least three (3) months before the 
date of its effective implementation. 
 
2. 
Member States may decide to conduct reviews of the products 
in Schedules D and E with a view to improving the market access for 
these products. If a product subject to the review is agreed to be 
phased out of the said Schedules, it will be placed in Schedule A of the 
 
 
16
respective Member State(s) and be subjected to the import duty 
elimination of that Schedule. 
 
Article 22 
Enjoyment of Concessions 
 
1. 
Products on which tariffs of the exporting Member State have 
reached or are at the rate of twenty percent (20%) or below, and satisfy 
the requirements on rules of origin as set out in Chapter 3 shall 
automatically enjoy the concessions offered by importing Member 
States as stated in accordance with the provisions of Article 19. 
 
2. 
Products listed in Schedule H shall not be entitled for tariff 
concessions offered under this Agreement. 
 
Article 23 
Temporary Modification or Suspension of Concessions 
 
1. 
In exceptional circumstances other than those covered under 
Article 10, Article 24 and Article 86 where a Member State faces 
unforeseen difficulties in implementing its tariff commitments, that 
Member State may temporarily modify or suspend a concession 
contained in its Schedules under Article 19.  
 
2. 
A Member State which seeks to invoke the provision of 
paragraph 1 of this Article (hereinafter referred to as the “applicant 
Member State”), shall notify in writing of such temporary modification or 
suspension of concessions to the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) 
Council at least one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the date 
when the temporary modification or suspension of concessions is to 
take effect. 
 
3. 
Member States who are interested in engaging in consultations 
or negotiations with the applicant Member State, pursuant to paragraph 
4 of this Article, shall notify all ASEAN Member States of this interest 
within ninety (90) days following the applicant Member State’s 
notification 
of 
the 
temporary 
modification 
or 
suspension 
of 
concessions. 
 
4. 
After making the notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Article, the applicant Member State shall engage in consultations or 
negotiations with the Member States who have made notification 
pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article.  In negotiations with Member 
 
 
17
States with substantial supplying interest3, the applicant Member State 
shall maintain a level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous 
concessions no less favourable to the trade of all other Member States 
of substantial supplying interest than that provided in this Agreement 
prior to such negotiations, which may include compensatory 
adjustments with respect to other goods. Compensatory adjustment 
measures in form of tariffs shall be extended to all Member States on a 
non-discriminatory basis.  
 
5. 
The AFTA Council shall be notified of the outcome of the 
consultations or negotiations pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this 
Article at least forty five (45) days before the applicant Member State 
intends to effect the temporary modification or suspension of 
concessions.  The notification shall include the applicant Member 
State’s justifications for needing to adopt such measures and shall 
provide the Member State’s intended schedule pertaining to the 
modification or suspension of concessions and the time period for 
which the Member State intends to apply the measures.  
 
6. 
In the event that no agreement is reached after the consultations 
or negotiations pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, the 
notification to the AFTA Council shall also include the request for the 
AFTA Council’s recommendation. 
 
7. 
The AFTA Council shall issue its approval or recommendation 
within thirty (30) days upon receipt of the notification pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of this Article.  
 
8. 
In the event that the circumstances giving rise to the request for 
the temporary modification or suspension of concessions cease to 
exist, the applicant Member State shall immediately restore the tariff 
concessions and notify the AFTA Council accordingly. Upon restoration 
of tariff concessions or termination of the suspension, the applicant 
Member State shall apply the rate which it would have applied 
according to the scheduled commitments as if the delay or suspension 
had not occurred.  
 
9. 
In the event that there is no approval or recommendation by the 
AFTA Council pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Article, and the applicant 
Member State nevertheless proceeds with the temporary modification 
                                                 
3 A Member State shall be deemed to have “substantial supplying interest” if it has, 
or because of the tariff concessions, it is to be reasonably expected to have, a 
significant share of at least twenty percent (20%) of the total import from ASEAN of 
such products during the past three (3) years in average in the market of the 
applicant Member State. 
 
 
18
or suspension of the concession, Member States with substantial 
supplying interest shall be free to take action after thirty (30) days, but 
not later than ninety (90) days after the applicant Member State effects 
its modification or suspension of concessions, to modify or suspend 
substantially equivalent concessions from the applicant Member State. 
The concerned Member States shall immediately notify the AFTA 
Council of such actions. 
 
Article 24 
Special Treatment on Rice and Sugar 
 
The Protocol to Provide Special Consideration for Rice and Sugar 
signed on 23 August 2007 shall form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
CHAPTER 3 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
Article 25 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
aquaculture means the farming of aquatic organisms 
including fish, molluscs, crustaceans, other aquatic 
invertebrates and aquatic plants, from feedstock such as 
eggs, fry, fingerlings and larvae, by intervention in the 
rearing or growth processes to enhance production such 
as regular stocking, feeding, or protection from predators; 
 
(b) 
Costs, Insurance and Freight (CIF) means the value of 
the goods imported, and includes the costs of freight and 
insurance up to the port or place of entry into the country 
of importation. The valuation shall be made in 
accordance with Article VII of GATT 1994 and the 
Agreement on the Implementation of Article VII of GATT 
1994 as contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
(c) 
FOB means the free-on-board value of the goods, 
inclusive of the costs of transport to the port or site of final 
shipment abroad. The valuation shall be made in 
accordance with Article VII of GATT 1994 and the 
Agreement on the Implementation of Article VII of GATT 
1994 as contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
 
 
19
(d) 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) 
means 
the 
recognised 
consensus 
or 
substantial 
authoritative support in the territory of a Member State, 
with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, 
costs, assets and liabilities; the disclosure of information; 
and the preparation of financial statements. These 
standards may encompass broad guidelines of general 
application as well as detailed standards, practices and 
procedures; 
 
(e) 
goods shall include materials and/or products, which can 
be wholly obtained or produced, even if they are intended 
for later use as materials in another production process. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the terms “goods” and 
“products” can be used interchangeably; 
 
(f) 
identical 
and 
interchangeable 
materials 
means 
materials being of the same kind and commercial quality, 
possessing 
the 
same 
technical 
and 
physical 
characteristics, and which after being incorporated into 
the finished product cannot be distinguished from one 
another for origin purposes by virtue of any markings, 
etc.; 
 
(g) 
materials means  any matter or substance used or 
consumed in the production of goods or physically 
incorporated into another good or are subject to a 
process in the production of another good; 
 
(h) 
originating goods or originating material means  
goods or material that qualifies as originating in 
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter; 
 
(i) 
packing materials and containers for transportation 
means the goods used to protect a good during its 
transportation, 
different 
from 
those 
containers 
or 
materials used for its retail sale; 
 
(j) 
production means methods of obtaining goods, including 
growing, mining, harvesting, raising, breeding, extracting, 
gathering, collecting, capturing, fishing, trapping, hunting, 
manufacturing, producing, processing or assembling 
goods; and 
 
(k) 
product specific rules means rules that specify that the 
materials have undergone a change in tariff classification 
 
 
20
or a specific manufacturing or processing operation, or 
satisfy a Regional Value Content criterion or a 
combination of any of these criteria. 
 
Article 26 
Origin Criteria 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, a good imported into the territory 
of a Member State from another Member State shall be treated as an 
originating good if it conforms to the origin requirements under any one 
of the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
a good which is wholly obtained or produced in the 
exporting Member State as set out and defined in Article 
27; or 
 
(b) 
a good not wholly obtained or produced in the exporting 
Member State, provided that the said goods are eligible 
under Article 28 or Article 30. 
 
Article 27 
Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods 
 
Within the meaning of Article 26(a), the following shall be considered 
as wholly obtained or produced in the exporting Member State: 
 
(a) 
Plant and plant products, including fruit, flowers, 
vegetables, trees, seaweed, fungi and live plants, grown 
and harvested, picked or gathered in the exporting 
Member State; 
 
(b) 
Live 
animals, 
including 
mammals, 
birds, 
fish, 
crustaceans, molluscs, reptiles, bacteria and viruses, 
born and raised in the exporting Member State; 
 
(c) 
Goods obtained from live animals in the exporting 
Member State; 
 
(d) 
Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, farming, 
aquaculture, gathering or capturing conducted in the 
exporting Member State; 
 
(e) 
Minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not 
included in paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Article, extracted 
or taken from its soil, waters, seabed or beneath its 
seabed; 
 
 
21
(f) 
Products of sea-fishing taken by vessels registered with a 
Member State and entitled to fly its flag and other 
products4 taken from the waters, seabed or beneath the 
seabed outside the territorial waters5 of that Member 
State, provided that that Member State has the rights to 
exploit such waters, seabed and beneath the seabed in 
accordance with international law6; 
 
(g) 
Products of sea-fishing and other marine products taken 
from the high seas by vessels registered with a Member 
State and entitled to fly the flag of that Member State; 
 
(h) 
Products processed and/or made on board factory ships 
registered with a Member State and entitled to fly the flag 
of that Member State, exclusively from products referred 
to in paragraph (g) of this Article; 
 
(i) 
Articles collected there which can no longer perform their 
original purpose nor are capable of being restored or 
repaired and are fit only for disposal or recovery of parts 
of raw materials, or for recycling purposes; 
 
(j) 
Waste and scrap derived from: 
 
(i) 
production in the exporting Member State; or 
(ii) 
used goods collected in the exporting Member 
State, provided that such goods are fit only for the 
recovery of raw materials; and 
 
(k) 
Goods obtained or produced in the exporting Member 
State from products referred to in paragraphs (a) to (j) of 
this Article. 
 
Article 28 
Not Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods 
                                                 
4  “Other products” refers to minerals and other naturally occurring substances 
extracted from the waters, seabed or beneath the seabed outside the territorial 
waters. 
 
5 For products of sea-fishing obtained from outside the territorial waters (e.g. 
Exclusive Economic Zone), originating status would be conferred to that Member 
State with whom the vessels used to obtain such products are registered with and 
whose flag is flown in the said vessel, and provided that that Member State has the 
rights to exploit it under international law. 
 
6  In accordance with international law, registration of vessels could only be made in 
one Member State.    
 
 
22
 
1. 
(a) 
For the purposes of Article 26(b),  goods shall be deemed 
to be originating in the Member State where working or 
processing of the goods has taken place: 
 
(i) 
if the goods have a regional value content 
(hereinafter referred to as “ASEAN Value Content” 
or the “Regional Value Content (RVC)”) of not less 
than forty percent (40%) calculated using the 
formula set out in Article 29; or 
 
(ii) 
if all non-originating materials used in the 
production of the goods have undergone a change 
in tariff classification (hereinafter referred to as 
“CTC”) at four-digit level (i.e. a change in tariff 
heading) of the Harmonized System. 
 
 
 
(b) 
Each Member State shall permit the exporter of the good 
to decide whether to use paragraph 1(a)(i) or 1(a)(ii) of 
this Article when determining whether the goods qualify 
as originating goods of the Member State. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, goods listed 
in Annex 3 shall qualify as originating goods if the goods 
satisfy the product specific rules set out therein. 
 
 
 
(b) 
Where a product specific rule provides a choice of rules 
from a RVC-based rule of origin, a CTC-based rule of 
origin, a specific manufacturing or processing operation, 
or a combination of any of these, each Member State 
shall permit the exporter of the goods to decide which 
rule to use in determining whether the goods qualify as 
originating goods of the Member State. 
 
 
(c) 
Where product specific rules specify a certain RVC, it is 
required that the RVC of a good is calculated using the 
formula set out in Article 29. 
 
 
(d) 
Where product specific rules requiring that the materials 
used have undergone CTC or a specific manufacturing or 
processing operation, the rules shall apply only to non-
originating materials. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, a good which 
is covered by Attachment A or B of the Ministerial Declaration on Trade 
in Information Technology Products adopted in the Ministerial 
 
 
23
Conference of the WTO on 13 December 1996, set out as Annex 4, 
shall be deemed to be originating in a Member State if it is assembled 
from materials covered under the same Annex. 
 
Article 29 
Calculation of Regional Value Content 
 
1. 
For the purposes of Article 28, the formula for calculating 
ASEAN Value Content or RVC is as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
Direct Method 
 
or 
 
(b) 
Indirect Method 
                  
 
2. 
For the purposes of calculating the RVC provided in paragraph 1 
of this Article: 
 
 
(a) 
ASEAN Material Cost is the CIF value of originating 
materials, parts or goods that are acquired or self-
produced by the producer in the production of the good; 
 
 
(b) 
Value of Non-Originating Materials, Parts or Goods 
shall be:  
 
(i) 
The CIF value at the time of importation of the 
goods or importation can be proven; or  
 
 
ASEAN 
Material 
Cost 
 
+ 
Direct 
Labour 
Cost 
 
+
Direct 
Overhead 
Cost 
 
+
Other 
Cost 
 
+
 
Profit 
 
 
 
 
RVC = 
FOB Price 
 
 
X 100 %  
 
 
FOB Price 
 
 
- 
Value of Non-
Originating Materials, 
Parts or Goods 
 
 
 
 
RVC = 
FOB Price 
 
 
 
x 100 %  
 
 
24
 
(ii) 
The earliest ascertained price paid for the goods of 
undetermined origin in the territory of the Member 
State where the working or processing takes 
place; 
 
 
(c) 
Direct labour cost shall include wages, remuneration 
and other employee benefits associated with the 
manufacturing process; 
 
 
(d) 
The calculation of direct overhead cost shall include, 
but is not limited to, real property items associated with 
the production process (insurance, factory rent and 
leasing, 
depreciation 
on 
buildings, 
repair 
and 
maintenance, taxes, interests on mortgage); leasing of 
and interest payments for plant and equipment; factory 
security; insurance (plant, equipment and materials used 
in the manufacture of the goods); utilities (energy, 
electricity, water and other utilities directly attributable to 
the production of the goods); research, development, 
design and engineering; dies, moulds, tooling and the 
depreciation, maintenance and repair of plant and 
equipment; royalties or licences (in connection with 
patented machines or processes used in the manufacture 
of the goods or the right to manufacture the goods); 
inspection and testing of materials and the goods; 
storage and handling in the factory; disposal of recyclable 
wastes; and cost elements in computing the value of raw 
materials, i.e. port and clearance charges and import 
duties paid for dutiable component; and 
 
 
(e) 
FOB price means the free-on-board value of the goods 
as defined in Article 25. FOB price shall be determined by 
adding the value of materials, production cost, profit and 
other costs.  
 
3. 
Member States shall determine and adhere to only one (1) 
method of calculating the RVC. Member States shall be given the 
flexibility to change their calculation method provided that such change 
is notified to the AFTA Council at least six (6) months prior to the 
adoption of the new method. Any verification to the ASEAN Value 
Content calculation by the importing Member State shall be done on 
the basis of the method used by the exporting Member State. 
 
4. 
In determining the ASEAN Value Content, Member States shall 
closely adhere to the guidelines for costing methodologies set out in 
Annex 5. 
 
 
25
 
5. 
Locally-procured materials produced by established licensed 
manufacturers, in compliance with domestic regulations, shall be 
deemed to have fulfilled the origin requirement of this Agreement; 
locally-procured materials from other sources shall be subjected to the 
origin verification pursuant to Article 57 for the purpose of origin 
determination. 
 
6. 
The value of goods under this Chapter shall be determined in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 57. 
 
Article 30 
Accumulation 
 
1.    
Unless otherwise provided  in this Agreement, goods originating 
in a Member State, which are used in another Member State as 
materials for finished goods eligible for preferential tariff treatment, 
shall be considered to be originating in the latter Member State where 
working or processing of the finished goods has taken place. 
 
2.    
If the RVC of the material is less than forty percent (40%), the 
qualifying ASEAN Value Content to be cumulated using the RVC 
criterion shall be in direct proportion to the actual domestic content 
provided that it is equal to or more than twenty percent (20%).  The 
Implementing Guidelines are set out in Annex 6. 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 31 
Minimal Operations and Processes 
 
1.    
Operations or processes undertaken, by themselves or in 
combination with each other for the purposes listed below, are 
considered to be minimal and shall not be taken into account in 
determining whether a good has been originating in one Member State: 
 
(a)    ensuring preservation of goods in good condition for the 
purposes of transport or storage; 
 
(b)    facilitating shipment or transportation; and 
 
(c)    packaging or presenting goods for sale. 
 
 
 
26
2.     A good originating in the territory of a Member State shall retain 
its initial originating status, when exported from another Member State, 
where operations undertaken have not gone beyond those referred to 
in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
Article 32 
Direct Consignment 
 
1.   
Preferential tariff treatment shall be applied to goods satisfying 
the requirements of this Chapter and which are consigned directly 
between the territories of the exporting Member State and the 
importing Member State. 
 
2. 
The following shall be considered as consigned directly from the 
exporting Member State to the importing Member State:  
 
(a) 
goods transported from an exporting Member State to the 
importing Member State; or 
 
(b) 
goods transported through one or more Member States, 
other than the exporting Member State and the importing 
Member State, or through a non-Member State, provided 
that:  
 
(i) 
the transit entry is justified for geographical reason 
or by consideration related exclusively to transport 
requirements;  
 
(ii) 
the goods have not entered into trade or 
consumption there; and  
 
(iii) 
the goods have not undergone any operation there 
other than unloading and reloading or any other 
operation to preserve them in good condition. 
 
Article 33 
De Minimis 
 
1. 
A good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification 
shall be considered as originating if the value of all non-originating 
materials used in its production that do not undergo the required 
change in tariff classification does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the 
FOB value of the good and the good meets all other applicable criteria 
set forth in this Agreement for qualifying as an originating good. 
 
 
 
27
2. 
The value of non-originating materials referred to in paragraph 1 
of this Article shall, however, be included in the value of non-originating 
materials for any applicable RVC requirement for the good. 
 
Article 34 
Treatment of Packages and Packing Materials 
 
1. 
Packaging and Packing Materials for retail sale: 
 
(a)     If a good is subject to the RVC-based rule of origin, the 
value of the packaging and packing materials for retail 
sale shall be taken into account in its origin assessment, 
where the packaging and packing materials for retail sale 
are considered to be forming a whole with the good. 
 
(b)    Where paragraph 1 (a) of this Article  is not applicable, 
the packaging and packing materials for retail sale, when 
classified together with the packaged good shall not be 
taken into account in considering whether all non-
originating materials used in the manufacture of a product 
fulfils the criterion corresponding to a change of tariff 
classification of the said good. 
 
2. 
The containers and packing materials exclusively used for the 
transport of a good shall not be taken into account for determining the 
origin of the said good.   
 
Article 35 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
1. 
If a good is subject to the requirements of CTC or specific 
manufacturing or processing operation, the origin of accessories, spare 
parts, tools and instructional or other information materials presented 
with the good shall not be taken into account in determining whether 
the good qualifies as an originating good, provided that: 
 
(a) 
the accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or 
other information materials are not invoiced separately 
from the good; and 
 
(b) 
the quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, 
tools and instructional or other information materials are 
customary for the good. 
 
2. 
If a good is subject to the RVC-based rule of origin, the value of 
the accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or other 
 
 
28
information materials shall be taken into account as the value of the 
originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in 
calculating the RVC of the originating good. 
 
Article 36 
Neutral Elements 
 
In order to determine whether a good originates, it shall not be 
necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used 
in its production and not incorporated into the good: 
 
(a) 
fuel and energy; 
 
(b) 
tools, dies and moulds; 
 
(c) 
spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of 
equipment and buildings; 
 
(d) 
lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other 
materials used in production or used to operate 
equipment and buildings; 
 
(e) 
gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and 
supplies; 
 
(f) 
equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or 
inspecting the good;  
 
(g) 
catalyst and solvent; and 
 
(h) 
any other goods that are not incorporated into the good 
but of which use in the production of the good can 
reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that 
production. 
 
 
 
 
Article 37 
Identical and Interchangeable Materials 
 
1. 
The determination of whether identical and interchangeable 
materials are originating materials shall be made either by physical 
segregation of each of the materials or by the use of generally 
accepted accounting principles of stock control applicable, or inventory 
management practice, in the exporting Member States. 
 
 
29
 
2. 
Once a decision has been taken on the inventory management 
method, that method shall be used throughout the fiscal year. 
 
Article 38 
Certificate of Origin 
 
A claim that a good shall be accepted as eligible for preferential tariff 
treatment shall be supported by a Certificate of Origin (Form D), as set 
out in Annex 7 issued by a Government authority designated by the 
exporting Member State and notified to the other Member States in 
accordance with the Operational Certification Procedures, as set out in 
Annex 8. 
 
Article 39 
Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin 
 
1. 
For the purposes of the effective and uniform implementation of 
this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin shall be established 
pursuant to Article 90.  
 
2. 
The functions of the Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin shall 
include: 
 
(a) 
monitoring of the implementation and operation of this 
Chapter; 
 
(b) 
reviewing, as and when necessary, this Chapter to 
provide appropriate recommendations with the view to 
enhancing this Chapter to make it responsive to the 
dynamic changes in the regional and global production 
processes so as to facilitate trade and investment among 
Member States, promote a regional production network, 
encourage the development of Small and Medium 
Enterprises (SMEs) and narrowing the development 
gaps; 
 
(c) 
reviewing, as and when necessary, the operational 
procedures of this Chapter with the view to simplifying the 
procedures and making them transparent, predictable 
and standardised, taking into account the best practices 
of other regional and international trade agreements; 
 
(d) 
considering any other matter as Member States may 
agree related to this Chapter; and 
 
 
 
30
(e) 
carrying out other functions as may be delegated by the 
CCA, SEOM and the AFTA Council. 
 
3. 
The Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin shall be composed of 
representatives of the Governments of Member States, and may invite 
representatives of relevant entities other than the Governments of the 
Member States with necessary expertise relevant to the issues to be 
discussed, upon agreement of all Member States. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 4 
NON-TARIFF MEASURES 
 
Article 40 
Application of Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall not adopt or maintain any non-tariff 
measure on the importation of any good of any other Member State or 
on the exportation of any good destined for the territory of any other 
Member State, except in accordance with its WTO rights and 
obligations or in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
2.     Each Member State shall ensure the transparency of its non-
tariff measures permitted in paragraph 1 of this Article in accordance 
with Article 12 and shall ensure that any such measures are not 
prepared, adopted or applied with the view to, or with the effect of, 
creating unnecessary obstacles in trade among the Member States.  
 
3. 
Any new measure or modification to the existing measure shall 
be duly notified in accordance with Article 11. 
 
4. 
The database on non-tariff measures applied in Member States 
shall be further developed and included in the ASEAN Trade 
Repository as referred in Article 13.  
 
Article 41 
General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions 
 
 
 
31
Each Member State undertakes not to adopt or maintain any 
prohibition or quantitative restriction on the importation of any goods of 
the other Member States or on the exportation of any goods destined 
for the territory of the other Member States, except in accordance with 
its WTO rights and obligations or other provisions in this Agreement. 
To this end, Article XI of GATT 1994, shall be incorporated into and 
form part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 42 
Elimination of Other Non-Tariff Barriers 
 
1. 
Member States shall review the non-tariff measures in the 
database referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 40 with a view to 
identifying non-tariff barriers (NTBs) other than quantitative restrictions 
for elimination. The elimination of the identified NTBs shall be dealt 
with by the Co-ordinating Committee for the Implementation of the 
ATIGA (CCA), the ASEAN Consultative Committee on Standards and 
Quality 
(ACCSQ), 
the 
ASEAN 
Committee 
on 
Sanitary 
and 
Phytosanitary (AC-SPS), the working bodies under ASEAN Directors-
General of Customs and other relevant ASEAN bodies, as appropriate, 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, which shall submit 
their recommendations on the identified non-tariff barriers to the AFTA 
Council through SEOM. 
 
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the AFTA Council, the identified 
NTBs shall be eliminated in three (3) tranches as follows: 
 
(a) 
Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand 
shall eliminate in three (3) tranches by 1 January of 2008, 
2009 and 2010; 
 
(b) 
The Philippines shall eliminate in three (3) tranches by 1 
January of 2010, 2011 and 2012; 
 
(c) 
Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam shall 
eliminate in three (3) tranches by 1 January of 2013, 
2014 and 2015 with flexibilities up to 2018. 
 
3. 
The list of identified NTBs to be eliminated in each tranche shall 
be agreed upon by the AFTA Council meeting in the year before the 
effective elimination date of such NTBs.  
4. 
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article, the CCA, in 
consultation with the relevant ASEAN bodies, shall review any non-
tariff measure notified or reported by any other Member State or by the 
private sector with a view to determining whether the measure 
constitutes as a NTB. If such review results in an identification of a 
 
 
32
NTB, the NTB shall be eliminated by the Member State applying such 
NTB in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
5. 
The CCA shall serve as a focal point for the notification and 
review referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article. 
 
6. 
Exceptions to this Article shall be allowed for the reasons 
provided in Article 8. 
 
7. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a 
Member State, which is a party to the Basel Convention on the Control 
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal 
or other relevant international agreements, from adopting or enforcing 
any measure in relation to hazardous wastes or substances based on 
its laws and regulations, in accordance with such international 
agreements. 
 
Article 43 
Foreign Exchange Restrictions 
 
Member States shall make exceptions to their foreign exchange 
restrictions relating to payments for the products under this Agreement, 
as well as repatriation of such payments without prejudice to their 
rights under Article XVIII of GATT 1994 and relevant provisions of the 
Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 
 
Article 44 
Import Licensing Procedures 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall ensure that all automatic and non-
automatic import licensing procedures are implemented in a 
transparent and predictable manner, and applied in accordance with 
the Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures as contained in Annex 
1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
2. 
Promptly after entry into force of this Agreement, each Member 
State shall notify the other Member States of any existing import 
licensing procedures. Thereafter, each Member State shall notify the 
other Member States of any new import licensing procedure and any 
modification to its existing import licensing procedures, to the extent 
possible sixty (60) days before it takes effect, but in any case no later 
than the effective date of the licensing requirement.  A notification 
provided under this Article shall include the information specified in 
Article 5 of the Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures as 
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
 
 
33
3. 
Each Member State shall answer within sixty (60) days all 
reasonable enquiries from another Member State with regard to the 
criteria employed by its respective licensing authorities in granting or 
denying import licences.  The importing Member State shall also 
consider publication of such criteria. 
 
4. 
Elements in non-automatic import licensing procedures that are 
found to be impeding trade shall be identified, with a view to remove 
such barriers, and to the extent possible work towards automatic import 
licensing procedures.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 5 
TRADE FACILITATION 
 
Article 45 
Work Programme on Trade Facilitation and its Objectives 
 
1. 
Member States shall develop and implement a comprehensive 
ASEAN Trade Facilitation Work Programme, which sets out all 
concrete actions and measures with clear targets and timelines of 
implementation necessary for creating a consistent, transparent, and 
predictable environment for international trade transactions that 
increases trading opportunities and help businesses, including small 
and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), to save time and reduce costs. 
 
2. 
The ASEAN Trade Facilitation Work Programme shall set out 
actions and measures to be implemented at both ASEAN and national 
levels. 
 
Article 46 
Scope of the ASEAN Trade Facilitation Work Programme 
 
The ASEAN Trade Facilitation Work Programme referred to in Article 
45 shall cover the areas of customs procedures, trade regulations and 
procedures, standards and conformance, sanitary and phytosanitary 
measures, ASEAN Single Window and other areas as identified by the 
AFTA Council. 
 
 
34
 
Article 47 
Principles on Trade Facilitation 
 
Member States shall be guided by the following principles in relation to 
trade facilitation measures and initiatives at both ASEAN and national 
levels: 
 
(a) 
Transparency: Information on policies, laws, regulations, 
administrative rulings, licensing, certification, qualification 
and registration requirements, technical regulations, 
standards, guidelines, procedures and practices relating 
to trade in goods (hereinafter referred to as “rules and 
procedures relating to trade”) to be made available to all 
interested parties, consistently and in a timely manner at 
no cost or a reasonable cost; 
 
(b) 
Communications and Consultations: The authorities shall 
endeavour to facilitate and promote effective mechanisms 
for exchanges with the business and trading community, 
including opportunities for consultation when formulating, 
implementing and reviewing rules and procedures 
relating to trade; 
 
(c) 
Simplification, practicability and efficiency: Rules and 
procedures relating to trade to be simplified to ensure that 
they are no more burdensome or restrictive than 
necessary to achieve their legitimate objectives; 
 
(d) 
Non-discrimination: Rules and procedures relating to 
trade to be applied in a non-discriminatory manner and 
be based on market principles; 
 
(e) 
Consistency and predictability: Rules and procedures 
relating to trade to be applied in a consistent, predictable 
and uniform manner so as to minimise uncertainty to the 
trade and trade related parties. Rules and procedures 
relating to trade to provide clear and precise procedural 
guidance to the appropriate authorities with standard 
policies and operating procedures and be applied in a 
non-discretionary manner; 
(f) 
Harmonisation, standardisation and recognition: While 
accepting the need of each Member State to regulate or 
set rules for legitimate objectives such as protection of 
health, safety or public morals and conservation of 
exhaustible natural resources, regulations, rules and 
 
 
35
procedures affecting the acceptance of goods between 
Member States to be harmonised as far as possible on 
the basis of international standards where appropriate.  
The development of mutual recognition arrangements for 
standards and conformity assessment results, and 
continuing 
co-operation 
on 
technical 
infrastructure 
development, are encouraged;   
 
(g) 
Modernisation and use of new technology: Rules and 
procedures relating to trade to be reviewed and updated 
if necessary, taking into account changed circumstances, 
including new information and new business practices, 
and based on the adoption, where appropriate, of modern 
techniques and new technology.  Where new technology 
is used, relevant authorities shall make best efforts to 
spread the accompanying benefits to all parties through 
ensuring the openness of the information on the adopted 
technologies and extending co-operation to authorities of 
other economies and the private sector in establishing 
inter-operability 
and/or 
inter-connectivity 
of 
the 
technologies; 
 
(h) 
Due 
process: 
Access 
to 
adequate 
legal 
appeal 
procedures, 
adding 
greater 
certainty 
to 
trade 
transactions, in accordance with the applicable laws of 
Member States; and 
 
(i) 
Co-operation: Member States shall strive to work closely 
with private sector in the introduction of measures 
conducive to trade facilitation, including by open channels 
of communication and co-operation between both 
governments and business.  Member States shall 
continue to work in partnership to focus on opportunities 
for increased co-operation including  integrated technical 
assistance and capacity-building; exchanges of best 
practices critical to implementing trade facilitation 
initiatives and the co-ordination of positions concerning 
topics of common interest discussed in the framework of 
regional and international organisations. 
 
Article 48 
Progress Monitoring of Trade Facilitation 
 
1. 
Member States, individually and collectively, shall undertake 
assessments once in every two (2) years, on implementation of the 
trade facilitation measures set out in this Agreement and in the ASEAN 
 
 
36
Trade Facilitation Work Programme to ensure effective implementation 
of trade facilitation measures. For this purpose, an ASEAN Trade 
Facilitation Framework shall be agreed by Member States within six (6) 
months after entry into force of this Agreement, to serve as a guideline 
to further enhance trade facilitation in ASEAN.  
 
2. 
The ASEAN Work Programme on Trade Facilitation shall be 
reviewed based on the results of the regular assessment pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of this Article. The ASEAN Trade Facilitation Work 
Programme and the ASEAN Trade Facilitation Framework and any 
revisions thereto shall be administratively annexed to this Agreement 
and serve as an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Article 49 
Establishment of the ASEAN Single Window 
 
Member States shall undertake necessary measures to establish and 
operate their respective National Single Windows and the ASEAN 
Single Window in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement to 
Establish and Implement the ASEAN Single Window and the Protocol 
to Establish and Implement the ASEAN Single Window. 
 
Article 50 
Implementation Arrangement 
 
1. 
The progress in the implementation of the ASEAN Work 
Programme on Trade Facilitation and the outcomes of its assessment 
shall be reported to the AFTA Council. The SEOM, assisted by the 
CCA, shall be the main co-ordinator in monitoring the progress of the 
implementation of the ASEAN Work Programme on Trade Facilitation, 
in close co-ordination with the various ASEAN Committees in charge of 
the implementation of the measures under the Work Programme. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall establish a Trade Facilitation Co-
ordinating Committee or relevant focal point at the national level. 
 
 
CHAPTER 6 
CUSTOMS 
 
Article 51 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
 
 
37
(a) 
ensure predictability, consistency and transparency  in 
the application of customs laws of Member States; 
 
(b) 
promote efficient and economical administration of 
customs procedures, and expeditious clearance of goods;  
 
(c) 
simplify 
and 
harmonise 
customs 
procedures 
and 
practices to the extent possible; and 
 
(d) 
promote cooperation among the customs authorities. 
 
Article 52 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
Authorised Economic Operator means a party involved 
in the international movement of goods in any function 
that has been approved by the customs authorities as 
complying with statutory and/or regulatory requirements 
of Member States, taking into account international 
supply chain security standards; 
 
(b) 
customs control means measures applied by the 
customs authorities to ensure compliance with customs 
laws of Member States; 
 
(c) 
customs procedures means the treatment applied by 
the customs authorities of each Member State to goods, 
which are subject to customs laws; 
 
(d) 
Customs Valuation Agreement means the Agreement 
on Implementation of Article VII of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, contained in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
(e) 
drawback means the amount of import duties and taxes 
repaid under the drawback procedure; 
 
(f) 
drawback procedure means customs procedures which, 
when goods are exported, provide for a repayment (total 
or partial) to be made in respect of the import duties and 
taxes charged on the goods, or on materials contained in 
them or consumed in their production; 
 
 
 
38
(g) 
goods declaration means a statement made in the 
manner prescribed by the customs authorities, by which 
the persons concerned indicate the customs procedure to 
be applied to the goods and furnish the particulars which 
the customs authorities require for its application; 
 
(h) 
repayment means the refund, in whole or in part, of 
duties and taxes paid on goods and the remission, in 
whole or in part, of duties and taxes where payment has 
not been made; 
 
(i) 
security means that which ensures to the satisfaction of 
the customs authorities that an obligation to the customs 
authorities will be fulfilled; and  
 
(j) 
temporary admission means customs procedures under 
which certain goods can be brought into a customs 
territory conditionally relieved totally or partially from 
payment of import duties and taxes; such goods must be 
imported for a specific purpose and must be intended for 
re-exportation within a specified period and without 
having 
undergone 
any 
change 
except 
normal 
depreciation due to the use made of them. 
 
Article 53 
Scope 
 
This Chapter applies, in accordance with the Member States’ 
respective laws, regulations and policies, to customs procedures 
applied to goods traded among Member States. 
 
Article 54 
Customs Procedures and Control 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall ensure that its customs procedures 
and practices are predictable, consistent, transparent and trade 
facilitating, including through the expeditious clearance of goods. 
 
2. 
Customs procedures of Member States shall, where possible 
and to the extent permitted by their respective customs law, conform to 
standards and recommended practices of the World Customs 
Organisation and other international organisations as relevant to 
customs. 
 
 
 
39
3.  
The customs authorities of each Member State shall review its 
customs procedures with a view to their simplification to facilitate trade. 
 
4.  
Customs control shall be limited to that which is necessary to 
ensure compliance with customs laws of Member States. 
 
Article 55 
Pre-arrival Documentation 
 
Member States shall endeavour to make provision for the lodging and 
registering or checking of the goods declaration and its supporting 
documents prior to the arrival of the goods.  
 
Article 56 
Risk Management 
 
Member States shall use risk management to determine control 
measures with the view to facilitate customs clearance and release of 
goods. 
 
 
 
 
Article 57 
Customs Valuation 
 
1.  
For the purposes of determining the customs value of goods 
traded between and among the Member States, provisions of Part I of 
Customs Valuation Agreement, shall apply mutatis mutandis7. 
 
2.  
Member States shall harmonise, to the extent possible, 
administrative procedures and practices in the assessment of value of 
goods for customs purposes.  
 
Article 58 
Application of Information Technology 
 
Member States, where applicable, shall apply information technology in 
customs operations based on internationally accepted standards for 
expeditious customs clearance and release of goods. 
 
                                                 
7  In the case of Cambodia, the Agreement on Customs Valuation, as implemented in 
accordance with the provision of the protocol on the Accession of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia to the WTO, shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
40
Article 59 
Authorised Economic Operators 
 
1.  
Member States shall endeavour to establish the programme of 
Authorised 
Economic 
Operators 
(AEO) 
to 
promote 
informed 
compliance and efficiency of customs control.  
 
2.  
Member States shall endeavour to work towards mutual 
recognition of AEO. 
 
Article 60 
Repayment, Drawback and Security 
 
1. 
Decisions on claims for repayment shall be reached, and 
notified in writing to the persons concerned, without undue delay, and 
repayment of amounts overcharged shall be made as soon as possible 
after the verification of claims. 
 
2. 
Drawback shall be paid as soon as possible after the verification 
of claims. 
 
3. 
Where security has been furnished, it shall be discharged as 
soon as possible after the customs authorities are satisfied that the 
obligations under which the security was required have been duly 
fulfilled. 
 
Article 61 
Post Clearance Audit 
 
Member States shall establish and operate Post Clearance Audit 
(PCA) for expeditious customs clearance and enhanced customs 
control. 
 
Article 62 
Advance Rulings 
 
1. 
Each Member State, through its customs authorities and/or 
other relevant authorities, shall, to the extent permitted by its respective 
laws, regulations and administrative determinations, provide in writing 
advance rulings on the application of a person described in paragraph 
2(a) of this Article, in respect of the tariff classification, questions 
arising from the application of the principles of Customs Valuation 
Agreement and/or origin of goods. 
 
2. 
Where available, each Member State shall adopt or maintain 
procedures for advance rulings, which shall: 
 
 
41
 
(a) 
provide that an importer in its territory or an exporter or 
producer in the territory of another Member State may 
apply for an advance ruling before the importation of 
goods in question; 
 
(b) 
require that an applicant for an advance ruling provide a 
detailed description of the goods and all relevant 
information needed to process an application for an 
advance ruling; 
 
(c) 
provide that its customs authorities may, at any time 
during the course of evaluation of an application for an 
advance ruling, request that the applicant provide 
additional information within a specified period; 
 
(d) 
provide that any advance ruling be based on the facts 
and circumstances presented by the applicant, and any 
other relevant information in the possession of the 
decision-maker; and 
 
(e) 
provide that an advance ruling be issued to the applicant 
expeditiously, within the period specified in each Member 
State’s respective laws, regulations or administrative 
determinations. 
 
3. 
A Member State may reject requests for an advance ruling 
where the additional information requested in accordance with 
paragraph 2(c) of this Article is not provided within a specified time. 
 
4. 
Subject to paragraphs 1 and 5 of this Article and where 
available, each Member State shall apply an advance ruling to all 
importations of goods described in that ruling imported into its territory 
for three (3) years from the date of that ruling, or such other period as 
specified in that Member State's respective laws, regulations or 
administrative determinations. 
 
5.  
A Member State may modify or revoke an advance ruling upon a 
determination that the ruling was based on an error of fact or law 
(including human error), the information provided is false or inaccurate, 
there is a change in its law consistent with this Agreement, or there is a 
change in a material fact, or circumstances on which the ruling was 
based. 
 
6.  
Where an importer claims that the treatment accorded to an 
imported good should be governed by an advance ruling, the customs 
 
 
42
authorities may evaluate whether the facts and circumstances of the 
importation are consistent with the facts and circumstances upon which 
an advance ruling was based. 
 
Article 63 
Temporary Admission 
 
Member States shall facilitate movement of goods under temporary 
admission to the greatest extent possible. 
 
Article 64 
Customs Co-operation 
 
To the extent permitted by their laws, Member States may, as deemed 
appropriate, assist each other on customs matters. 
 
Article 65 
Transparency 
 
1. 
Member 
States 
will 
facilitate 
the 
timely 
publication, 
dissemination of statutory and regulatory information, decisions and 
rulings on customs matters. 
 
2. 
Each Member State shall publish on the internet and/or in print 
form all statutory and regulatory provisions and any customs 
administrative procedures applicable or enforceable by its customs 
administration, except law enforcement procedures and internal 
operational guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 66 
Enquiry Points 
 
Each Member State shall designate one (1) or more enquiry points to 
address enquiries from interested persons concerning customs 
matters, and shall make available on the internet and/or in print form 
information concerning procedures for making such enquiries. 
 
Article 67 
Consultation 
 
 
 
43
The customs authorities of Member States will encourage consultation 
with each other regarding customs issues that affect goods traded 
between and among Member States. 
 
Article 68 
Confidentiality 
 
1.  
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require any 
Member State to furnish or allow access to confidential information 
pursuant to this Chapter the disclosure of which it considers would: 
 
(a) 
be contrary to the public interest as determined by its 
laws; 
 
(b) 
be contrary to any of its laws, including but not limited, to 
those protecting personal privacy or the financial affairs 
and accounts of individual customers of financial 
institutions; 
 
(c) 
impede law enforcement; or 
 
(d) 
prejudice legitimate commercial interests, which may 
include competitive position of particular enterprises, 
public or private.  
 
2.  
Where a Member State provides information to another Member 
State in accordance with this Chapter and designates the information 
as confidential, the Member State receiving the information shall 
maintain the confidentiality of the information, use it only for the 
purposes specified by the Member State providing the information, and 
not disclose it without the specific written permission of the Member 
State providing the information. 
 
Article 69 
Review and Appeal 
 
1.  
Each Member State shall ensure that any person, in its territory, 
being aggrieved by any customs decision pertinent to this Agreement 
have access to administrative review within the customs authorities 
that issued the decision subject to review or, where applicable, by the 
higher authority supervising the administration and/or judicial review of 
the determination taken at the final level of administrative review, in 
accordance with the Member State's law. 
 
2.  
The decision on appeal shall be given to the appellant and the 
reasons for such decision shall be provided in writing. 
 
 
44
 
Article 70 
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements 
 
The ASEAN Directors-General of Customs, supported by customs 
working bodies, shall be responsible to implement the provisions of this 
Chapter and any other provisions relevant to customs in this 
Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 7 
STANDARDS, TECHNICAL REGULATIONS AND CONFORMITY 
ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Article 71 
Objective 
 
The objective of this Chapter is to establish provisions on standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures to ensure 
that these do not create unnecessary obstacles to trade in establishing 
ASEAN as a single market and production base, and at the same time 
ensure that the legitimate objectives of Member States are met. 
 
Article 72 
Terms and Definitions 
 
General terms concerning standardisation and conformity assessment 
used in this Chapter have the meaning given to them in the definitions 
contained in the appropriate editions of ISO/ IEC Guide 2 and ISO/ IEC 
17000 of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and 
the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) as cited in the  
ASEAN Framework Agreement on Mutual Recognition Arrangements  
and the relevant ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition Arrangements.  
 
Article 73 
General Provisions 
 
1. 
Member States reaffirm and are committed to abide by the rights 
and obligations under the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade 
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
 
 
45
2. 
Member States shall take any of the following possible 
measures or their combinations to mitigate, if not totally eliminate, 
unnecessary technical barriers to trade:  
 
(a) 
harmonise national standards with relevant international 
standards and practices; 
 
(b) 
promote mutual recognition of conformity assessment 
results among Member States; 
 
(c) 
develop 
and 
implement 
ASEAN 
Sectoral 
Mutual 
Recognition 
Arrangements 
and 
develop 
ASEAN 
Harmonised Regulatory Regimes in the regulated areas 
where applicable; and  
 
(d) 
encourage the co-operation among National Accreditation 
Bodies and National Metrology Institutes (NMIs) including 
relevant legal metrology authorities in ASEAN to facilitate 
the implementation of Mutual Recognition Arrangements 
(MRAs) in regulated and non-regulated sectors. 
 
3. 
To facilitate the free movement of goods within ASEAN, Member 
States shall develop and implement a Marking Scheme, where 
appropriate, for products covered under the ASEAN Harmonised 
Regulatory Regimes or Directives. 
 
Article 74 
Standards 
 
1. 
Each Member State undertakes that its national standards 
authorities accept and follow the Code of Good Practice for the 
Preparation, Adoption and Application of Standards as provided for in 
Annex 3 of the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade as contained 
in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
2. 
In harmonising national standards, Member States shall, as the 
first and preferred option, adopt the relevant international standards 
when preparing new national standards or revising existing standards. 
Where international standards are not available, national standards 
shall be aligned among Member States. 
 
3. 
Member States are encouraged to actively participate in the 
development of international standards, particularly in those sectors 
that have trade potential for ASEAN. 
 
4.  
Harmonisation of the existing national standards and adoption of 
 
 
46
international standards into new national standards should be based on 
“Adoption of International Standards as Regional or National 
Standards”, as contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 21 or its latest edition.  
 
5. 
Whenever modifications of contents and structure of the relevant 
international standards are necessary, Member States shall ensure an 
easy comparison of the contents and structure of their national 
standards with the referenced international standards and provide 
information to explain the reason(s) for such modifications. 
 
6. 
Member States shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the modifications of contents of international standards 
are not prepared and adopted with a view to, or with the 
effect of, creating unnecessary  technical barriers to 
trade; and 
 
(b) 
the modifications of contents shall not be more restrictive 
than necessary. 
 
Article 75 
Technical Regulations 
 
1. 
In adopting technical regulations, Member States shall ensure 
that:  
 
(a) 
these are not adopted with a view, to or with the effect of, 
creating technical barriers to trade; 
 
(b) 
these are based on international or national standards 
that are harmonised to international standards, except 
where legitimate reasons for deviations exist; 
 
(c) 
alternative means that are least trade restrictive to 
achieve the desired objectives are considered before a 
decision is taken on the adoption of technical regulations; 
 
(d) 
the adoption of prescriptive standards is avoided to 
ensure that unnecessary obstacles to trade are not 
introduced,  to enhance fair competition in the market or 
that it does not lead to a reduction of business flexibility; 
and 
 
(e) 
treatment accorded to products imported from Member 
States is no less favourable than that accorded to like 
products of national origin and to like products originating 
 
 
47
from any other Member State. 
 
2. 
Member States shall ensure that only those parts of a standard 
that represent minimum requirements to fulfil the desired objectives are 
referred to in the technical regulations. 
 
3. 
Member States shall also ensure that, wherever applicable, the 
preparation, adoption and application of technical regulations are to 
facilitate the implementation of the respective ASEAN Sectoral Mutual 
Recognition Arrangements. 
 
4. 
Whenever the need for technical regulations is urgent for 
overcoming problems that arise or threaten to arise within the territory 
of a Member State and the available time does not allow such Member 
State to harmonise the relevant national standards, that Member State 
shall consider using the appropriate international standards or the 
relevant parts of them as the first alternative.  
 
5. 
Member States shall comply with the notification procedures as 
stipulated in Article 11.  However, in the case of technical regulations 
under this Article, other Member States shall present their comments, if 
any, within sixty (60) days of the notification.  Member States shall, 
upon request, provide to other Member States the draft of the technical 
regulation and other information regarding the deviations from the 
relevant international standards and the applicable pre-market 
conformity assessment procedure. 
 
6. 
Except in urgent circumstances, Member States shall allow at 
least six (6) months between the publication of technical regulations 
and their entry into force in order to provide sufficient time for 
producers in exporting Member States to adapt their products or 
methods of production to the requirements of importing Member 
States. 
 
Article 76 
Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that conformity assessment 
procedures are not prepared, adopted or applied with a view to, or with 
the effect of, creating unnecessary technical barriers to trade and that 
conformity assessment procedures that have to be complied with by 
suppliers of products originating in the territories of other Member 
States are not more stringent than those accorded to suppliers of like 
products of national origin. 
 
2. 
Member States shall adopt conformity assessment procedures 
 
 
48
that are consistent with international standards and practices and 
wherever such procedures cannot be achieved because of differences 
in legitimate objectives, the differences of conformity assessment 
procedures shall be minimised as far as possible. 
 
3.      Member States shall develop and implement ASEAN Sectoral 
Mutual Recognition Arrangement in the regulated areas, where 
appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the ASEAN 
Framework Agreement on Mutual Recognition Arrangements. 
 
4. 
Member States shall accept the results of conformity 
assessment produced by conformity assessment bodies designated by 
other Member States in accordance with the provisions of the ASEAN 
Framework Agreement on Mutual Recognition Arrangements and the 
provisions of the respective ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition 
Arrangements in all regulated areas.  
 
5. 
Member States shall establish co-operation among National 
Accreditation Bodies and National Metrology Institutes (NMIs), 
including legal metrology in ASEAN to facilitate the implementation of 
MRAs in regulated and non-regulated sectors.   
 
Article 77 
Post Market Surveillance 
 
1. 
Member States shall establish post market surveillance systems 
to complement the implementation of the ASEAN Sectoral Mutual 
Recognition Arrangements and ASEAN Harmonised Regulatory 
Regimes and/or Directives.  
 
2. 
The relevant authority that undertakes the post market 
surveillance system of the Member States shall take the necessary 
actions to ensure compliance of products placed in the market with the 
applicable ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition Arrangements and 
ASEAN Harmonised Regulatory Regimes and/or Directives.  
 
3. 
Member States should ensure that the necessary laws and 
technical infrastructure are in place to support post market surveillance 
systems. 
 
 
 
4. 
The effectiveness of the post market surveillance systems shall 
be further enhanced through the establishment of Alert Systems 
among Member States.    
 
 
 
49
Article 78 
Implementation 
 
1. 
Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure 
implementation of all the ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition 
Arrangements, ASEAN Harmonised Regulatory Regimes and the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement within the time frame stipulated in 
the aforesaid agreements and to ensure compliance with aforesaid 
harmonised requirements. 
 
2. 
The following instruments, and any future instruments agreed by 
Member States to implement the provisions of this Agreement, shall 
form an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
ASEAN Framework Agreement on Mutual Recognition 
Arrangements; 
 
(b) 
ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition Arrangement for 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment; 
 
(c) 
Agreement on the ASEAN Harmonized Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment (EEE) Regulatory Regime; and 
 
(d) 
Agreement on the ASEAN Harmonized Cosmetic 
Regulatory Scheme. 
 
3. 
The ASEAN Consultative Committee for Standards and Quality 
(ACCSQ) shall be responsible for: 
 
a)      identifying and initiating sectoral MRAs; 
 
b) 
monitoring the effective implementation of the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement in respect of standards, 
technical 
regulations 
and 
conformity 
assessment 
procedures; 
 
c) 
providing support to the respective Joint Sectoral 
Committees when required; and  
 
d) 
collaborating with the ASEAN Secretariat to provide 
regular 
feedback 
on 
the 
implementation 
of 
this 
Agreement.  
 
4. 
The ACCSQ shall provide support and co-operation under the 
relevant ASEAN Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with Dialogue 
Partners, including capacity building and institutional strengthening 
 
 
50
programmes for Standards, Technical Regulations and Conformity 
Assessment Procedures Chapters in such ASEAN FTAs. 
 
5.      The ACCSQ shall take the necessary actions to ensure effective 
implementation 
of 
the 
ASEAN 
Sectoral 
Mutual 
Recognition 
Arrangements and ASEAN Harmonised Regulatory Regimes. 
 
 
CHAPTER 8 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
Article 79 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a) 
facilitate trade between and among Member States while 
protecting human, animal or plant life or health in each 
Member State; 
 
(b) 
provide a framework and guidelines on requirements in 
the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures 
among 
Member 
States, 
particularly 
to 
achieve 
commitments set forth in the ASEAN Economic 
Community Blueprint; 
 
(c) 
strengthen co-operation among Member States in 
protecting human, animal or plant life or health; and 
 
(d) 
facilitate and strengthen implementation of this Chapter in 
accordance with the principles and disciplines in the 
Agreement 
on 
the 
Application 
of 
Sanitary 
and 
Phytosanitary Measures contained in Annex 1A to the 
WTO Agreement  and this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 80 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
international 
standards, 
guidelines 
and 
recommendations shall have the same meaning as in 
Annex A of paragraph 3 to the SPS Agreement;  
 
 
 
51
(b) 
sanitary or phytosanitary measures shall have the 
same meaning as in Annex A of paragraph 1 to the SPS 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
SPS 
Agreement 
means 
the 
Agreement 
on 
the 
Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 81 
General Provisions and Obligations 
 
1. 
The provisions of this Chapter apply to all sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures of a Member State that may, directly or 
indirectly, affect trade between and among Member States. 
 
2. 
Member States affirm their rights and obligations with respect to 
each other under the SPS Agreement. 
 
3. 
Each Member State commits to apply the principles of the SPS 
Agreement in the development, application or recognition of any 
sanitary or phytosanitary measures with the intent to facilitate trade 
between and among Member States while protecting human, animal or 
plant life or health in each Member State. 
 
4. 
In the implementation of their sanitary or phytosanitary 
measures, Member States agree to be guided, where applicable, by 
relevant international standards, guidelines and recommendations 
developed by international organisations such as, the Codex 
Alimentarius Commission (Codex), the World Organisation for Animal 
Health (OIE), the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) and 
ASEAN. 
 
5. 
Member States hereby agree that the laws, regulations, and 
procedures for application of SPS measures in their respective 
territories shall be listed in Annex 9, which form an integral part of this 
Agreement. Member States hereby agree to ensure that their 
respective national sanitary and phytosanitary laws, regulations and 
procedures as listed in Annex 9 are readily available and accessible to 
any interested Member States.  
 
6. 
Any change to national sanitary and phytosanitary laws, 
regulations and procedures shall be subject to Article 11.    
 
 
52
Article 82 
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
For effective implementation of this Chapter, an ASEAN 
Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (AC-SPS) shall be 
established to conduct committee meetings at least once a year among 
Member States. 
 
2. 
The functions of the AC-SPS shall be to:  
 
(a) 
facilitate exchange of  information on such matters as 
occurrences of sanitary or phytosanitary  incidents in the 
Member States and non-Member States, and change or 
introduction 
of 
sanitary 
and 
phytosanitary-related 
regulations and standards of the Member States , which 
may, directly or indirectly, affect trade between and 
among Member States; 
 
(b) 
facilitate co-operation in the area of sanitary or 
phytosanitary measures including capacity building, 
technical assistance and exchange of experts, subject to 
the availability of appropriated funds and the applicable 
laws and regulations of each Member State; 
 
(c) 
endeavour to resolve sanitary and phytosanitary  matters 
with a view to facilitate trade between and among 
Member States. The AC-SPS may establish ad hoc task 
force to undertake science-based consultations to identify 
and address specific issues that may arise from the 
application of sanitary or phytosanitary measures; and 
 
(d) 
submit 
regular 
reports 
of 
developments 
and 
recommendations in the implementation of this Chapter 
to the AFTA Council, through SEOM for further action. 
 
3. 
Each Member State shall establish a contact point for effective 
communication and co-operation. The list of respective designated 
contact points appears in Annex 10. 
 
4. 
Each Member State shall ensure the information in Annex 10 is 
updated. 
 
Article 83 
Notification under Emergency Situation 
 
 
 
53
1. 
Each Member State acknowledges the value of exchanging 
information, particularly in an emergency situation on food safety crisis, 
interception, control of pests and/or disease outbreaks and its sanitary 
or phytosanitary measures.  
 
2.     Member States shall immediately notify all contact points and the 
ASEAN Secretariat should the following situations occur:  
 
(a) 
in case of food safety crisis, pest or disease outbreaks; 
and 
 
(b) 
provisional sanitary or phytosanitary  measures against or 
affecting the exports of the other Member States are 
considered necessary to protect the human, animal or 
plant life or health of the importing Member State. 
 
3.  
The exporting Member State should, to the extent possible, 
endeavour to provide information to the importing Member State if the 
exporting Member State identifies that an export consignment which 
may be associated with a significant sanitary or phytosanitary risk has 
been exported. 
 
 
 
 
Article 84 
Equivalence 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall initiate and further strengthen co-
operation on equivalence in accordance with the SPS Agreement and 
relevant international standards, guidelines and recommendations, in 
order to facilitate trade between and among the Member States. 
 
2. 
To facilitate trade, Member States may develop equivalence 
arrangements and recommend equivalence decisions, in particular in 
accordance with Article 4 of the SPS Agreement and with the guidance 
provided by the relevant international and regional standard setting 
bodies namely Codex, OIE, IPPC and ASEAN and by the Committee 
on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures established in accordance 
with Article 12 of the SPS Agreement.   
 
3. 
Each Member State shall, upon request, enter into consultations 
with the aim of achieving bilateral and/or regional recognition 
arrangements of the equivalence of specified sanitary or phytosanitary 
measures. 
 
 
 
54
Article 85 
Co-operation 
 
1. 
Each Member State shall explore opportunities for further co-
operation, 
technical 
assistance, 
collaboration 
and 
information 
exchange with other Member States on sanitary and phytosanitary 
matters of mutual interest consistent with the objectives of this Chapter 
and the commitments set forth in the ASEAN Economic Community 
Blueprint.  
 
2. 
Member States shall further strengthen co-operation for the 
control and eradication of pests and disease outbreaks, and other 
emergency cases related to sanitary or phytosanitary measures as well 
as to assist other Member States to comply with SPS requirements. 
3. 
In implementing the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, 
Member States shall co-ordinate their undertakings with the activities 
conducted in the regional and multilateral context, with the objectives of 
avoiding unnecessary duplication and maximising efficiency of efforts 
of the Member States in this field. 
 
4. 
Any two (2) Member States may, by mutual agreement, co-
operate on adaptation to  regional conditions including the concept of 
pests and disease free areas and areas of low pests or disease 
prevalence, in accordance with the SPS Agreement and relevant 
international standards, guidelines and recommendations, in order to 
facilitate trade between the Member States. 
 
 
CHAPTER 9 
TRADE REMEDY MEASURES 
 
Article 86  
Safeguard Measures 
 
Each Member State which is a WTO member retains its rights and 
obligations under Article XIX of GATT 1994, and the Agreement on 
Safeguards or Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture. 
 
Article 87 
Anti-dumping and Countervailing Duties 
 
1. 
Member States affirm their rights and obligations with respect to 
each other relating to the application of anti-dumping under Article VI of 
GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 as contained in Annex 
1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
 
55
 
2. 
Member States affirm their rights and obligations with respect to 
each other relating to subsidies and countervailing measures under 
Article XVI of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and 
Countervailing Measures as contained in Annex 1A to the WTO 
Agreement. 
 
 
CHAPTER 10 
INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 88 
Advisory and Consultative Mechanism 
 
The ASEAN Consultations to Solve Trade and Investment Issues 
(ACT) and the ASEAN Compliance Monitoring Body (ACB) as 
contained in the Declaration on ASEAN Concord II (Bali Concord II) 
may be invoked to settle disputes that may arise from this Agreement. 
Any Member State who does not wish to avail of the ACT/ACB may 
resort to the mechanism provided in the ASEAN Protocol on Enhanced 
Dispute Settlement Mechanism. 
 
Article 89 
Dispute Settlement 
 
The ASEAN Protocol on Enhanced Dispute Settlement Mechanism, 
signed on 29 November 2004 in Vientiane, Lao PDR and amendments 
thereto, shall apply in relation to any dispute arising from, or any 
difference between Member States concerning the interpretation or 
application of this Agreement. 
 
Article 90 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The ASEAN Economic Ministers (AEM) shall, for the purposes 
of this Agreement, establish an ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) 
Council comprising one (1) ministerial-level nominee from each 
Member State and the Secretary-General of ASEAN. In the 
performance of its functions, the AFTA Council shall also be supported 
by the Senior Economic Officials' Meeting (SEOM). In the fulfilment of 
its functions, the SEOM may establish bodies, as appropriate, to assist 
them such as the Coordinating Committee on the implementation of 
ATIGA (CCA). The SEOM, assisted by the CCA, shall ensure the 
effective implementation of this Agreement and, shall coordinate and 
be supported by technical bodies and committees under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
56
 
2. 
Each Member State shall establish a National AFTA Unit, which 
shall serve a national focal point for the coordination of the 
implementation of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The ASEAN Secretariat shall:  
 
(a) 
provide support to the AEM and AFTA Council in 
supervising, 
co-ordinating 
and 
reviewing 
the 
implementation of this Agreement as well as assistance 
in all related matters; and 
 
(b) 
monitor and regularly report to the AFTA Council on the 
progress in the implementation of this Agreement. 
 
 
CHAPTER 11 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 91 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
1. 
Subject to paragraph 2 of this Article, all ASEAN economic 
agreements that exist before the entry into force of ATIGA shall 
continue to be valid.  
 
2. 
Member States shall agree on the list of agreements to be 
superseded within six (6) months from the date of entry into force and 
such list shall be administratively annexed to this Agreement and serve 
as an integral part of this Agreement. 
3. 
In case of inconsistency between this Agreement and any 
ASEAN economic agreements that are not superseded under 
paragraph 2 of this Article, this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Article 92 
Amended or Successor International Agreements 
 
If any international agreement or a provision therein referred to, or 
incorporated into, this Agreement, and such agreement or provision is 
amended, the Member States shall consult on whether it is necessary 
to amend this Agreement, unless this Agreement provides otherwise.  
 
 
Article 93 
Annexes, Attachments and Future Instruments 
 
 
 
57
1. 
The Annexes and Attachments to this Agreement shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Member States may adopt legal instruments in the future 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.  Upon their respective 
entry into force, such instruments shall form part of this Agreement. 
 
Article 94 
Amendments 
 
1. 
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through 
amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the Member States. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, the Annexes and 
Attachments to this Agreement may be modified through amendments 
endorsed by the AFTA Council. The said amendments shall be 
administratively annexed to this Agreement and serve as an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
Article 95 
Review 
 
The AFTA Council or their designated representatives shall meet within 
one (1) year of the date of entry into force of this Agreement and then 
every two (2) years or otherwise as appropriate to review this 
Agreement for the purpose of fulfilling the objective of this Agreement. 
 
Article 96 
Entry into Force 
 
1. 
This Agreement shall be signed by the ASEAN Economic 
Ministers. 
 
2. 
This Agreement shall enter into force, after all Member States 
have notified or, where necessary, deposited instruments of 
ratifications with the Secretary-General of ASEAN upon completion of 
their internal procedures, which shall not take more than one hundred 
and eighty (180) days after the signing of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Secretary-General of ASEAN shall promptly notify all 
Member States of the notifications or deposit of each instrument of 
ratification referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 
 
Article 97 
Reservations 
 
 
 
58
No reservations shall be made with respect to any of the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
 
Article 98 
Depositary 
 
This Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of 
ASEAN who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof to each 
Member State. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised 
thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the ASEAN 
Trade in Goods Agreement. 
 
 
DONE at Cha-am, Thailand, this Twenty Sixth Day of February in the 
Year Two Thousand and Nine, in a single original copy in the English 
language. 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam: 
 
 
 
 
LIM JOCK SENG 
Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
 
 
For the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce 
 
 
For the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
59
 
For the Lao People’s Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
 
For Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
MUHYIDDIN BIN MOHAMMAD YASSIN 
Minister of International Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning and Economic Development 
 
 
For the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
60
 
 
For the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
PORNTIVA NAKASAI 
Minister of Commerce 
Minister of Commerce 
 
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
