 
 
 
ASEAN COMPREHENSIVE INVESTMENT AGREEMENT  
 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia,  the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the 
Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the 
Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, 
Member  States  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  (“ASEAN”),  hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as 
“Member States” or singularly as “Member State”; 
 
RECALLING  the  decisions  of  the  39th  ASEAN  Economic 
Ministers (“AEM”) Meeting held in Makati City, Philippines on 
23 August 2007 to revise the Framework Agreement on the 
ASEAN Investment Area signed in Makati City, Philippines 
on 7 October 1998 (“AIA Agreement”), as amended, into a 
comprehensive  investment  agreement  which  is  forward-
looking, with improved features and provisions, comparable 
to  international  best  practices  in  order  to  increase  intra-
ASEAN  investments  and  to  enhance  ASEAN’s 
competitiveness  in  attracting  inward  investments  into 
ASEAN; 
 
RECOGNISING  the  different  levels  of  development  within 
ASEAN especially the least developed Member States which 
require  some  flexibility  including  special  and  differential 
treatment as ASEAN moves towards a more integrated and 
interdependent future; 
 
REAFFIRMING  the  need  to  move  forward  from  the  AIA 
Agreement  and  the  ASEAN  Agreement  for  the  Promotion 
and Protection of Investments signed in Manila, Philippines 
on 15 December 1987 (“ASEAN IGA”), as amended, in order 
to further enhance regional integration to realise the vision of 
the ASEAN Economic Community (“AEC”);  
 
CONVINCED that sustained inflows of new investments and 
reinvestments  will  promote  and  ensure  dynamic 
development of ASEAN economies; 
 
RECOGNISING  that  a  conducive  investment  environment 
will  enhance  freer  flow  of  capital,  goods  and  services, 
technology and human resource and overall economic and 
social development in ASEAN; and 
 
DETERMINED  to  further  intensify  economic  cooperation 
between and among Member States, 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
Article 1 
Objective 
 
The objective of this Agreement is to create a free and open 
investment  regime  in  ASEAN  in  order  to  achieve  the  end 
goal of economic integration under the AEC in accordance 
with the AEC Blueprint, through the following: 
 
(a)  progressive  liberalisation  of  the  investment 
regimes of Member States; 
 
(b)  provision of enhanced protection to investors of 
all Member States and their investments; 
 
(c)  improvement of transparency and predictability of 
investment  rules,  regulations  and  procedures 
conducive  to  increased  investment  among 
Member States; 
 
(d)  joint  promotion  of  the  region  as  an  integrated 
investment area; and 
 
  2  
(e)  cooperation  to  create  favourable  conditions  for 
investment by investors of a Member State in the 
territory of the other Member States. 
 
 
Article 2 
Guiding Principles 
 
This Agreement shall create a liberal, facilitative, transparent 
and  competitive  investment  environment  in  ASEAN  by 
adhering to the following principles: 
 
(a)  provide  for  investment  liberalisation,  protection, 
investment promotion and facilitation; 
 
(b)  progressive  liberalisation  of  investment  with  a 
view  towards  achieving  a  free  and  open 
investment environment in the region; 
 
(c)  benefit investors and their investments based in 
ASEAN;  
 
(d)  maintain  and  accord  preferential  treatment 
among Member States; 
 
(e)  no  back-tracking  of  commitments  made  under 
the AIA Agreement  and the ASEAN IGA; 
 
(f)  grant special and differential treatment and other 
flexibilities to Member States depending on their 
level of development and sectoral sensitivities; 
 
(g)  reciprocal  treatment  in  the  enjoyment  of 
concessions  among  Member  States,  where 
appropriate; and  
 
(h)  accommodate  expansion  of  scope  of  this 
Agreement to cover other sectors in the future. 
 
 
 
  3  
 
 
Article 3 
Scope of Application 
 
1.  This  Agreement  shall  apply  to  measures  adopted  or 
maintained by a Member State relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of any other Member State; and  
 
(b)  investments,  in  its  territory,  of  investors  of  any 
other Member State. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall apply to existing investments as 
at the date of entry into force of this Agreement as well as to 
investments  made  after  the  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  For the purpose of liberalisation and subject to Article 9 
(Reservations), this Agreement shall apply to the following 
sectors: 
 
(a)  manufacturing; 
 
(b)  agriculture; 
 
(c)  fishery; 
 
(d)  forestry; 
 
(e)  mining and quarrying; 
 
(f)  services incidental to manufacturing, agriculture, 
fishery, forestry, mining and quarrying; and 
 
(g)  any other sectors, as may be agreed upon by all 
Member States. 
 
 
 
 
  4  
 
 
4.  This Agreement shall not apply to: 
 
(a)   any  taxation  measures,  except  for  Articles  13 
(Transfers)  and  14  (Expropriation  and 
Compensation); 
 
(b)   subsidies or grants provided by a Member State; 
  
(c)   government procurement; 
 
(d)   services supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority by the relevant body or authority of a 
Member  State.  For  the  purposes  of  this 
Agreement, a service supplied in the exercise of 
governmental authority means any service, which 
is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in 
competition with one or more service suppliers; 
and 
 
(e)   measures adopted or maintained by a Member 
State  affecting  trade  in  services  under  the 
ASEAN  Framework  Agreement  on  Services 
signed  in  Bangkok,  Thailand  on  15  December 
1995 (“AFAS”). 
 
5.  Notwithstanding sub-paragraph 4 (e), for the purpose 
of protection of investment with respect to the commercial 
presence mode of service supply, Articles 11 (Treatment of 
Investment),  12  (Compensation  in  Cases  of  Strife),  13 
(Transfers),  14  (Expropriation  and  Compensation)  and  15 
(Subrogation) and Section B (Investment Disputes Between 
an  Investor  and  a  Member  State),  shall  apply,  mutatis 
mutandis, to any measure affecting the supply of a service 
by a service supplier of a Member State through commercial 
presence in the territory of any other Member State but only 
to the extent that they relate to an investment and obligation 
under  this  Agreement  regardless  of  whether  or  not  such 
service sector is scheduled in the Member States’ schedule 
of commitments made under AFAS.  
  5  
 
 
6.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and 
obligations of any Member State under any tax convention. 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement 
and any such convention, that convention shall prevail to the 
extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
Article 4 
Definitions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  “covered investment” means, with respect to a 
Member State, an investment in its territory of an 
investor of any other Member State in existence 
as  of  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement or established, acquired or expanded 
thereafter, and has been admitted according to 
its  laws,  regulations,  and  national  policies,  and 
where applicable, specifically approved in writing1 
by the competent authority of a Member State; 
 
(b)   “freely usable currency” means a freely usable 
currency  as  determined  by  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (“IMF”)  under  its  Articles  of 
Agreement and any amendments thereto; 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
1   For the purpose of protection, the procedures relating to specific 
approval in writing shall be as specified in Annex 1 (Approval in 
Writing). 
 
  6  
(c)   “investment”2 means every kind of asset, owned 
or  controlled,  by  an  investor,  including  but  not 
limited to the following: 
 
(i)  movable and immovable property and other 
property rights such as mortgages, liens or 
pledges; 
 
(ii)  shares, stocks, bonds and debentures and 
any other forms of participation in a juridical 
person  and  rights  or  interest  derived 
therefrom; 
 
(iii)  intellectual  property  rights  which  are 
conferred  pursuant  to  the  laws  and 
regulations of each Member State; 
 
(iv)  claims  to  money  or  to  any  contractual 
performance  related  to  a  business  and 
having financial value;3 
 
(v)  rights  under  contracts,  including  turnkey, 
construction,  management,  production  or 
revenue-sharing contracts; and 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
2   Where  an  asset  lacks  the  characteristics  of  an  investment,  that 
asset is not an investment regardless of the form it may take. The 
characteristics of an investment include the commitment of capital, 
the expectation of gain or profit, or the assumption of risk. 
 
3   For greater certainty, investment does not mean claims to money 
that arise solely from: 
(a)  commercial contracts for sale of goods or services; or 
(b)  the extension of credit in connection with such commercial 
contracts. 
 
 
  7  
(vi)  business concessions required to conduct 
economic  activities  and  having  financial 
value conferred by law or under a contract, 
including  any  concessions  to  search, 
cultivate,  extract  or  exploit  natural 
resources. 
 
The  term  “investment”  also  includes  amounts 
yielded  by  investments,  in  particular,  profits, 
interest,  capital  gains,  dividend,  royalties  and 
fees. Any alteration of the form in which assets 
are invested or reinvested shall not affect their 
classification as investment; 
 
(d)   “investor” means a natural person of a Member 
State or a juridical person of a Member State that 
is  making,  or  has  made  an  investment  in  the 
territory of any other Member State; 
 
(e)   “juridical  person”  means  any  legal  entity  duly 
constituted  or  otherwise  organised  under  the 
applicable  law  of  a  Member  State,  whether  for 
profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned 
or  governmentally-owned,  including  any 
enterprise,  corporation,  trust,  partnership,  joint 
venture,  sole  proprietorship,  association,  or 
organisation; 
 
(f)   “measures”  means  any  measure  of  a  Member 
State, whether in the form of laws, regulations, 
rules, procedures, decisions, and administrative 
actions or practice, adopted or maintained by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local government or 
authorities; or 
 
(ii)  non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
powers  delegated  by  central,  regional  or 
local governments or authorities; 
 
  8  
(g)   “natural  person”  means  any  natural  person 
possessing  the  nationality  or  citizenship  of,  or 
right  of  permanent  residence  in  the  Member 
State in accordance with its laws, regulations and 
national policies; 
 
(h)   “newer  ASEAN  Member  States”  means  the 
Kingdom  of  Cambodia,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and 
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam; 
 
(i)  “WTO” means the World Trade Organization; and 
 
(j)  “WTO  Agreement”  means  the  Marrakesh 
Agreement  Establishing  the  World  Trade 
Organization, done at Marrakesh, Morocco on 15 
April 1994, as may be amended. 
 
 
Article 5 
National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Member State shall accord to investors of any 
other Member State treatment no less favourable than that it 
accords,  in  like  circumstances,  to  its  own  investors  with 
respect  to  the  admission,  establishment,  acquisition, 
expansion,  management,  conduct,  operation  and  sale  or 
other disposition of investments in its territory. 
 
2.  Each  Member  State  shall  accord  to  investments  of 
investors  of  any  other  Member  State  treatment  no  less 
favourable  than  that  it  accords,  in  like  circumstances,  to 
investments in its territory of its own investors with respect to 
the  admission,  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion, 
management,  conduct,  operation  and  sale  or  other 
disposition of investments. 
 
 
 
 
 
  9  
 
 
Article 6 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment4 
 
1.  Each  Member  State  shall  accord  to  investors  of 
another Member State treatment no less favourable than that 
it accords, in like circumstances, to investors of any other 
Member State or a non-Member State with respect to the 
admission,  establishment,  acquisition,  expansion, 
management,  conduct,  operation  and  sale  or  other 
disposition of investments. 
 
2.  Each  Member  State  shall  accord  to  investments  of 
investors  of  another  Member  State  treatment  no  less 
favourable  than  that  it  accords,  in  like  circumstances,  to 
investments in its territory of investors of any other Member 
State or a non-Member State with respect to the admission, 
establishment,  acquisition,  expansion,  management, 
conduct,  operation  and  sale  or  other  disposition  of 
investments. 
 
3.  Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be construed so as to 
oblige a Member State to extend to investors or investments 
of  other  Member  States  the  benefit  of  any  treatment, 
preference or privilege resulting from: 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
4   For greater certainty:  
(a)  this  Article  shall  not  apply  to  investor-State  dispute 
settlement procedures that are available in other agreements 
to which Member States are party; and  
(b)   in  relation  to  investments  falling  within  the  scope  of  this 
Agreement, any preferential treatment granted by a Member 
State  to  investors  of  any  other  Member  State  or  a  non-
Member State and to their investments, under any existing or 
future agreements or arrangements to which a Member State 
is a party shall be extended on a most-favoured-nation basis 
to all Member States. 
   
  10  
 
(a)   any  sub-regional  arrangements  between  and 
among Member States;5 or  
   
(b)   any  existing  agreement  notified  by  Member 
States to the AIA Council pursuant to Article 8(3) 
of the AIA Agreement.6 
 
 
Article 7 
Prohibition of Performance Requirements 
 
1.  The  provisions  of  the  Agreement  on  Trade-Related 
Investment Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement 
(TRIMs), which are not specifically mentioned in or modified 
by  this  Agreement,  shall  apply,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  this 
Agreement. 
 
2.  Member  States  shall  undertake  joint  assessment  on 
performance  requirements  no  later  than  2  years  from  the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement.  The aim of such 
assessment  shall  include  reviewing  existing  performance 
requirements  and  considering  the  need  for  additional 
commitments under this Article. 
 
3.   Non-WTO Members of ASEAN shall abide by the WTO 
provisions in accordance with their accession commitments 
to the WTO. 
 
 
                                                 
5   For  greater  certainty,  sub-regional  arrangements  between  and 
among Member States shall include but not be limited to Greater 
Mekong Sub-region (“GMS”), ASEAN Mekong Basin Development 
Cooperation  (“AMBDC”),  Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand  Growth 
Triangle  (“IMT-GT”),  Indonesia-Malaysia-Singapore  Growth 
Triangle  (“IMS-GT”),  Brunei-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines  East 
ASEAN Growth Area (“BIMP-EAGA”). 
 
6   This sub-paragraph refers to the Treaty of Amity and Economic 
Relations between the Kingdom of Thailand and the United States 
of America signed in Bangkok, Thailand on 29 May 1966. 
  11  
 
 
Article 8  
Senior Management and Board of Directors 
 
1.  A Member State shall not require that a juridical person 
of  that  Member  State  appoint  to  senior  management 
positions, natural persons of any particular nationality. 
 
2.  A  Member  State  may  require  that  a  majority  of  the 
board of directors of a juridical person of that Member State, 
be of a particular nationality, or resident in the territory of the 
Member  State,  provided  that  this  requirement  does  not 
materially impair the ability of the investor to exercise control 
over its investment. 
 
 
Article 9 
Reservations 
 
1.  Articles  5  (National  Treatment)  and  8  (Senior 
Management and Board of Directors) shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any  existing  measure  that  is  maintained  by  a 
Member State at: 
 
(i)   the central level of government, as set out 
by that Member State in its reservation list 
in the Schedule referred to in paragraph 2;  
 
(ii)   the regional level of government, as set out 
by that Member State in its reservation list 
in the Schedule referred to in paragraph 2; 
and 
 
(iii)  a local level of government; 
  
(b)  the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any 
reservations referred to sub-paragraph (a). 
 
 
  12  
 
 
2.  Each Member State shall submit its reservation list to 
the  ASEAN  Secretariat  for  the  endorsement  of  the  AIA 
Council  within  6  months  after  the  date  of  signing  of  this 
Agreement.  This  list  shall  form  a  Schedule  to  this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  Any  amendment  or  modification  to  any  reservations 
contained in the Schedule referred to in paragraph 2 shall be 
in accordance with Article 10 (Modification of Commitments). 
 
4.  Each  Member  State  shall  reduce  or  eliminate  the 
reservations specified in the Schedule in accordance with the 
three phases of the Strategic Schedule of the AEC Blueprint 
and Article 46 (Amendments).  
 
5.  Articles 5 (National Treatment) and 6 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment) shall not apply to any measure covered by 
an  exception to,  or  derogation from,  the  obligations  under 
Articles 3 and 4 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects 
of  Intellectual  Property  Rights  in  Annex  1C  to  the  WTO 
Agreement, as may be amended (“TRIPS Agreement”), as 
specifically provided in those Articles and in Article 5 of the 
TRIPS Agreement.  
 
 
Article 10  
Modification of Commitments 
 
1.  For a period of 12 months after the date of submission 
of  each  Member  State’s  reservation  list,  a  Member  State 
may adopt any measures or modify any of its reservations 
made  in  the  Schedule  under  Article  9  (Reservations)  for 
prospective  applications  to  investors  of  any  other  Member 
States and their investments, provided that such measures 
or  modification  shall  not  adversely  affect  any  existing 
investors and investments. 
 
2.   After  the  expiration  of  the  period  referred  to  in 
paragraph  1,  a  Member  State  may,  by  negotiation  and 
  13  
agreement with any other Member States to which it made 
commitments under this Agreement, adopt any measure, or 
modify  or  withdraw  such  commitments  and  reservations, 
provided that such measure, modification or withdrawal shall 
not adversely affect any existing investors or investments.7 
 
3.  In any such negotiations and agreement referred to in 
paragraph 2, which may include provisions for compensatory 
adjustments  with  respect  to  other  sectors,  the  Member 
States concerned shall maintain a general level of reciprocal 
and mutually advantageous commitments and reservations 
that is not less favourable to investors and investments than 
that provided for in this Agreement prior to such negotiations 
and agreements.  
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, a Member State 
shall not, under any measure adopted pursuant to this Article 
after  the  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement,  require  an 
investor  of  any  other  Member  State,  by  reason  of  that 
investor’s  nationality,  to  sell  or  otherwise  dispose  of  an 
investment  existing  at  the  time  the  measure  becomes 
effective, unless otherwise specified in the initial approval by 
the relevant authorities. 
 
 
Article 11  
Treatment of Investment 
 
1.  Each  Member  State  shall  accord  to  covered 
investments of investors of any other Member State, fair and 
equitable treatment and full protection and security.  
 
2.  For greater certainty: 
 
 
                                                 
7   For the avoidance of doubt, Member States shall not adopt any 
measures or modify any of its reservation under the Schedule for a 
period of 6 months after the expiration of the period specified in 
paragraph 1. 
 
  14  
 
 
(a)  fair  and  equitable  treatment  requires  each 
Member State not to deny justice in any legal or 
administrative  proceedings  in  accordance  with 
the principle of due process; and 
 
(b)  full protection and security requires each Member 
State  to  take  such  measures  as  may  be 
reasonably  necessary  to  ensure  the  protection 
and security of the covered investments. 
 
3.   A  determination  that  there  has  been  a  breach  of 
another  provision  of  this  Agreement,  or  of  a  separate 
international  agreement,  does  not  establish  that  there  has 
been a breach of this Article. 
 
 
Article 12  
Compensation in Cases of Strife 
 
Each Member State shall accord to investors of any other 
Member State, in relation to their covered investments which 
suffered losses in its territory due to armed conflict or civil 
strife  or  state  of  emergency,  non-discriminatory  treatment 
with  respect to  restitution, compensation  or  other  valuable 
consideration. 
 
 
Article 13  
Transfers 
 
1.  Each Member State shall allow all transfers relating to 
a covered investment to be made freely and without delay 
into and out of its territory.  Such transfers include: 
 
(a)  contributions  to  capital,  including  the  initial 
contribution;  
 
(b)  profits, capital gains, dividends, royalties, license 
fees,  technical  assistance  and  technical  and 
  15  
management  fees,  interest  and  other  current 
income accruing from any covered investment; 
 
(c)  proceeds  from  the  total  or  partial  sale  or 
liquidation of any covered investment; 
 
(d)  payments  made  under  a  contract,  including  a 
loan agreement; 
 
(e)  payments  made  pursuant  to  Articles  12 
(Compensation  in  Cases  of  Strife)  and  14 
(Expropriation and Compensation); 
 
(f)  payments  arising  out  of  the  settlement  of  a 
dispute  by  any  means  including  adjudication, 
arbitration  or  the  agreement  of  the  Member 
States to the dispute; and 
 
(g)  earnings  and  other  remuneration  of  personnel 
employed and allowed to work in connection with 
that covered investment in its territory. 
 
2.   Each Member State shall allow transfers relating to a 
covered investment to be made in a freely usable currency at 
the market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer. 
 
3.   Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, a Member State 
may prevent or delay a transfer through the equitable, non-
discriminatory,  and  good  faith  application  of  its  laws  and 
regulations relating to: 
 
(a)   bankruptcy, insolvency, or the protection of the 
rights of creditors; 
 
(b)   issuing, trading, or dealing in securities, futures, 
options, or derivatives; 
 
(c)   criminal or penal offences and the recovery of the 
proceeds of crime; 
 
  16  
(d)   financial reporting or record keeping of transfers 
when  necessary  to  assist  law  enforcement  or 
financial regulatory authorities; 
 
(e)   ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in 
judicial or administrative proceedings;  
 
(f)    taxation; 
 
(g)   social security, public retirement, or compulsory 
savings schemes;   
 
(h)   severance entitlements of employees; and 
 
(i)   the  requirement  to  register  and  satisfy  other 
formalities  imposed  by  the  Central  Bank  and 
other relevant authorities of a Member State. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and 
obligations of the Member States as members of the IMF, 
under the Articles of Agreement of the IMF, including the use 
of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles 
of Agreement of the IMF, provided that a Member State shall 
not  impose  restrictions  on  any  capital  transactions 
inconsistently  with  its  specific  commitments  under  this 
Agreement regarding such transactions, except: 
 
(a)   at the request of the IMF;  
 
(b)  under  Article  16  (Measures  to  Safeguard  the 
Balance-of-Payments); or  
 
(c)  where, in exceptional circumstances, movements 
of  capital  cause,  or  threaten  to  cause,  serious 
economic or financial disturbance in the Member 
State concerned. 
 
  17  
5.  The measures taken in accordance with sub-paragraph 
4(c)8: 
 
(a)   shall be consistent with the Articles of Agreement 
of the IMF; 
 
(b)   shall not exceed those necessary to deal with the 
circumstances described in sub-paragraph 4(c); 
 
(c)   shall  be  temporary  and  shall  be  eliminated  as 
soon  as  conditions    no  longer  justify  their 
institution or maintenance; 
 
(d)  shall  promptly  be  notified  to  the  other  Member 
States; 
 
(e)  shall be applied  such that any one of the other 
Member States is treated no less favourably than 
any other Member State or non-Member State; 
 
(f)  shall be applied  on a national treatment basis;  
and 
 
(g)   shall  avoid  unnecessary  damage  to    investors 
and  covered  investments,  and  the  commercial, 
economic  and  financial  interests  of  the  other 
Member State(s). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
8   For greater certainty, any measures taken to ensure the stability of 
the  exchange  rate  including  to  prevent  speculative  capital  flows 
shall not be adopted or maintained for the purpose of protecting a 
particular sector. 
  18  
Article 14 
Expropriation and Compensation9 
 
1.  A Member State shall not expropriate or nationalise a 
covered  investment  either  directly  or  through  measures 
equivalent  to  expropriation  or  nationalisation 
(“expropriation”),10 except: 
 
(a)   for a public purpose; 
 
(b)   in a non-discriminatory manner; 
 
(c)  on payment of prompt, adequate, and effective 
compensation; and 
 
(d)   in accordance with due process of law. 
 
2.  The  compensation  referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  1(c) 
shall: 
 
(a)  be paid without delay;11 
 
(b)  be  equivalent  to  the  fair  market  value  of  the 
expropriated investment immediately before or at 
the  time  when  the  expropriation  was  publicly 
announced, or when the expropriation occurred, 
whichever is applicable;  
 
 
                                                 
9   This  Article  shall  be  read  with  Annex  2  (Expropriation  and 
Compensation). 
 
10  For the avoidance of doubt, any measure of expropriation relating to 
land shall be as defined in the Member States’ respective existing 
domestic laws and regulations and any amendments thereto, and 
shall be for the purposes of and upon payment of compensation in 
accordance with the aforesaid laws and regulations. 
 
11  Member  States  understand  that  there  may  be  legal  and 
administrative processes that need to be observed before payment 
can be made. 
 
  19  
 
 
 
(c)  not  reflect  any  change  in  value  because  the 
intended  expropriation  had  become  known 
earlier;  and 
 
(d)  be  fully  realisable  and  freely  transferable  in 
accordance with Article  13 (Transfers) between 
the territories of the Member States. 
 
3.  In the event of delay, the compensation shall include 
an  appropriate  interest  in  accordance  with  the  laws  and 
regulations of the Member State making the expropriation.  
The compensation, including any accrued interest, shall be 
payable either in the currency in which the investment was 
originally made or, if requested by the investor, in a freely 
usable currency. 
 
4.  If  an  investor  requests  payment  in  a  freely  useable 
currency,  the  compensation  referred  to  in  sub-paragraph 
1(c), including any accrued interest, shall be converted into 
the  currency  of  payment  at  the  market  rate  of  exchange 
prevailing on the date of payment. 
 
5.  This  Article  does  not  apply  to  the  issuance  of 
compulsory  licenses  granted  in  relation  to  intellectual 
property rights in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
 
Article 15  
Subrogation 
 
1.  If a Member State or an agency of a Member State 
makes a payment to an investor of that Member State under 
a  guarantee,  a  contract  of  insurance  or  other  form  of 
indemnity it has granted on non-commercial risk in respect of 
an investment, the other Member State shall recognise the 
subrogation or transfer of any right or title in respect of such 
investment.    The  subrogated  or  transferred  right  or  claim 
shall not be greater than the original right or claim of the 
  20  
investor.  This,  however,  does  not  necessarily  imply 
recognition of the latter Member State of the merits of any 
case or the amount of any claims arising therefrom.   
 
2.  Where  a  Member  State  or  an  agency  of  a  Member 
State has made a payment to an investor of that Member 
State and has taken over rights and claims of the investor, 
that investor shall not, unless authorised to act on behalf of 
the  Member  State  or  the  agency  of  the  Member  State 
making the payment, pursue those rights and claims against 
the other Member State.  
 
3.  In  the  exercise  of  subrogated  rights  or  claims,  a 
Member State or the agency of the Member State exercising 
such  rights  or  claims  shall  disclose  the  coverage  of  the 
claims arrangement with its investors to the relevant Member 
State. 
 
 
 
 
Article 16  
Measures to Safeguard the  
Balance-of-Payments 
 
1.  In  the  event  of  serious  balance-of-payments  and 
external  financial  difficulties  or  threat  thereof,  a  Member 
State  may  adopt  or  maintain  restrictions  on  payments  or 
transfers  related  to  investments.    It  is  recognised  that 
particular  pressures  on  the  balance-of-payments  of  a 
Member State in the process of economic development may 
necessitate the use of restrictions to ensure, inter alia, the 
maintenance of a level of financial reserves adequate for the 
implementation of its programme of economic development. 
 
2.  The restrictions referred to in paragraph 1 shall: 
 
(a)   be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of 
the IMF; 
 
  21  
(b)  avoid  unnecessary  damage  to  the  commercial, 
economic  and  financial  interests  of  another 
Member State; 
 
(c)  not  exceed  those  necessary  to  deal  with  the 
circumstances described in paragraph 1; 
 
(d)   be  temporary  and  be  phased  out  progressively 
as  the  situation  specified  in  paragraph  1 
improves;  
 
(e)   be  applied  such  that  any  one  of  the  other 
Member States is treated no less favourably than 
any other Member State or non-Member State. 
 
3.  Any  restrictions  adopted  or  maintained  under 
paragraph  1,  or  any  changes  therein,  shall  be  promptly 
notified to the other Member States. 
 
4.  To  the  extent  that  it  does  not  duplicate  the  process 
under  WTO,  IMF,  or  any  other  similar  processes,  the 
Member State adopting any restrictions under paragraph 1 
shall commence consultations with any other Member State 
that  requests  such  consultations  in  order  to  review  the 
restrictions adopted by it. 
 
 
Article 17 
General Exceptions 
 
1.  Subject to the requirement that such measures are not 
applied  in  a  manner  which  would  constitute  a  means  of 
arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  between  Member 
States or their investors where like conditions prevail, or a 
disguised restriction on investors of any other Member State 
and  their  investments,  nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  be 
construed  to  prevent  the  adoption  or  enforcement  by  any 
Member State of measures: 
 
 
 
  22  
 
 
(a)   necessary to protect public morals or to maintain 
public order;12 
 
(b)   necessary to protect human, animal or plant life 
or health; 
 
(c)   necessary  to  secure  compliance  with  laws  or 
regulations  which  are  not  inconsistent  with  this 
Agreement, including those relating to: 
 
(i)  the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent 
practices  to  deal  with  the  effects  of  a 
default on a contract; 
 
(ii)   the protection of the privacy of individuals 
in  relation  to  the  processing  and 
dissemination  of  personal  data  and  the 
protection  of  confidentiality  of  individual 
records and accounts;  
 
(iii)   safety; 
 
(d)   aimed  at  ensuring  the  equitable  or  effective13 
imposition or collection of direct taxes in respect 
of investments or investors of any Member State; 
 
(e)   imposed for the protection of national treasures 
of artistic, historic or archaeological value;  
 
 
                                                 
12  The public order exception may be invoked by a Member State only 
where a genuine and sufficiently serious threat is posed to one of 
the fundamental interests of society. 
 
13  For the purpose of this sub-paragraph, footnote 6 of Article XIV of 
the General Agreement on Trade in Services in Annex 1B to the 
WTO Agreement (GATS) is incorporated into and forms an integral 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
  23  
 
(f)  relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural 
resources if such measures are made effective in 
conjunction  with  restrictions  on  domestic 
production or consumption. 
 
2.   Insofar  as  measures  affecting the  supply  of  financial 
services are concerned, paragraph 2 (Domestic Regulation) 
of  the  Annex  on  Financial  Services  of  the  General 
Agreement on Trade in Services in Annex 1B to the WTO 
Agreement (“GATS”) shall be incorporated into and form an 
integral part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
 
Article 18  
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  to  require  any  Member  State  to  furnish  any 
information, the disclosure of which it considers 
contrary to its essential security interests; or  
 
(b)  to  prevent  any  Member  State  from  taking  any 
action  which  it  considers  necessary  for  the 
protection  of  its  essential  security  interests, 
including but not limited to:  
           
(i)    action relating to fissionable and fusionable 
materials or the materials from which they 
derived;  
     
(ii)  action  relating  to  the  traffic  in  arms, 
ammunition and implements of war and to 
such traffic in other goods and materials as 
is  carried  on  directly  or  indirectly  for  the 
purpose  of  supplying  a  military 
establishment;  
   
 
 
  24  
 
   
(iii)  action  taken  in  time  of  war  or  other 
emergency  in  domestic  or  international 
relations;  
 
(iv)   action taken so as to protect critical public 
infrastructure,  including  communication, 
power  and  water  infrastructures,  from 
deliberate attempts intended to disable or 
degrade such infrastructure; or 
  
(c)    to  prevent  any  Member  State  from  taking  any 
action  pursuant  to  its  obligations  under  the 
United  Nations  Charter  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
 
 
Article 19  
Denial of Benefits 
 
1.  A  Member  State  may  deny  the  benefits  of  this 
Agreement to: 
 
(a)  an  investor  of  another  Member  State  that  is  a 
juridical person of such other Member State and 
to investments of such investor if an investor of a 
non-Member State owns or controls the juridical 
person  and  the  juridical  person  has  no 
substantive business operations in the territory of 
such other Member State; 
 
(b)  an  investor  of  another  Member  State  that  is  a 
juridical person of such other Member State and 
to investments of such investor if an investor of 
the denying Member State owns or controls the 
juridical person and the juridical person has no 
substantive business operations in the territory of 
such other Member State; and 
 
 
  25  
 
 
(c)    an  investor  of  another  Member  State  that  is  a 
juridical person of such other Member State and 
to an investment of such investor if investors of a 
non-Member State  own or control the juridical 
person, and the denying Member State does not 
maintain  diplomatic  relations  with  the  non-
Member State. 
 
2.  Following  notification  to  the  Member  State  of  the 
investor,  and  without  prejudice to  paragraph  1,  a  Member 
State may deny the benefits of this Agreement to investors of 
another Member State and to investments of that investor, 
where  it  establishes  that  such  investor  has  made  an 
investment  in  breach  of  the  domestic  laws  of the  denying 
Member  State  by  misrepresenting  its  ownership  in  those 
areas of investment which are reserved for natural or juridical 
persons of the denying Member State.  
 
3.   A juridical person is: 
 
(a)  “owned”  by  an  investor  in  accordance  with  the 
laws,  regulations  and  national  policies  of  each 
Member States;  
 
(b)  “controlled” by an investor if the investor has the 
power  to  name  a  majority  of  its  directors  or 
otherwise to legally direct its actions. 
 
 
Article 20 
Special Formalities and Disclosure of Information 
 
1.  Nothing in Articles 5 (National Treatment) or 6 (Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment) shall be construed to prevent a 
Member State from adopting or maintaining a measure that 
prescribes special formalities in connection with investments, 
including  a  requirement  that  investments  be  legally 
constituted or assume a certain legal form under the laws or 
regulations  of  the  Member  State  and  compliance  with 
  26  
registration requirements, provided that such formalities do 
not materially impair the rights afforded by a Member State 
to  investors  of  another  Member  State  and  investments 
pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding  Articles  5  (National  Treatment)  or  6 
(Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment),  a  Member  State  may 
require an investor of another Member State, or a covered 
investment,  to  provide  information  concerning  that 
investment  solely  for  informational  or  statistical  purposes.  
The Member State shall protect any confidential information 
from  any  disclosure  that  would  prejudice  legitimate 
commercial interests or particular juridical persons, public or 
private  or  the  competitive  position  of  the  investor  or  the 
covered  investment.    Nothing  in  this  paragraph  shall  be 
construed  to  prevent  a  Member  State  from  otherwise 
obtaining  or  disclosing  information  in  connection  with  the 
equitable and good faith application of its law. 
 
 
 
Article 21  
Transparency 
 
1.  In order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement, 
each Member State shall: 
 
(a)  promptly  and  at  least  annually  inform  the  AIA 
Council of any investment-related agreements or 
arrangements  which  it  has  entered  into  and 
where preferential treatment was granted;  
 
(b)  promptly  and  at  least  annually  inform  the  AIA 
Council of the introduction of any new law or of 
any  changes  to  existing  laws,  regulations  or 
administrative  guidelines,  which  significantly 
affect investments or commitments of a Member 
State under this Agreement;  
 
 
 
  27  
 
 
(c)  make  publicly  available,  all  relevant  laws, 
regulations  and  administrative  guidelines  of 
general  application  that  pertain  to,  or  affect 
investments in the territory of the Member State; 
and 
 
(d)  establish  or  designate  an  enquiry  point  where, 
upon  request  of  any  natural  person,  juridical 
person  or  any  other  Member  State,  all 
information relating to the measures required to 
be  published  or  made  available  under  sub-
paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)  may  be  promptly 
obtained. 
 
2.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  require  a  Member 
State  to  furnish  or  allow  access  to  any  confidential 
information,  including  information  concerning  particular 
investors  or  investments,  the  disclosure  of  which  would 
impede  law  enforcement,  or  otherwise  be  contrary  to  the 
public  interest,  or  which  would  prejudice  legitimate 
commercial interests of particular juridical persons, public or 
private. 
 
 
Article 22 
Entry, Temporary Stay and Work of  
Investors and Key Personnel 
 
Subject to its immigration and labour laws, regulations and 
national  policies  relating  to  the  entry,  temporary  stay  and 
authorisation to work, and consistent with its commitments 
under  AFAS,  each  Member  State  shall  grant  entry, 
temporary  stay  and  authorisation  to  work  to  investors, 
executives, managers and members of the board of directors 
of  a  juridical  person  of  any  other  Member  State,  for  the 
purpose  of  establishing,  developing,  administering  or 
advising  on  the  operation  in  the  territory  of  the  former 
Member State of an investment to which they, or a juridical 
person  of  the  other  Member  States  that  employs  such 
  28  
executives,  managers  and  members  of  the  board  of 
directors, have committed or are in the process of committing 
a substantial amount of capital or other resources. 
 
 
Article 23 
Special and Differential Treatment  
for the Newer ASEAN Member States 
 
In order to increase the benefits of this Agreement for the 
newer ASEAN Member States, and in accordance with the 
objectives and principles set out in the Preamble and Articles 
1  (Objective)  and  2  (Guiding  Principles),  Member  States 
recognise  the  importance  of  according  special  and 
differential treatment to the newer ASEAN Member States, 
through: 
 
(a)   technical assistance to strengthen their capacity 
in relation to investment policies and promotion, 
including  in  areas  such  as  human  resource 
development;  
 
(b)  commitments  in  areas  of  interest  to  the  newer 
ASEAN Member States; and 
 
(c)   recognising  that  commitments  by  each  newer 
ASEAN  Member  State  may  be  made  in 
accordance  with  its  individual  stage  of 
development. 
  
 
Article 24 
Promotion of Investment 
 
Member States shall cooperate in increasing awareness of 
ASEAN as an integrated investment area in order to increase 
foreign  investment  into  ASEAN  and  intra-ASEAN 
investments through, among others: 
 
  29  
(a)   encouraging  the  growth  and  development  of 
ASEAN small and medium enterprises and multi-
national enterprises; 
 
(b)   enhancing  industrial  complementation  and 
production  networks  among  multi-national 
enterprises in ASEAN;  
 
(c)   organising  investment  missions  that  focus  on 
developing  regional  clusters  and  production 
networks;  
 
(d)   organising  and  supporting  the  organisation  of 
various  briefings  and  seminars  on  investment 
opportunities and on investment laws, regulations 
and policies; and  
 
(e)   conducting exchanges on other issues of mutual 
concern relating to investment promotion.    
 
 
Article 25  
Facilitation of Investment 
 
Member  States  shall  endeavour  to  cooperate  in  the 
facilitation  of  investments  into  and  within  ASEAN  through, 
among others: 
 
(a)  creating the necessary environment for all forms 
of investments; 
 
(b)  streamlining  and  simplifying  procedures  for 
investment applications and approvals; 
 
(c)  promoting  dissemination  of  investment 
information,  including  investment  rules, 
regulations, policies and procedures; 
 
(d)  establishing one-stop investment centres;  
 
  30  
(e)  strengthening  databases  on  all  forms  of 
investments  for  policy  formulation  to  improve 
ASEAN’s investment environment; 
 
(f)  undertaking  consultation  with  the  business 
community on investment matters; and 
 
(g)   providing  advisory  services  to  the  business 
community of the other Member States. 
 
 
Article 26 
Enhancing ASEAN Integration 
 
Member  States  recognise  the  importance  of  fostering 
ASEAN  economic  integration  through  various  initiatives, 
including  the  Initiative  for  ASEAN  Integration,  Priority 
Integration  Sectors,  and  AEC,  all  of  which  include 
cooperation  on  investment.  In  order  to  enhance  ASEAN 
economic  integration,  Member  States  shall  endeavour  to, 
among others: 
 
(a)   harmonise,  where  possible,  investment  policies 
and  measures  to  achieve  industrial 
complementation; 
 
(b)   build and strengthen capacity of Member States, 
including  human  resource  development,  in  the 
formulation  and  improvement  of  investment 
policies to attract investment; 
 
(c)   share  information  on  investment  policies  and 
best practices, including promoted activities and 
industries; and 
 
(d)   support  investment  promotion  efforts  amongst 
Member States for mutual benefits. 
 
 
 
 
  31  
 
 
 
Article 27  
Disputes Between or Among Member States 
 
The  ASEAN  Protocol  on  Enhanced  Dispute  Settlement 
Mechanism signed in Vientiane, Lao PDR on 29 November 
2004, as amended, shall apply to the settlement of disputes 
concerning  the  interpretation  or  application  of  this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
SECTION B 
 
Investment Dispute Between  
an Investor and a Member State 
 
Article 28 
Definitions 
 
For the purpose of this Section: 
 
(a)   “Appointing Authority” means: 
 
(i)  in  the  case  of  arbitration  under  Article 
33(1)(b)  or  (c),  the  Secretary-General  of 
ICSID; 
   
(ii)  in  the  case  of  arbitration  under  Article 
33(1)(d),  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
Permanent Court of Arbitration; or 
 
(iii)  in  the  case  of  arbitration  under  Article 
33(1)(e) and (f), the Secretary-General, or 
a person holding equivalent position, of that 
arbitration centre or institution; 
 
 
  32  
 
(b)   “disputing  investor”  means  an  investor  of  a 
Member  State  that  makes  a  claim  on  its  own 
behalf  under  this  Section,  and  where  relevant, 
includes  an  investor  of  a  Member  State  that 
makes a claim on behalf of a juridical person of 
the other Member State that the investor owns or 
controls; 
 
(c)   “disputing  Member  State”  means  a  Member 
State against which a claim is made under this 
Section; 
 
(d)  “disputing parties” means a disputing  investor 
and a disputing Member State; 
 
(e)   “ICSID”  means  the  International  Centre  for 
Settlement of Investment Disputes; 
 
(f)  “ICSID  Additional  Facility  Rules”  means  the 
Rules  Governing  the  Additional  Facility  for  the 
Administration of Proceedings by the Secretariat 
of  the  International  Centre  for  Settlement  of 
Investment Disputes; 
 
(g)   “ICSID  Convention”  means  the  Convention  on 
the Settlement of Investment Disputes between 
States  and  National  of  other  States,  done  at 
Washington, D.C., United States of America on 
18 March 1965; 
 
(h)   “New  York  Convention”  means  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Recognition  and 
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at 
New York, United States of America on 10 June 
1958; 
 
(i)   “non-disputing  Member  State”  means  the 
Member State of the disputing investor; and 
 
 
  33  
 
 
 
(j)   “UNCITRAL  Arbitration  Rules”  means  the 
arbitration  rules  of  the  United  Nations 
Commission  on  International  Trade  Law, 
approved  by  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly on 15 December 1976. 
 
 
Article 29  
Scope of Coverage 
  
1.   This  Section  shall  apply  to  an  investment  dispute 
between a Member State and an investor of another Member 
State  that  has  incurred  loss  or  damage  by  reason  of  an 
alleged  breach  of  any  rights  conferred  by  this  Agreement 
with respect to the investment of that investor. 
 
2.   A  natural  person  possessing  the  nationality  or 
citizenship  of  a  Member  State  shall  not  pursue  a  claim 
against that Member State under this Section. 
  
3.  This  Section  shall  not  apply  to  claims  arising  out  of 
events  which  occurred,  or  claims  which  have  been  raised 
prior to the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
4.   Nothing  in  this  Section  shall  be  construed  so  as  to 
prevent a disputing investor from seeking administrative or 
judicial settlement available within the country of a disputing 
Member State.   
   
 
Article 30 
Conciliation 
 
1.  The  disputing  parties  may  at  any  time  agree  to 
conciliation, which may begin at any time and be terminated 
at the request of the disputing investor at any time. 
 
 
  34  
 
 
2.  If  the  disputing  parties  agree,  procedures  for 
conciliation may continue while procedures provided for in 
Article 33 (Submission of a Claim) are in progress. 
 
3.  Proceedings involving conciliation and positions taken 
by the disputing parties during these proceedings shall be 
without prejudice to the rights of either disputing parties in 
any further proceedings under this Section. 
 
 
Article 31 
Consultations 
 
1.  In  the  event  of  an  investment  dispute,  the  disputing 
parties  shall  initially  seek  to  resolve  the  dispute  through 
consultation and negotiation, which may include the use of 
non-binding, third party procedures. Such consultations shall 
be initiated by a written request for consultations delivered by 
the disputing investor to the disputing Member State. 
 
2.  Consultations  shall  commence  within  30  days  of 
receipt  by  the  disputing  Member  State  of  the  request  for 
consultations, unless the disputing parties otherwise agree. 
 
3.  With the objective of resolving an investment dispute 
through  consultations,  a  disputing  investor  shall  make  all 
reasonable  efforts  to  provide  the  disputing  Member  State, 
prior to the commencement of consultations, with information 
regarding  the  legal  and  factual  basis  for  the  investment 
dispute.  
 
 
Article 32  
Claim by an Investor of a Member State 
 
If an investment dispute has not been resolved within 180 
days of the receipt by a disputing Member State of a request 
for consultations, the disputing investor may, subject to this 
Section, submit to arbitration a claim: 
  35  
 
(a)  that the disputing Member State has breached an 
obligation  arising  under  Articles  5  (National 
Treatment),  6  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment), 8 (Senior Management and Board of 
Directors),  11  (Treatment  of  Investment),  12 
(Compensation in Cases of Strife), 13 (Transfers) 
and  14  (Expropriation  and  Compensation) 
relating to the management, conduct, operation 
or  sale  or  other  disposition  of  a  covered 
investment; and 
 
 (b)  that  the  disputing  investor  in  relation  to  its 
covered investment has incurred loss or damage 
by reason of or arising out of that breach. 
 
 
Article 33  
Submission of a Claim  
 
1.  A disputing investor may submit a claim referred to in 
Article 32 (Claim by an Investor of a Member State) at the 
choice of the disputing investor:  
 
(a)   to  the  courts  or  administrative  tribunals  of  the 
disputing  Member  State,  provided  that  such 
courts  or  tribunals  have  jurisdiction  over  such 
claims; or 
 
(b)  under the ICSID Convention and the ICSID Rules 
of  Procedure  for  Arbitration  Proceedings,14 
provided  that  both  the  disputing  Member  State 
and the non-disputing Member State are parties 
to the ICSID Convention; or 
 
                                                 
14  In the case of the Philippines, submission of a claim to ICSID and 
the ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings shall be 
subject to a written agreement between the disputing parties in the 
event that an investment dispute arises. 
 
  36  
 
 
 
 
(c)   under  the  ICSID  Additional  Facility  Rules, 
provided  that  either  of  the  disputing  Member 
State  or  the  non-disputing  Member  State  is  a 
party to the ICSID Convention; or 
 
(d)  under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or 
 
(e)   to  the  Regional  Centre  for  Arbitration  at  Kuala 
Lumpur  or  any  other  regional  centre  for 
arbitration in ASEAN; or 
  
(f)  if  the  disputing  parties  agree,  to  any  other 
arbitration institution,  
 
provided  that  resort  to  any  arbitration  rules  or  fora  under  
sub-paragraphs (a) to (f) shall exclude resort to the other. 
 
2.  A claim shall be deemed submitted to arbitration under 
this  Section  when  the  disputing  investor’s  notice  of  or 
request  for  arbitration  (“notice  of  arbitration”)  is  received 
under the applicable arbitration rules. 
 
3.  The arbitration rules applicable under paragraph 1, as 
in effect on the date the claim or claims were submitted to 
arbitration  under  this  Section,  shall  govern  the  arbitration 
except to the extent modified by this Agreement. 
 
4.  In relation to a specific investment dispute or class of 
disputes,  the  applicable  arbitration  rules  may  be  waived, 
varied  or  modified  by  written  agreement  between  the 
disputing parties.  Such rules shall be binding on the relevant 
tribunal or tribunals established under this Section, and on 
individual arbitrators serving on such tribunals. 
 
5.  The disputing investor shall provide with the notice of 
arbitration:  
 
  37  
 
 
(a)  the  name  of  the  arbitrator  that  the  disputing 
investor appoints; or 
 
(b)  the  disputing  investor’s  written  consent  for  the  
Appointing Authority to appoint that arbitrator.  
 
 
Article 34  
Conditions and Limitations on Submission of a Claim 
 
1.  The  dispute  shall  be  submitted  to  arbitration  under 
Article 33(1)(b) to (f) in accordance with this  Section, and 
shall be conditional upon: 
 
(a)  the submission of the investment dispute to such 
arbitration taking place within 3 years of the time 
at which the disputing investor became aware, or 
should  reasonably  have  become  aware,  of  a 
breach  of  an  obligation  under  this  Agreement 
causing loss or damage to the disputing investor 
or a covered investment; and 
 
(b)   the  disputing  investor  providing  written  notice, 
which shall be submitted at least 90 days before 
the claim is submitted, to the disputing Member 
State  of  its  intent  to  submit  the  investment 
dispute  to  such  arbitration  and  which  briefly 
summarises the alleged breach of the disputing 
Member  State  under  this  Agreement  (including 
the  provisions  alleged  to  have  been  breached) 
and the loss or damage allegedly caused to the 
disputing investor or a covered investment; and 
 
(c)  the notice of arbitration under Article 33(2) being 
accompanied by the disputing investor’s written 
waiver of the disputing investor’s right to initiate 
or continue any proceedings before the courts or 
administrative tribunals of the disputing Member 
State, or other dispute settlement procedures, of 
  38  
any  proceeding  with  respect  to  any  measure 
alleged  to  constitute  a  breach  referred  to  in 
Article  32  (Claim  by  an  Investor  of  a  Member 
State). 
 
2.  Notwithstanding  sub-paragraph  1(c),  the  disputing 
investor shall not be prevented from initiating or continuing 
an action that seeks interim measures of protection for the 
sole purpose of preserving the disputing investor’s rights and 
interests and does not involve the payment of damages or 
resolution of the substance of the matter in dispute, before 
the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Member 
State. 
 
3.    A Member State shall not give diplomatic protection, or 
bring an international claim, in respect of a dispute which one 
of its investors and the other Member State have consented 
to submit or have submitted to arbitration under this Section, 
unless such other Member State has failed to abide by and 
comply with the award rendered in such dispute. Diplomatic 
protection,  for  the  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  shall  not 
include informal diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose 
of facilitating a settlement of the dispute. 
 
4.  A  disputing  Member  State  shall  not  assert,  as  a 
defence, counter-claim, right of set-off or otherwise, that the 
disputing investor in relation to the covered investment has 
received  or  will  receive,  pursuant  to  an  insurance  or 
guarantee  contract,  indemnification  or  other  compensation 
for all or part of any alleged loss. 
 
 
 
 
Article 35  
Selection of Arbitrators 
 
1.  Unless  the  disputing  parties  otherwise  agree,  the 
tribunal shall comprise three arbitrators: 
 
 
  39  
 
 
 
 
(a)  one arbitrator appointed by each of the disputing 
parties; and 
 
(b)   the  third  arbitrator,  who  shall  be  the  presiding 
arbitrator,  appointed  by  agreement  of  the 
disputing parties. The third arbitrator shall be a 
national  of  a  non-Member  State  which  has 
diplomatic  relations  with  the  disputing  Member 
State and non-disputing Member State, and shall 
not  have  permanent  residence  in  either  the 
disputing  Member  State  or  non-disputing 
Member State. 
 
2.  Any  person  appointed  as  an  arbitrator  shall  have 
expertise  or  experience  in  public  international  law, 
international  trade  or  international  investment  rules.  An 
arbitrator shall be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, 
reliability,  sound  judgment  and  independence  and  shall 
conduct himself or herself on the same basis throughout the 
course of the arbitral proceedings. 
 
3.  Subject to Article 36 (Conduct of the Arbitration), if a 
tribunal  has  not  been  constituted  within  75  days  from  the 
date  that  a  claim  is  submitted  to  arbitration  under  this 
Section,  the  Appointing  Authority,  on  the  request  of  a 
disputing  party,  shall  appoint,  in  his  or  her  discretion,  the 
arbitrator or arbitrators who have not been appointed. 
 
4.   The tribunal shall reach its decisions by a majority of 
votes and its decisions shall be binding.  
 
5.  The parties to the dispute shall bear the cost of their 
respective arbitrators to the tribunal and share equally the 
cost of the presiding arbitrator and other relevant costs.  In 
all  other  respects,  the  tribunal  shall  determine  its  own 
procedures. 
 
  40  
 
 
6.  The  disputing  parties  may  establish  rules  relating  to 
expenses incurred by the tribunal, including remuneration of 
the arbitrators. 
 
7.  Where any arbitrator appointed as provided for in this 
Article resigns or becomes unable to act, a successor shall 
be  appointed  in  the  same  manner  as  prescribed  for  the 
appointment of the original arbitrator and the successor shall 
have all the powers and duties of the original arbitrator. 
 
 
Article 36 
Conduct of the Arbitration 
 
1.  Where issues relating to jurisdiction or admissibility are 
raised as preliminary objections, the tribunal shall decide the 
matter before proceeding to the merits. 
 
2.   A disputing Member State may, no later than 30 days 
after the constitution of the tribunal, file an objection that a 
claim is manifestly without merit. A disputing Member State 
may also file an objection that a claim is otherwise outside 
the jurisdiction or competence of the tribunal. The disputing 
Member  State  shall  specify  as  precisely  as  possible  the 
basis for the objection. 
 
3.   The  tribunal  shall  address  any  such  objection  as  a 
preliminary question apart from the merits of the claim. The 
disputing parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 
present their views and observations to the tribunal.  If the 
tribunal decides that the claim is manifestly without merit, or 
is otherwise not within the jurisdiction or competence of the 
tribunal, it shall render an award to that effect. 
 
4.   The  tribunal  may,  if  warranted,  award  the  prevailing 
party  reasonable  costs  and  fees  incurred  in  submitting  or 
opposing  the  objection.    In  determining  whether  such  an 
award is warranted, the tribunal shall consider whether either 
the claim or the objection was frivolous or manifestly without 
  41  
merit, and shall provide the disputing parties a reasonable 
opportunity to comment. 
 
5.  Unless  the  disputing  parties  otherwise  agree,  the 
tribunal shall determine the place of arbitration in accordance 
with the applicable arbitration rules, provided that the place 
shall be in the territory of a State that is a party to the New 
York Convention. 
 
6.  Where  an  investment  dispute  relate  to  a  measure 
which  may  be  a  taxation  measure,  the  disputing  Member 
State  and  the  non-disputing  Member  State,  including 
representatives  of  their  tax  administrations,  shall  hold 
consultations to determine whether the measure in question 
is a taxation measure. 
 
7.  Where  a  disputing  investor  claims  that  the  disputing 
Member  State  has  breached  Article  14  (Expropriation  and 
Compensation) by the adoption or enforcement of a taxation 
measure, the disputing Member State and the non-disputing 
Member  State  shall,  upon  request  from  the  disputing 
Member State, hold consultations with a view to determining 
whether  the  taxation  measure  in  question  has  an  effect 
equivalent to expropriation or nationalisation.  
 
8.  Any tribunal that may be established under this Section 
shall  accord  serious  consideration  to  the  decision  of  both 
Member States under paragraphs 6 and 7. 
 
9.   If  both  Member  States  fail  either  to  initiate  such 
consultations  referred  to  paragraphs  6  and  7,  or  to  make 
such joint decisions, within the period of 180 days from the 
date of the receipt of request for consultation referred to in 
Article 31 (Consultations), the disputing investor shall not be 
prevented  from  submitting  its  claim  to  arbitration  in 
accordance with this Section. 
 
 
 
 
 
  42  
 
 
Article 37  
Consolidation 
 
Where two or more claims have been submitted separately 
to  arbitration  under  Article  32  (Claim  by  an  Investor  of  a 
Member State) and the claims have a question of law or fact 
in common and arise out of the same or similar events or 
circumstances, all concerned disputing parties may agree to 
consolidate  those  claims  in  any  manner  they  deem 
appropriate. 
 
 
Article 38 
Expert Reports 
 
Without  prejudice  to  the  appointment  of  other  kinds  of 
experts where authorised by the applicable arbitration rules, 
the  tribunal,  at  the  request  of  the  disputing  parties,  may 
appoint one or more experts to report to it in writing on any 
factual issue concerning environmental, public health, safety 
or other scientific matters raised by  a disputing party in a 
proceeding,  subject  to  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the 
disputing parties may agree. 
 
 
Article 39 
Transparency of Arbitral Proceedings 
 
1.   Subject to paragraphs 2 and 3, the disputing Member 
State may make publicly available all awards, and decisions 
produced by the tribunal. 
   
2.   Any  of  the  disputing  parties  that  intend  to  use 
information  designated  as  confidential  information  in  a 
hearing shall so advise the tribunal.  The tribunal shall make 
appropriate  arrangements  to  protect  the  information  from 
disclosure. 
 
 
  43  
 
 
 
3.  Any information specifically designated as confidential 
that is submitted to the tribunal or the disputing parties shall 
be protected from disclosure to the public. 
 
4.   A  disputing  party  may  disclose  to  persons  directly 
connected  with  the  arbitral  proceedings  such  confidential 
information as it considers necessary for the preparation of 
its case, but it shall require that such confidential information 
is protected. 
   
5.    The tribunal shall not require a Member State to furnish 
or allow access to information the disclosure of which would 
impede law enforcement or would be contrary to the Member 
State’s law protecting Cabinet confidences, personal privacy 
or the financial affairs and accounts of individual customers 
of financial institutions, or which it determines to be contrary 
to its essential security. 
 
6.  The non-disputing Member State shall be entitled, at its 
cost, to receive from the disputing Member State a copy of 
the notice of arbitration, no later than 30 days after the date 
that  such  document  has  been  delivered  to  the  disputing 
Member State. The disputing Member State shall notify all 
other Member States of the receipt of the notice of arbitration 
within 30 days thereof. 
 
 
Article 40 
Governing Law 
 
1.  Subject  to  paragraphs  2  and  3,  when  a  claim  is 
submitted  under  Article  33  (Submission  of  a  Claim),  the 
tribunal shall decide the issues in dispute in accordance with 
this Agreement, any other applicable agreements between 
the Member States, and the applicable rules of international 
law and where applicable, any relevant domestic law of the 
disputing Member State. 
 
  44  
 
 
 
2.  The tribunal shall, on its own account or at the request 
of  a  disputing  party,  request  a  joint  interpretation  of  any 
provision of this Agreement that is in issue in a dispute. The 
Member  States  shall  submit  in  writing  any  joint  decision 
declaring their interpretation to the tribunal within 60 days of 
the delivery of the request. Without prejudice to paragraph 3, 
if the Member States fail to issue such a decision within 60 
days, any interpretation submitted by a Member State shall 
be forwarded to the disputing parties and the tribunal, which 
shall decide the issue on its own account.  
 
3.    A joint decision of the Member States, declaring their 
interpretation  of  a  provision  of  this  Agreement  shall  be 
binding on a tribunal, and any decision or award issued by a 
tribunal must be consistent with that joint decision. 
 
 
Article 41 
Awards 
 
1.  The disputing parties may agree on a resolution of the 
dispute at any time before the tribunal issues its final award.  
 
2.  Where a tribunal makes a final award against either of 
the disputing parties, the tribunal may award, separately or in 
combination, only: 
 
(a)  monetary damages and any applicable interest; 
and 
 
(b)  restitution of property, in which case the award 
shall  provide  that  the  disputing  Member  State 
may pay monetary damages and any applicable 
interest in lieu of restitution.  
 
3.    A tribunal may also award costs and attorney’s fees in 
accordance  with  this  Agreement  and  the  applicable 
arbitration rules. 
  45  
 
4.  A tribunal may not award punitive damages. 
 
5.  An  award  made  by  a  tribunal  shall  have  no  binding 
force except between the disputing parties and in respect of 
the particular case. 
 
6.    Subject  to  paragraph  7  and  the  applicable  review 
procedure  for  an  interim  award,  the  disputing  party  shall 
abide by and comply with an award without delay.15 
  
7.  The  disputing  party  may  not  seek  enforcement  of  a 
final award until: 
 
(a)  in  the  case  of  a  final  award  under  the  ICSID 
Convention: 
 
(i)  120  days  has  elapsed  from  the  date  the 
award was rendered and no disputing party 
has requested revision or annulment of the 
award; or 
 
(ii)  revision  or  annulment  proceedings  have 
been completed; 
 
(b)  in  the  case  of  a  final  award  under  the  ICSID 
Additional  Facility  Rules,  the  UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules, or the rules selected pursuant 
to Article 33(1)(e): 
 
(i)  90  days  have  elapsed  from  the  date  the 
award was rendered and no disputing party 
has commenced a proceeding to revise, set 
aside, or annul the award; or 
 
                                                 
15  The  Parties  understand  that  there  may  be  domestic  legal  and 
administrative processes that need to be observed before an award 
can be complied with. 
  
  46  
(ii)  a  court  has  dismissed  or  allowed  an 
application to revise, set aside, or annul the 
award and there is no further appeal. 
 
8.  A  claim  that  is  submitted  for  arbitration  under  this 
Section  shall  be  considered  to  arise  out  of  a  commercial 
relationship  or  transaction  for  purposes  of  Article  1  of  the 
New York Convention. 
 
9.  Each Member State shall provide for the enforcement 
of an award in its territory. 
 
 
SECTION C 
 
Article 42 
Institutional Arrangements 
  
1.   The AIA Council, as established by the AEM under the 
AIA Agreement, shall be responsible for the implementation 
of this Agreement. 
 
2.  The  ASEAN  Coordinating  Committee  on  Investment 
(“CCI”)  as  established  by  the  AIA  Council  and  comprising 
senior officials responsible for investment and other senior 
officials from relevant government agencies, shall assist the 
AIA  Council  in  the  performance  of  its  functions.  The  CCI 
shall report to the AIA Council through the Senior Economic 
Officials Meeting (“SEOM”). The ASEAN Secretariat shall be 
the secretariat for the AIA Council and the CCI. 
 
3.  The functions of the AIA Council shall be to: 
 
(a)   provide  policy  guidance  on  global  and  regional 
investment  matters  concerning  promotion, 
facilitation, protection, and liberalisation;  
 
(b)   oversee,  coordinate  and  review  the 
implementation of this Agreement;   
 
 
  47  
 
 
 
(c)   update  the  AEM  on  the  implementation  and 
operation of this Agreement;   
 
(d)   consider  and  recommend  to  the  AEM  any 
amendments to this Agreement;  
 
(e)  facilitate  the  avoidance  and  settlement  of 
disputes arising from this Agreement; 
 
(f)   supervise and coordinate the work of the CCI;  
 
(g)   adopt any necessary decisions; and  
 
(h)   carry  out any  other  functions  as the AEM  may 
agree. 
 
 
Article 43 
Consultations by Member States 
 
The  Member  States  agree  to  consult  each  other  at  the 
request  of  any  Member  State  on  any  matter  relating  to 
investments  covered  by  this  Agreement,  or  otherwise 
affecting the implementation of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 44 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall derogate from the existing 
rights and obligations of a  Member State under any other 
international agreements to which it is a party.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  48  
 
 
Article 45 
Annexes, Schedule and Future Instruments 
 
This Agreement shall include the Annexes, the Schedule and 
the contents therein, which shall form an integral part of this 
Agreement, and all future legal instruments agreed pursuant 
to this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 46 
Amendments 
 
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through 
amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the Member 
States. 
 
 
Article 47  
Transitional Arrangements Relating to the  
ASEAN IGA and the AIA Agreement  
 
1.  Upon  the  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement,  the 
ASEAN IGA and the AIA Agreement shall be terminated.  
 
2.  Notwithstanding the termination of the AIA Agreement, 
the Temporary Exclusion List and the Sensitive List to the 
AIA Agreement shall apply to the liberalisation provisions of 
the  ACIA,  mutatis  mutandis,  until  such  time  that  the 
Reservation List of ACIA comes into force.   
 
3.   With respect to investments falling within the ambit of 
this Agreement as well as under the ASEAN IGA, or within 
the  ambit  of  this  Agreement  and  the  AIA  Agreement, 
investors  of  these  investments  may  choose  to  apply  the 
provisions, but only in its entirety, of either this Agreement or 
the ASEAN IGA or the AIA Agreement, as the case may be, 
for a period of 3 years after the date of termination of the 
ASEAN IGA and the AIA Agreement.  
 
  49  
 
Article 48 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force after all Member 
States  have  notified  or,  where  necessary,  deposited 
instruments  of  ratification  with  the  Secretary-General  of 
ASEAN, which shall not take more than 180 days after the 
signing of this Agreement.  
 
2.  The Secretary-General of ASEAN shall promptly notify 
all  Member  States  of  the  notifications  or  deposit  of  each 
instrument of ratification referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 49  
Depositary 
 
This  Agreement  shall  be  deposited  with  the  Secretary-
General  of  ASEAN,  who  shall  promptly  furnish  a  certified 
copy thereof to each Member State.  
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned,  being  duly 
authorised  by  their  respective  Governments,  have  signed 
this ASEAN Comprehensive Investment Agreement. 
 
DONE at Cha-am, Thailand, this 26th Day of February in the 
Year Two Thousand and Nine, in a single original copy in the 
English language. 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam: 
 
 
 
 
LIM JOCK SENG 
Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
 
 
 
  50  
For the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce 
 
 
For the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
For the Lao People’s Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
 
For Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
TAN SRI MUHYIDDIN YASSIN 
Minister of International Trade and Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  51  
For the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning and Economic Development 
 
 
For the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
PORNTIVA NAKASAI 
Minister of Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  52  
 
 
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
 
 
 
  53  
 
ANNEX 1  
Approval in Writing 
 
Where  specific  approval  in  writing  is  required  for  covered 
investments by a Member State’s domestic laws, regulations 
and national policies, that Member State shall:  
 
(a)  inform all the other Member States through the 
ASEAN  Secretariat  of  the  contact  details  of  its 
competent authority responsible for granting such 
approval;  
 
(b)  in the case of an incomplete application, identify 
and notify the applicant in writing within 1 month 
from the date of receipt of such application of all 
the additional information that is required;  
 
(c)   inform the applicant in writing that the investment 
has been specifically approved or denied within 4 
months  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  complete 
application by the competent authority; and   
 
(d)   in the case an application is denied, inform the 
applicant in writing of the reasons for such denial.  
The  applicant  shall  have  the  opportunity  of 
submitting, at that applicant’s discretion, a new 
application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  54  
 
ANNEX 2 
Expropriation and Compensation 
 
1.  An action or a series of related actions by a Member 
State cannot constitute an expropriation unless it interferes 
with a tangible or intangible property right or property interest 
in a covered investment. 
 
2.  Article 14(1) addresses two situations:  
 
(a)  the  first  situation  is  where  an  investment  is 
nationalised  or  otherwise  directly  expropriated 
through formal transfer of title or outright seizure; 
and 
 
(b)  the second situation is where an action or series 
of  related  actions  by  a  Member  State  has  an 
effect  equivalent  to  direct  expropriation  without 
formal transfer of title or outright seizure. 
  
3.  The  determination  of  whether  an  action  or  series  of 
actions  by  a  Member  State,  in  a  specific  fact  situation, 
constitutes an expropriation of the type referred to in sub-
paragraph 2(b),  requires a case-by-case, fact-based inquiry 
that considers, among other factors: 
 
(a)  the economic impact of the government action, 
although  the  fact  that  an  action  or  series  of 
actions by a Member State has an adverse effect 
on  the  economic  value  of  an  investment, 
standing alone, does not establish that such an 
expropriation has occurred; 
  
(b)  whether  the  government  action  breaches  the 
government’s prior binding written commitment to 
the investor whether by contract, licence or other 
legal document; and   
 
 
  55  
(c)  the character of the government action, including, 
its  objective  and  whether  the  action  is 
disproportionate to  the public purpose referred to 
in Article 14(1).  
 
4.  Non-discriminatory measures of a Member State that 
are designed and applied to protect legitimate public welfare 
objectives,  such  as  public  health,  safety  and  the 
environment, do not constitute an expropriation of the type 
referred to in sub-paragraph 2(b). 
  56 