 
 
 
ASEAN TRADE IN SERVICES AGREEMENT 
 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia,  the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Republic of the Union of 
Myanmar, the  Republic  of  the Philippines, the  Republic  of 
Singapore,  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  and  the  Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam, Member States of the Association of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  hereinafter  collectively 
referred  to  as  “Member  States”  or  singularly  as  “Member 
State”; 
 
NOTING  the  ASEAN  Framework  Agreement  on  Services 
signed  by  the  ASEAN  Economic  Ministers  (AEM)  on  15 
December 1995 in Bangkok, Thailand (hereinafter referred to 
as “AFAS”) and its subsequent Implementing Protocols, the 
objectives of which are to enhance cooperation in services 
amongst  Member  States,  to  eliminate  substantially  all 
restrictions to trade in services amongst Member States, and 
to liberalise trade in services by expanding the depth and 
scope of liberalisation beyond those undertaken by Member 
States under the General Agreement on Trade in Services 
(GATS); 
 
TAKING INTO  ACCOUNT the mandate of the 7th ASEAN 
Economic Community Council held on 2 April 2012 in Phnom 
Penh, Cambodia to review and enhance the existing AFAS, to 
enhance ASEAN’s economic and sectoral integration in the 
same  vein  that  ASEAN  has  transformed  the  Framework 
Agreement on the ASEAN Investment Area and the ASEAN 
Agreement for the Promotion and Protection of Investments, 
and  the  Agreement  on  the  Common  Effective  Preferential 
Tariff  Scheme  for  the  ASEAN  Free  Trade  Area  into  the 
ASEAN Comprehensive Investment Agreement (ACIA) and 
the ASEAN Trade In Goods Agreement, respectively;  
ALSO TAKING INTO ACCOUNT the guiding principles and 
the  objectives  of  an  enhanced  ASEAN  Trade  in  Services 
Agreement (ATISA) adopted at the 44th AEM Meeting held on 
28 August 2012 in Siem Reap, Cambodia; 
 
NOTING  the  decision  of  the  48th  AEM  Meeting  held  on  3 
August  2016  in  Vientiane,  Lao  PDR  instructing  officials  to 
explore possible approaches of negative list under the ATISA, 
taking  into  account  the  mandate  of  the  ASEAN  Economic 
Community Blueprint 2025 and the on-going developments of 
the negotiations under other fora; 
 
RECOGNISING that intra-ASEAN economic cooperation will 
secure a liberal trading framework for trade in services which 
would  strengthen  and  enhance  trade  in  services  amongst 
Member States; and 
 
REITERATING our commitments to the rules and principles 
of the GATS and noting that Article V of GATS permits the 
liberalisation  of  trade  in  services  between  or  amongst  the 
parties to an economic integration agreement, 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
 
SECTION I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 1 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Agreement are to: 
 
(a)  strengthen economic linkages and provide greater 
opportunities for economic development; 
 
2 (b)  increase trade and investment in the area of services 
and create larger markets and greater economies of 
scale; 
 
(c)  reduce barriers to trade and investment in services 
and create a predictable business environment; 
 
(d)  strengthen  economic  relations  between  Member 
States through: inter alia promoting and facilitating 
utilisation of the greater opportunities provided by the 
Agreement;  promoting  regulatory  cooperation; 
developing  co-operation  in  the  field  of  human 
resource  development;  and  increasing  the 
participation  of  small  and  medium  enterprises  in 
trade and investment activities; and 
 
(e)  narrow development gaps between Member States 
to  achieve  a  more  equitable,  balanced  and 
sustainable socio-economic development. 
 
 
Article 2 
Scope 
 
1.  This Agreement applies to measures by Member States 
affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of  governmental 
authority within the territory of each Member State; 
 
(b)  laws,  regulations  or  requirements  governing  the 
procurement by governmental agencies of services 
purchased for governmental purposes and not with a 
view to commercial resale or with a view to use in the 
supply of services for commercial sale; 
 
(c)  cabotage; 
3  
(d)  subsidies and grants; and 
 
(e)  air traffic rights, however granted, or services directly 
related to the exercise of traffic rights; and 
 
(f)  air transport services except air transport ancillary 
services  as  set  out  in  Annex  on  Air  Transport 
Ancillary Services. 
 
 
Article 3 
Relation to the ASEAN Comprehensive Investment 
Agreement 
 
1.  The  ACIA  signed  on  26  February  2009  in  Cha-am, 
Thailand, and its subsequent amendments, does not apply to 
measures adopted or maintained by a Member State covered 
by this Agreement. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  1,  for  the  purpose  of 
protection  of  investment  with  respect  to  the  commercial 
presence mode of service supply  Article 11 (Treatment of 
Investment),  Article  12  (Compensation  in  Cases  of  Strife), 
Article  13  (Transfers),  Article  14  (Expropriation  and 
Compensation),  Article  15  (Subrogation)  and  Section  B 
(Investment  Dispute  between  an  Investor  and  a  Member 
State) of the ACIA shall apply,  mutatis mutandis,  to measures 
affecting the supply of a service by a service supplier of a 
Member State through commercial presence in the territory of 
another member State but only to the extent that they relate 
to an investment and obligation under the ACIA. 
 
3.  For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  Article  11  (Treatment  of 
Investment),  Article  12  (Compensation  in  Cases  of  Strife), 
Article  13  (Transfers),  Article  14  (Expropriation  and 
Compensation),  Article  15  (Subrogation)  and  Section  B 
(Investment  Dispute  between  an  Investor  and  a  Member 
State) of the ACIA, are not incorporated into this Agreement. 
4  
4.  For greater certainty, any breach of any provision in this 
Agreement  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  dispute  settlement 
mechanism under ACIA, including but not limited to Investor 
State Dispute Settlement mechanism. 
 
 
Article 4 
Relation to the ASEAN Agreement on the Movement of 
Natural Persons 
 
1.  The  ASEAN  Agreement  on  the  Movement  of  Natural 
Persons  signed  on  19  November  2012  in  Phnom  Penh, 
Cambodia (hereinafter referred to as “ASEAN Agreement on 
MNP”), shall apply to measures by a Member State affecting 
the supply of a service through presence of natural persons of 
a Member State in the territory of any other Member States, 
and shall prevail in the event of any inconsistency with this 
Agreement. 
 
2.  With regard to the provisions under Sections II and III of 
this Agreement, the ASEAN Agreement on MNP shall prevail 
and apply exclusively to measures affecting the supply of a 
service through  presence  of  natural persons  of a  Member 
State in the territory of any other Member States. 
 
 
Article 5 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the term: 
 
(a)  “a  service  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental authority” means any service which 
is  supplied  neither  on  a  commercial  basis,  nor  in 
competition with one or more service suppliers; 
 
(b)  “commercial presence” means any type of business 
or professional establishment, including through: 
5  
(i)  the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a 
juridical person; or 
 
(ii)  the creation or maintenance of a branch or a 
representative office, 
 
within the territory of a Member State for the purpose 
of supplying a service; 
 
(c)  “computing facilities” means computer servers and 
storage devices for processing or storing information 
for commercial use; 
 
(d)  “direct taxes” comprises all taxes on total income, 
on total capital or on elements of income or of capital, 
including  taxes  on  gains  from  the  alienation  of 
property,  taxes  on  estates,  inheritances  and  gifts, 
and taxes on the total amounts of wages or salaries 
paid  by  enterprises,  as  well  as  taxes  on  capital 
appreciation; 
 
(e)  “final AFAS Packages” means the tenth package of 
commitments  made  by  Member  States  under  the 
AFAS as signed by the AEM, and the last package of 
commitments signed by ASEAN Finance Ministers 
(AFM) and ASEAN Transport Ministers (ATM) prior 
to  entry  into  force  of  the  Schedules  of  Non-
Conforming-Measures pursuant to Article 11 (Non-
Conforming Measures). 
 
(f)  “GATS” means the General Agreement on Trade in 
Services; 
 
(g)  “investment”  means  investment  as  defined  under 
paragraph (c) of Article 4 (Definitions) of the ACIA, as 
may be amended; 
 
6 (h)  “investor”  means  a  natural  person  of  a  Member 
State or a juridical person of a Member State that is 
making, or has made an investment in the territory of 
any other Member State; 
 
(i)  “juridical  person”  means  any  legal  entity  duly 
constituted or otherwise organised under applicable 
law  of  a  Member  State,  whether  for  profit  or 
otherwise,  and  whether  privately-owned  or 
governmentally-owned,  including  any  corporation, 
trust, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship 
or, association; 
 
(j)  “juridical person of another Member State” means 
a juridical person which is either: 
 
(i)  constituted or otherwise organised under the law 
of that other Member State, and is engaged in 
substantive business operations in the territory 
of that Member State or any other Member State; 
or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through 
commercial presence, owned or controlled by: 
 
(1)  natural persons of that Member State; or 
 
(2)  juridical persons of that other Member State 
identified under subparagraph (i); 
 
(k)  A juridical person is: 
 
(i)  “owned” by persons of a Member State if more 
than 50 per cent of the equity interest in it is 
beneficially owned by persons of that Member 
State;  
 
(ii)  “controlled” by persons of a Member State if 
such persons have the power to name a majority 
7 of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its 
actions; and 
 
(iii)  “affiliated” with another person when it controls, 
or is controlled by, that other person; or when it 
and the other person are both controlled by the 
same person. 
 
(l)  “measure” means any measure by a Member State, 
whether  in  the  form  of  a  law,  regulation,  rule, 
procedure,  decision,  administrative  action,  or  any 
other form1; 
 
(m) “measures by a Member State” means measures 
taken by: 
 
(i)  central,  regional  or  local  governments  and 
authorities of a Member State; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of 
powers delegated by central, regional or local 
governments or authorities of a Member State; 
 
(n)  “measures  by  a  Member  State  affecting  trade  in 
services” includes measures in respect of: 
 
(i)  the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
 
(ii)  the access to and use of, in connection with the 
supply of a service, services which are required 
by  those  Member  States  to  be  offered  to  the 
public generally; and 
 
(iii)  the presence, including commercial presence, of 
persons of a Member State for the supply of a 
service in the territory of another Member State; 
 
                                      
1 “measure” shall include taxation measures to the extent covered by the GATS. 
8 (o)  “monopoly  supplier  of  a  service”  means  any 
person, public or private, which in the relevant market 
of the territory of a Member State is authorised or 
established formally or in effect by that Member State 
as the sole supplier of that service; 
 
(p)  “natural person of another Member State” means 
a natural person who under the law of that Member 
State: 
 
(i)  is a national or citizen of that Member State; or  
 
(ii)  has  the  right  of  permanent  residence  in  that 
Member State, where both that Member State 
and  the  Member  State  in  which  the  person 
supplies  services  recognise  permanent 
residents  and  accord  substantially  the  same 
treatment  to  their  respective  permanent 
residents  as  they  accord  to  their  respective 
nationals in respect of measures affecting trade 
in services. 
 
(q)  “person” means either a natural person or a juridical 
person; 
 
(r)  “sector” of a service means: 
 
(i)  with reference to a specific commitment, one or 
more,  or  all,  subsectors  of  that  service,  as 
specified in a Member State’s Schedule; 
 
(ii)  otherwise,  the  whole  of  that  service  sector, 
including all of its subsectors; 
 
(s)  “services” includes any service in any sector except 
services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of  governmental 
authority; 
 
9 (t)  “service  consumer”  means  any  person  that 
receives or uses a service; 
 
(u)  “service  of  another  Member  State”  means  a 
service which is supplied: 
 
(i)  from  or  in  the  territory  of  that  other  Member 
State, or in the case of maritime transport, by a 
vessel registered under the laws of that other 
Member  State,  or  by  a  person  of  that  other 
Member  State  which  supplies  the  service 
through the operation of a vessel and/or its use 
in whole or in part; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through 
commercial presence or through the presence of 
natural  persons,  by  a  service  supplier  of  that 
other Member State; 
 
(v)  “service supplier” means any person that supplies 
a service2; 
 
(w)  “supply  of  a  service”  includes  the  production, 
distribution, marketing, sale and delivery of a service; 
 
(x)  “trade in services” means the supply of a service: 
 
(i)  from  the  territory  of  a  Member  State  into  the 
territory  of  any  other  Member  State  (“cross-
border supply”); 
 
                                      
2 Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other forms 
of commercial presence such as a branch or a representative office, the service 
supplier  (i.e.  the  juridical  person)  shall,  nonetheless,  through  such  presence  be 
accorded the treatment provided for service suppliers under this Agreement. Such 
treatment shall be extended to the presence through which the service is supplied and 
need not be extended to any other parts of the supplier located outside the territory 
where the service is supplied. 
10 (ii)  in the territory of a Member State to the service 
consumer  of  any  other  Member  State 
(“consumption abroad”); 
 
(iii)  by a service supplier of a Member State, through 
commercial presence in the territory of any other 
Member State (“commercial presence”); 
 
(iv)  by a service supplier of a Member State, through 
presence of natural persons of a Member State 
in  the  territory  of  any  other  Member  State 
(“presence of natural persons”); and 
 
(y)  “traffic rights” means the rights for scheduled and 
non-scheduled services to operate and/or to carry 
passengers, cargo and mail for remuneration or hire 
from, to, within, or over the territory of a Member 
State,  including  points  to  be  served,  routes  to  be 
operated, types of traffic to be carried, capacity to be 
provided, tariffs to be charged and their conditions, 
and criteria for designation of airlines, including such 
criteria as number, ownership and control. 
 
 
SECTION II 
CORE OBLIGATIONS AND DISCIPLINES 
 
 
Article 6 
National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Member State shall accord to services and service 
suppliers of another Member State, in respect of all measures 
affecting the supply of services, treatment no less favourable 
11 than that it accords in like circumstances3, to its own services 
and service suppliers.4 
 
2.  A Member State may meet the requirement of paragraph 
1 by according to services and service suppliers of any other 
Member State, either formally identical treatment or formally 
different treatment to that it accords to its own like services 
and service suppliers. 
 
3.  Formally identical or formally different treatment shall be 
considered to be less favourable if it modifies the conditions 
of competition in favour of services or service suppliers of the 
Member State compared to like services or service suppliers 
of any other Member State. 
 
 
Article 7 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
1.  Each Member State shall accord to service suppliers of 
another Member State treatment no less favourable than that 
it accords, in like circumstances, to service suppliers of any 
other Member State or a non-Member State. 
 
2.  Each Member State shall accord to services supplied by 
another Member State treatment no less favourable than that 
it accords, in like circumstances, to services supplied in its 
territory by service suppliers of any other Member State or a 
non-Member State. 
 
3.  For greater certainty, in relation to services falling within 
the  scope  of  this  Agreement,  any  preferential  treatment 
                                      
3 For greater certainty, whether treatment is accorded in “like circumstances” under 
Article 6 (National Treatment) or Article 7 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) depends 
on  the  totality  of  the  circumstances,  including  whether  the  relevant  treatment 
distinguishes between services or service suppliers on the basis of legitimate public 
welfare objectives. 
4 Nothing in this Article shall be construed to require any Member State to compensate 
for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result from the foreign character of 
the relevant services or service suppliers. 
12 granted by a Member State to service suppliers of any other 
Member State or a non-Member State and to their services, 
under future agreements or arrangements to which a Member 
State is a party shall be extended on a Most-Favoured-Nation 
basis to all Member States. Agreements and arrangements 
concluded or signed before the signing of ATISA, and their 
future amendments, shall not be subject to this Article. 
 
4.  The treatment referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not 
apply to financial services, and Article 11 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment) of the Annex on Financial Services shall 
apply to financial services. 
 
5.  The provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed 
to prevent any Member State from conferring or according 
advantages  to  adjacent  countries  in  order  to  facilitate 
exchanges limited to contiguous frontier zones of services that 
are both locally produced and consumed. 
 
6.  Notwithstanding Paragraphs 1 to 5 above, two or more 
Member  States  may  conduct  negotiations  and  agree  to 
liberalise trade in services for specific sectors or sub-sectors 
(“the participating Member States”). Any extension of such 
preferential treatment to the remaining Member States on a 
most-favoured-nation basis shall be voluntary on the part of 
the participating Member States. 
 
7.  The participating Member States shall keep the remaining 
Member States informed through the ASEAN Secretariat of 
the  progress  or  result  of  the  negotiations.  Member  States 
wishing  to  join  any  on-going  negotiations  among  the 
participating Member States may do so in consultation with 
the participating Member States. 
 
8.  Any Member State which is not a party to any agreement 
reached pursuant to paragraph 6 may in due course become 
a party to such an agreement upon making offers at similar or 
acceptable levels to the participating Member States. 
 
13  
Article 8 
Market Access 
 
A Member State shall not maintain or adopt, either on the 
basis of a regional subdivision or on the basis of its entire 
territory, measures that are defined as: 
 
(a)  limitations  on  the  number  of  service  suppliers 
whether in the form of numerical quotas, monopolies, 
exclusive service suppliers or the requirements of an 
economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations on the total value of service transactions 
or  assets  in  the  form  of  numerical  quotas  or  the 
requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(c)  limitations on the total number of service operations 
or on the total quantity of service output expressed in 
terms of designated numerical units in the form of 
quotas  or  the  requirement  of  an  economic  needs 
test;5  
 
(d)  limitations on the total number of natural persons that 
may be employed in a particular service sector or that 
a  service  supplier  may  employ  and  who  are 
necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a 
specific service in the form of numerical quotas or the 
requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(e)  measures which restrict or require specific types of 
legal entity or joint venture through which a service 
supplier may supply a service; and 
 
(f)  limitations on the participation of foreign capital in 
terms  of  maximum  percentage  limit  on  foreign 
                                      
5 Subparagraph (c) does not cover measures of a Member which limit inputs for the 
supply of services. 
14 shareholding  or  the  total  value  of  individual  or 
aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
Article 9 
Local Presence 
 
A Member State shall not require a service supplier of another 
Member State to establish or maintain a representative office 
or any form of juridical person, or to be resident, in its territory 
as a condition for the cross-border supply of a service.6 
 
 
Article 10 
Senior Management and Board of Directors 
 
1.  A Member State shall not require that a juridical person of 
that Member State appoint to senior management positions, 
natural persons of any particular nationality. 
 
2.  A Member State may require that a majority of the board 
of directors of a juridical person of that Member State be of a 
particular nationality or resident in the territory of the Member 
State, provided that the requirement does not materially impair 
the  ability  of  the  investor  to  exercise  control  over  its 
investment. 
 
 
   
                                      
6 Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Member State from adopting and maintaining 
its own regulatory measures regarding the use and location of computing facilities. 
15 SECTION III 
RESERVATIONS 
 
 
Article 11 
Non-Conforming Measures 
 
1.  Article 6 (National Treatment), Article 7 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment), Article 8 (Market Access), Article 9 (Local 
Presence), and Article 10 (Senior Management and Board of 
Directors) do not apply to: 
 
(a)  any  existing  non-conforming  measure  that  is 
maintained by a Member State at: 
 
(i)  the central level of Government, as set out in its 
Schedule  of  Non-Conforming  Measures  in 
Annex I; 
 
(ii)  a regional level of government, as set out in its 
Schedule  of  Non-Conforming  Measures  in 
Annex I; or 
 
(iii)  a local government; 
 
(b)  the  continuation  or  prompt  renewal  of  any  non-
conforming measure referred to in subparagraph (a); 
or 
 
(c)  an  amendment  to  any  non-conforming  measure 
referred to in subparagraph (a) to the extent that the 
amendment does not decrease the conformity of the 
measure, as it existed immediately before the date of 
entry into force of each Member State’s Schedule of 
Non-Conforming Measures, with  Article 6  National 
Treatment),  Article  7  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment),  Article  8  (Market  Access),  Article  9 
(Local  Presence),  and  Article  10  (Senior 
Management and Board of Directors). 
16  
2.  Article 6(National Treatment), Article 7 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment), Article 8 (Market Access), Article 9 (Local 
Presence), and Article 10 (Senior Management and Board of 
Directors) do not apply to any measure that a Member State 
adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, subsectors or 
activities,  as  set  out  in  its  Schedule  of  Non-Conforming 
Measures in Annex II. 
 
3.  Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures, as set out in 
Annexes I and II, as annexed to this Agreement shall form an 
integral part thereof.  
 
4.  Member States shall commence discussions upon entry 
into force of this Agreement to apply the principle whereby an 
amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in 
subparagraph 1(a), to the extent that the amendment does not 
decrease  the  conformity  of  the  measure,  as  it  existed 
immediately before the amendment, with Article 6 (National 
Treatment),  Article  7  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment), 
Article  8  (Market  Access),  Article  9  (Local  Presence),  and 
Article 10 (Senior Management and Board of Directors). The 
outcome of the discussions shall be implemented at the entry 
into force of Schedule of Non-Conforming Measures of each 
Member State. 
 
 
Article 12 
Transition to Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures 
 
1.  Member States shall submit to the ASEAN Secretariat 
their Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures in Annex I and 
Annex  II  in  accordance  with  Article  11  (Non-Conforming 
Measures)  within  5  years  after  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement. Viet Nam shall be given additional time until 7 
years after entry into force of this Agreement. Cambodia, Lao 
PDR  and  Myanmar  shall  be  given  additional  time  until  13 
years  after  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement.  The  non-
conforming  measures  reflected  in  each  Member  State’s 
17 respective  Schedule  shall  represent  a  level  of  trade 
liberalisation that is equal to, or greater than, the level of trade 
liberalisation offered under its final AFAS Packages. 
 
2.  Within  2  years  after  Member  States  set  out  their 
Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures in Annexes I and II 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, Member States reserve 
the right to make amendments to their Schedules of Non-
Conforming Measures in Annexes I and II, to the extent that 
the amendments do not result in a decrease in the level of 
commitments  made  under  their  respective  schedules  of 
commitments under the final AFAS Packages. 
 
3.  Schedules  of  Non-Conforming  Measures  in  Annexes  I 
and II as set out by Member States shall co-exist with the 
Schedules  of  Commitments  of  Member  States  under  the 
AFAS for 7 years after entry into force of this Agreement, 9 
years after entry into force of this Agreement for Viet Nam, or 
15 years after entry into force of this Agreement for Cambodia, 
Lao PDR, and Myanmar.  Until such time, in the event of 
discrepancy of interpretation of the commitments of a Member 
State, its Schedule of Commitment under AFAS shall prevail.   
 
 
Article 13 
Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  Member  States  note  the  multilateral  negotiations 
pursuant  to  Article  X  of  the  GATS  on  the  question  of 
emergency  safeguard  measures  based  on  the  principle  of 
non-discrimination. Upon the conclusion of such multilateral 
negotiations, Member States shall conduct a review for the 
purpose  of  discussing  appropriate  amendments  to  this 
Agreement so as to incorporate the results of such multilateral 
negotiations. 
 
2.  In the event that the implementation of the commitments 
made in this Agreement causes substantial adverse impact to 
a service sector of a Member State before the conclusion of 
18 the multilateral negotiations referred to in paragraph 1, the 
affected Member State may request consultations with the 
Member State or Member States concerned. The requested 
Member State or Member States shall enter into consultations 
with the requesting Member State on the commitments that 
the requested Member State or Member States consider may 
have caused substantial adverse impact and on the possibility 
of  the  requesting  Member  State  adopting  any  measure  to 
alleviate  such  impact.  The  requesting  Member  State  shall 
notify  all  the  other  Member  States  of  its  request  for 
consultations under this paragraph. 
 
3.  Any measures taken pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be 
mutually agreed by the consulting Member States. 
 
4.  The consulting Member States shall notify the results of 
the  consultations  to  all  other  Member  States  as  soon  as 
practicable and by no later than the next meeting of the AEM 
following the conclusion of consultations. 
 
 
SECTION IV 
REGULATORY OBLIGATIONS AND DISCIPLINES 
 
 
Article 14 
Transparency 
 
1.  Member  States  recognise  that  transparent  measures 
governing trade in services are important in facilitating the 
ability of service suppliers to gain access to, and operate in, 
each  other’s  markets.  Each  Member  State  shall  promote 
regulatory transparency in trade in services. 
 
Publication 
 
2.  Each Member State shall publish promptly and, except in 
emergency situations, at the latest by the time of their entry 
into force: 
19  
(a)  all relevant measures of general application which 
pertain to or affect the operation of this Agreement; 
and 
 
(b)  all international agreements pertaining to, or affecting 
trade in services to which a Member State is a Party. 
 
3.  To the extent possible, each Member State shall make 
the  measures  and  international  agreements  of  the  kind 
referred to in paragraph 2 available on the internet and, to the 
extent provided for under its domestic legal framework, in the 
English language. 
 
4.  Where publication referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 is not 
practicable,  such  information7  shall  be  made  otherwise 
publicly available. 
 
5.  To the extent possible and provided for under its domestic 
legal  framework,  each  Member  State  shall  provide  a 
reasonable opportunity for comments by interested persons of 
the Member States on any regulation of general application 
affecting trade in services that it proposes to adopt, amend or 
repeal, before its adoption and publication. 
 
6.  To the extent possible, each Member State shall allow 
reasonable  time  between  publication  of  final  regulations 
relating  to  the  subject  matter  of  this  Agreement  and  their 
effective date. 
 
Contact Points 
 
7.  Each Member State shall designate a contact point to 
facilitate communications among the Member States on any 
matter  covered  by  this  Agreement.  Upon  the  request  of 
another Member State, the contact point shall: 
 
                                      
7 For greater certainty, Member States agree that such information may be published 
in each Member State’s chosen language. 
20 (a)  identify  the  office  or  official  responsible  for  the 
relevant matter; and 
 
(b)  assist  as  necessary  in  facilitating  communications 
with the requesting Member State with respect to that 
matter. 
 
8.  Each Member State shall respond promptly to all requests 
by any other Member State for specific information on: 
 
(a)  any measures referred to in subparagraph 2(a) or 
international agreements referred to in subparagraph 
2(b); and 
 
(b)  any  new,  or  any  changes  to  existing,  laws, 
regulations  or  administrative  guidelines  which 
significantly affect trade in services covered by the 
Member State’s commitments under this Agreement. 
 
9.  Each  Member  State  shall,  to  the  extent  possible  and 
required under its laws and regulations, respond to enquiries 
from interested persons of the Member States regarding any 
relevant measure of the Member State regarding the subject 
matter of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 15 
Disclosure of Confidential Information 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as requiring 
a  Member  State  to  provide  to  the  other  Member  States 
confidential information the disclosure of which would impede 
law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public interest 
or which would prejudice the legitimate commercial interests 
of particular juridical persons, public or private. 
 
2.  Where a Member State provides information to another 
Member  State  in  accordance  with  this  Agreement  and 
designates the information as confidential, the other Member 
21 State shall maintain the confidentiality of the information. Such 
information shall be used only for the purposes specified, and 
shall not be otherwise disclosed without the specific written 
permission of the Member State providing the information. 
 
 
Article 16 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.  Each Member State shall ensure that all measures of 
general  application  affecting  trade  in  services  are 
administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.  (a)  Each  Member  State  shall  maintain  or  institute  as 
soon as practicable judicial, arbitral or administrative 
tribunals or procedures which provide, at the request 
of an affected service supplier, for the prompt review 
of,  and  where  justified,  appropriate  remedies  for, 
administrative decisions affecting trade in services. 
Where such procedures are not independent of the 
agency  entrusted  with  the  administrative  decision 
concerned, the Member State shall ensure that the 
procedures  in  fact  provide  for  an  objective  and 
impartial review. 
 
(b)  The  provisions  of  subparagraph  (a)  shall  not  be 
construed to require a Member State to institute such 
tribunals  or  procedures  where  this  would  be 
inconsistent  with  its  constitutional  structure  or  the 
nature of its legal system. 
 
3.  Where authorisation is required by the domestic laws and 
regulations  for  the  supply  of  a  service,  the  competent 
authorities of that Member State shall: 
 
(a)  in  the  case  of  an  incomplete  application,  at  the 
request  of  the  applicant,  identify  all  the  additional 
information  that  is  required  to  complete  the 
22 application  and  provide  the  opportunity  to  remedy 
deficiencies within a reasonable timeframe; 
 
(b)  at  the  request  of  the  applicant,  provide,  without 
undue delay, information concerning the status of the 
application; 
 
(c)  within  a  reasonable  period  of  time  after  the 
submission  of  an  application  considered  complete 
under  domestic  laws  and  regulations,  inform  the 
applicant of the decision concerning the application; 
and 
 
(d)  if  an  application  is  terminated  or  denied,  to  the 
maximum  extent  possible,  inform  the  applicant  in 
writing and without delay the reasons for such action. 
The applicant will have the possibility of resubmitting, 
at its discretion, a new application. 
 
4.  Where a Member State adopts or maintains measures 
relating  to  licensing  requirements  and  procedures, 
qualification  requirements  and  procedures,  or  where  a 
Member  State  adopts  or  maintains  measures  relating  to 
technical standards as a condition for the supply of a service, 
the Member State shall ensure that: 
 
(a)  such  measures  are  based  on  objective  and 
transparent criteria; 
 
(b)  the procedures are impartial, and that the procedures 
are adequate for applicants to demonstrate whether 
they  meet  the  requirements,  where  such 
requirements exist; and 
 
(c)  the  procedures  are  reasonable  and  do  not  in 
themselves  unduly  prevent  fulfilment  of 
requirements. 
 
23 5.  (a)  A  Member  State  shall  not  apply  licensing  and 
qualification  requirements  and  technical  standards 
that  nullify  or  impair  its  obligation  under  this 
Agreement in a manner which: 
 
(i)  does  not  comply  with  the  criteria  outlined  in 
subparagraphs 4 (a), (b) or (c); and 
 
(ii)  could not reasonably have been expected of that 
Member State at the time the commitments in 
those sectors were made. 
 
(b)  In  determining  whether  a  Member  State  is  in 
conformity with the obligation under subparagraph 5 
(a), account shall be taken of international standards 
of relevant international organisations applied by that 
Member State. 
 
6.  With  respect  to  professional  services8,  each  Member 
State  shall  provide  for  adequate  procedures  to  verify  the 
competence of professionals of any other Member State. 
 
7.  Each Member State shall ensure its competent authorities 
accept copies of documents authenticated in accordance with 
its  domestic  laws  and  regulations,  in  place  of  original 
documents,  to  the  extent  domestic  laws  and  regulations 
permit. 
 
8.  If  licensing  or  qualification  requirements  include  the 
completion of an examination, each Member State shall, to the 
extent practicable, ensure that: 
 
(a)  the examination is scheduled at reasonably frequent 
intervals; and 
 
(b)  a reasonable period of time is provided to enable 
interested persons to submit an application. 
                                      
8 As classified under Business Services Sector of the document MTN.GNS/W/120 of 
the World Trade Organization. 
24  
9.  Member States shall, in accordance with their domestic 
laws  and  regulations,  endeavour  to  accept  applications  in 
electronic  format  under  the  equivalent  conditions  of 
authenticity as paper submissions. 
 
10.  Each Member State shall ensure that the authorisation 
fees9  charged  by  the  competent  authority  are  reasonable, 
transparent and do not in themselves restrict the supply of the 
relevant service. 
 
11.  If the results of the negotiations related to paragraph 4 of 
Article VI of the GATS enter into effect, this Article shall be 
amended,  as  appropriate,  after  consultations  between  the 
Member States, to bring those results into effect under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 17 
Recognition 
 
1.  A  Member  State  may  recognise  the  education  or 
experience  obtained,  requirements  met,  or  licenses  or 
certifications  granted  in  another  Member  State,  for  the 
purpose of licensing or certification of service suppliers.  Such 
recognition, which may be achieved through harmonisation or 
otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or arrangement 
with  the  Member  State  concerned  or  may  be  accorded 
autonomously. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Article shall be construed as to prevent a 
Member  State  from  according  recognition  autonomously. 
Where a Member State accords recognition autonomously to 
another Member State, it shall afford adequate opportunity for 
any  other  Member  State  to  demonstrate  that  education, 
                                      
9 Authorisation fees include licensing fees and fees relating to qualification procedures; 
they do not include fees for the use of natural resources, payments for auction, 
tendering or other non-discriminatory means of awarding concessions, or mandated 
contributions to universal service provision. 
25 experience,  licenses,  or  certifications  obtained  or 
requirements met in that other Member State's territory should 
be recognised. 
 
3.  In order to further facilitate the mobility of professionals 
and skilled labour, Member States shall encourage competent 
authorities  to  negotiate  mutual  recognition  agreements  or 
arrangements in sectors they deem appropriate. 
 
4.  A Member State shall not accord recognition in a manner 
which would constitute a means of discrimination between 
Member States in the application of its standards or criteria for 
the authorisation, licensing or certification of service suppliers 
or in a disguised restriction on trade in services. 
 
 
Article 18 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1.  Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 19 
(Restriction  to  Safeguard  the  Balance  of  Payments),  a 
Member  State  shall  not  apply  restrictions  on  international 
transfers and payments for current transactions that relate to 
the supply of services in which it has committed to allow under 
this Agreement. 
 
2.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  affect  the  rights  and 
obligations of Member States as members of the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) under the Articles of Agreement of the 
International Monetary Fund, including the use of exchange 
actions which are in conformity with the Articles of Agreement 
of the International Monetary Fund, provided that a Member 
State shall not impose restrictions on any capital transactions, 
except under Article 19 (Restriction to Safeguard the Balance 
of Payments) or at the request of the IMF. 
 
 
   
26 Article 19 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
1.  In the event of serious balance of payments and external 
financial  difficulties  or  threat  thereof,  or  if,  exceptional 
circumstances, movements of capital cause, or threaten to 
cause, serious economic or financial disturbance in a Member 
State, that Member State may adopt or maintain restrictions 
on trade in services including on payments or transfers. It is 
recognised  that  particular  pressures  on  the  balance  of 
payments  of  a  Member  State  in  the  process  of  economic 
development or economic transition may necessitate the use 
of restrictions to ensure, inter alia, the maintenance of a level 
of financial reserves adequate for the implementation of its 
programme of economic development or economic transition. 
 
2.  The restrictions referred to in paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  shall not discriminate among Member States; 
 
(b)  shall be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of 
the International Monetary Fund; 
 
(c)  shall avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, 
economic  and  financial  interests  of  any  other 
Member State; 
 
(d)  shall not exceed those necessary to deal with the 
circumstances described in paragraph 1; and 
 
(e)  shall be temporary and be phased out progressively 
as the situation specified in paragraph 1 improves. 
 
3.  In determining the incidence of such restrictions, Member 
States may give priority to the supply of services which are 
more  essential  to  their  economic  or  development 
programmes. However, such restrictions shall not be adopted 
or maintained for the purpose of protecting a particular service 
sector. 
27  
 
Article 20 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.  Each  Member  State  shall  ensure  that  any  monopoly 
supplier of a service in its territory does not, in the supply of 
the monopoly service in the relevant market, act in a manner 
inconsistent with that Member State's obligations under Article 
7  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  and  Article  11  (Non-
Conforming Measures). 
 
2.  Where a Member State's monopoly supplier competes, 
either directly or through an affiliated company, in the supply 
of a service outside the scope of its monopoly rights and which 
is subject  to that Member  State's commitments  under this 
Agreement,  the  Member  State  shall  ensure  that  such  a 
supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in its 
territory in a manner inconsistent with such commitments. 
 
3.  The AEM may, at the request of a Member State which 
has a reason to believe that a monopoly supplier of a service 
of any other Member State is acting in a manner inconsistent 
with paragraph 1 or 2, request the Member State establishing, 
maintaining or authorising such supplier to provide specific 
information concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4.  If, after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, a 
Member State grants monopoly rights regarding the supply of 
a service covered by its commitments under this Agreement, 
that Member State shall notify the AEM no later than three 
months before the intended implementation of the grant of 
monopoly rights, and Article 33 (Amendments) shall apply. 
 
5.  The provisions of this Article shall also apply to cases of 
exclusive service suppliers, where a Member State, formally 
or in effect, (a) authorises or establishes a small number of 
service suppliers and (b) substantially prevents competition 
among those service suppliers in its territory. 
28  
 
Article 21 
Business Practices 
 
1.  Member States recognise that certain business practices 
of service suppliers, other than those falling under Article 20 
(Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers), may restrain 
competition and thereby restrict trade in services. 
 
2.  Each Member State shall, at the request of any other 
Member  State,  enter  into  consultations  with  a  view  to 
eliminating practices referred to in paragraph 1. The Member 
State  addressed  shall  accord  full  and  sympathetic 
consideration to such a request and shall cooperate through 
the supply of publicly available non-confidential information of 
relevance  to  the  matter  in  question.  The  Member  State 
addressed shall also provide other information available to the 
requesting Member State, subject to its domestic law and to 
the  conclusion  of  satisfactory  agreement  concerning  the 
safeguarding of its confidentiality by the requesting Member 
State. 
 
 
Article 22 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied 
in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or 
unjustifiable  discrimination  between  countries  where  like 
conditions  prevail,  or  a  disguised  restriction  on  trade  in 
services,  nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  be  construed  to 
prevent the adoption or enforcement by any Member State of 
measures: 
 
(a)  necessary  to  protect  public  morals  or  to  maintain 
public order10; 
                                      
10 The public order exception may be invoked only where a genuine and sufficiently 
serious threat is posed to one of the fundamental interests of society. 
29  
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or 
health; 
 
(c)  necessary  to  secure  compliance  with  laws  or 
regulations  which  are  not  inconsistent  with  the 
provisions of this Agreement including those relating 
to: 
 
(i)  the  prevention  of  deceptive  and  fraudulent 
practices or to deal with the effects of a default 
on services contracts; 
 
(ii)  the  protection  of  the  privacy  of  individuals  in 
relation to the processing and dissemination of 
personal  data  and  the  protection  of 
confidentiality  of  individual  records  and 
accounts; or 
 
(iii)  safety; 
 
(d)  inconsistent  with  Article  6  (National  Treatment), 
provided that the difference in treatment is aimed at 
ensuring  the  equitable  or  effective11  imposition  or 
                                      
11 Measures that are aimed at ensuring the equitable or effective imposition or 
collection of direct taxes include measures taken by a Member State under its taxation 
system which: 
(i)  apply to non-resident service suppliers in recognition of the fact that the tax 
obligation of non-residents is determined with respect to taxable items sourced 
or located in the Member State's territory; or 
(ii)  apply to non-residents in order to ensure the imposition or collection of taxes 
in the Member State's territory; or 
(iii)  apply to non-residents or residents in order to prevent the avoidance or evasion 
of taxes, including compliance measures; or 
(iv)  apply to consumers of services supplied in or from the territory of another 
Member State in order to ensure the imposition or collection of taxes on such 
consumers derived from sources in the Member State's territory; or 
(v)  distinguish service suppliers subject to tax on worldwide taxable items from 
other service suppliers, in recognition of the difference in the nature of the tax 
base between them; or 
(vi)  determine, allocate or apportion income, profit, gain, loss, deduction or credit 
of resident persons or branches, or between related persons or branches of 
the same person, in order to safeguard the Member State's tax base. 
30 collection of direct taxes in respect of services or 
service suppliers of other Member States; 
 
(e)  inconsistent  with  Article  7  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment), provided that the difference in treatment 
is the result of an agreement on the avoidance of 
double taxation or provisions on the avoidance of 
double taxation in any other international agreement 
or arrangement by which the Member State is bound. 
 
 
Article 23 
Security Exceptions 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  to  require  any  Member  State  to  furnish  any 
information,  the  disclosure  of  which  it  considers 
contrary to its essential security interests; or 
 
(b)  to prevent any Member State from taking any action 
which it considers necessary for the protection of its 
essential security interests: 
 
(i)  relating to the supply of services as carried out 
directly  or  indirectly  for  the  purpose  of 
provisioning a military establishment; 
 
(ii)  relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or 
the materials from which they are derived; 
 
(iii)  action  taken  so  as  to  protect  critical  public 
infrastructures including communications, power 
and  water  infrastructures  from  deliberate 
                                      
Tax terms or concepts in paragraph (d) of Article 22 (General Exceptions) and in this 
footnote are determined according to tax definitions and concepts, or equivalent or 
similar definitions and concepts, under the domestic law of the Member State taking 
the measure. 
31 attempts intended to  disable  or  degrade such 
infrastructures; 
 
(iv)  taken  in  time  of  war  or  other  emergency  in 
international relations; or 
 
(c)  to prevent any Member State from taking any action 
in  pursuance  of  its  obligations  under  the  United 
Nations Charter for the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 
 
2.  The AEM shall be informed to the fullest extent possible 
of measures taken under paragraphs 1(b) and (c) and of their 
termination. 
 
 
Articles 24 
Subsidies 
 
1.  Notwithstanding Article 2 (Scope), Member States shall 
review the issue of disciplines on subsidies related to trade in 
services in light of any disciplines agreed under Article XV of 
GATS with a view to their incorporation into this Agreement. 
 
2.  A  Member  State  which  considers  that  it  is  adversely 
affected by a subsidy related to trade in services of another 
Member State may request consultations with that Member 
State on such matters. The requested Member State shall 
accord sympathetic consideration to such request. 
 
3.  The provisions of Article 34 (Dispute Settlement) shall not 
apply to any requests made or consultations held under the 
provisions of this Article or to any disputes that may arise 
between the Member States out of, or under, the provisions of 
this Article. 
 
 
   
32 SECTION V 
FACILITATION AND COOPERATION 
 
 
Article 25 
Increasing the Participation of Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises in the ASEAN Economic Community 
 
1.  Member States shall enhance the ability of Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to participate in and benefit 
from the opportunities provided by this Agreement. 
 
2.  Member  States  shall  endeavour  to  cooperate  in  the 
following fields: 
 
(a)  developing  and  promoting  capacity  building  which 
include,  but  not  limited  to,  trainings,  mentoring, 
workshops and seminars, to inform MSMEs of the 
benefits that may be available to MSMEs under this 
Agreement; 
 
 (b)  facilitating the development of programmes to assist 
MSMEs to participate and integrate effectively into 
the global supply and value chain; 
 
(c)  identifying and addressing any possible barriers that 
hinder  MSMEs’  access  to  other  Member  States 
markets; 
 
 (d)  identifying and reaching possible solutions that are 
mutually acceptable in order to improve the ability of 
MSMEs to engage in trade and investment activities; 
 
(e)  exchanging information to assist Member States in 
monitoring  and  implementing  the  Agreement  as  it 
relates to MSMEs; and 
 
(f)  other activities to be mutually agreed upon. 
 
33 3.  No  Member  State  shall  have  recourse  to  dispute 
settlement  under  Article  34  (Dispute  Settlement)  for  any 
matter arising under this Article. 
 
 
Article 26 
Technical Assistance 
 
Member States affirm the importance of technical assistance 
and sharing of knowledge and experience among Member 
States in facilitating their preparation of Schedules of Non-
Conforming  Measures  in  accordance  with  Article 11  (Non-
Conforming Measures) subject to availability of resources. 
 
 
Article 2712 
Increasing the Participation of Cambodia*, Lao PDR*, 
Myanmar* and Viet Nam 
 
1.  Taking  into  consideration  the  different  levels  of 
development of the ASEAN Member States, this Agreement 
will include appropriate forms of flexibility including provisions 
for  special  and  differential  treatment  for  Cambodia*,  Lao 
PDR*, Myanmar* and Viet Nam. 
 
2.  In this regard, the increasing participation of Cambodia*, 
Lao PDR*, Myanmar* and Viet Nam in this Agreement shall 
be facilitated through: 
 
(a)  strengthening  domestic  services  capacity  and  its 
efficiency  and  competitiveness,  inter  alia,  through 
access to technology on a commercial basis; 
 
(b)  improving their access to distribution channels and 
information networks; 
 
                                      
12 The asterisk (*) denotes Least Developed Countries as determined by criteria issued 
by ECOSOC’s Committee for Development Policy. 
34 (c)  recognising  that  commitments  of  Cambodia*,  Lao 
PDR*, Myanmar* and Viet Nam shall be made in 
accordance with its individual stage of development; 
and 
 
(d)  extending appropriate flexibility to Cambodia*, Lao 
PDR*, Myanmar* and Viet Nam in the process of 
scheduling and amending their Annexes pursuant to 
Article 12. 
 
 
Article 28 
Private Sector Engagement 
 
1.  Member States shall encourage dialogue, interaction and 
networking between their service suppliers. 
 
2.  Member  States  may  invite  representatives  of  service 
suppliers or associations to provide inputs and/or views on 
issues relating to trade in services. 
 
 
SECTION VI 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 29 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall derogate from the existing 
rights and obligations of a Member State under any other 
international agreement13 to which it is a party. 
 
 
   
                                      
13 The term “other international agreement” includes international agreements related 
to taxation. 
35 Article 30 
Annexes and Future Legal Instruments 
 
1.  This Agreement shall include the following Annexes and 
the contents therein which shall form an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a)  Annex on Financial Services; 
 
(b)  Annex on Telecommunication Services; 
 
(c)  Annex on Air Transport Ancillary Services; 
 
(d)  Annex I on Non-Conforming Measures; and 
 
(e)  Annex II on Non-Conforming Measures. 
 
2.  All  future  legal  instruments  agreed  pursuant  to  this 
Agreement shall also form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 31 
Institutional Mechanism 
 
1.  The AEM shall be responsible for the implementation of 
this Agreement. 
 
2.  The  AEM  shall  coordinate  and  oversee  the 
implementation  of  this  Agreement  across  Member  State 
States and across related ASEAN bodies. 
 
3.  The ASEAN Coordinating Committee on Services (CCS) 
and,  for  the  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  other  relevant 
government officials shall assist the AEM in implementing this 
Agreement. 
 
4.  In the fulfilment of its functions, the AEM may establish 
subsidiary  bodies  and  assign  them  to  perform/undertake/ 
36 accomplish certain tasks or delegate its responsibilities to any 
subsidiary bodies. 
 
 
Article 32 
Review 
 
With a view to furthering the objectives of this Agreement, 
Member  States  shall  undertake  a  general  review  of  its 
provisions within five years from its entry into force. Every five 
years  thereafter,  Member  States  shall  undertake  a 
subsequent  review  of  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement 
together with the Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures, 
unless otherwise agreed by the Member States. 
 
 
Article 33 
Amendments 
 
1.  The  provisions  of  this  Agreement  may  be  modified 
through amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the 
Member States. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the Annexes referred to in 
paragraph  1  of  Article  30  (Annexes  and  Future  Legal 
Instruments) may be modified through amendments endorsed 
by  AEM,  ASEAN  Finance  Ministers  and  Central  Bank 
Governors  Meeting  or  ATM  as  appropriate.  The  said 
amendments  shall  be  administratively  annexed  to  this 
Agreement and serve as an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 34 
Dispute Settlement 
 
Unless  otherwise  specified  in  this  Agreement,  the  ASEAN 
Protocol on Enhanced Dispute Settlement Mechanism signed 
on  29  November  2004  in  Vientiane,  Lao  PDR,  or  its 
37 successor,  shall  apply  to  the  settlement  of  disputes 
concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 35 
Denial of Benefits 
 
A Member State may deny the benefits of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  to the supply of any service, if it establishes that the 
service is supplied from or in the territory of a non-
Member State; 
 
(b)  in  the  case  of  the  supply  of  a  maritime  transport 
service, if it establishes that the service is supplied: 
 
(i)  by a vessel registered under the laws of a non-
Member State, and 
 
(ii)  by  a  person  of  a  non-Member  State  which 
operates and/or uses the vessel in whole or in 
part; 
 
(c)  to a service supplier that is a juridical person, if it 
establishes that it is not a service supplier of another 
Member State. 
 
 
Article 36 
Transitional Arrangement Relating to the AFAS 
 
1.  In accordance with Article 12 (Transition to Schedules of 
Non-Conforming Measures), the AFAS and its schedules of 
commitments made by Member States under the AFAS as 
signed  by  the  AEM,  AFM  and  ATM,  will  remain  in  force, 
mutatis mutandis, until 7 years after entry into force of this 
Agreement,  until  9  years  after  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement for Viet Nam, or until 15 years after entry into force 
of this Agreement for Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar. 
38  
2.  The AFAS and its Protocols shall be superseded by this 
Agreement  and  its  Annexes,  upon  the  completion  of  the 
respective periods mentioned in paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 37 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force one hundred and 
eighty (180) days after the signing of this Agreement. 
 
2.  Member States shall complete their internal procedures 
for the entry into force of this Agreement. Each Member State 
shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the 
entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement,  notify  the  Secretary-
General of ASEAN in writing. 
 
3.  Where a Member State is unable to notify the completion 
of its internal procedures within one hundred and eighty (180) 
days after the date of signing, the rights and obligations of that 
Member State under this Agreement shall commence on the 
date on which the Member State notifies the completion of its 
internal procedures. 
 
4.  The Secretary-General of ASEAN shall promptly notify all 
Member  States  of  the  notifications  or  deposit  of  each 
instrument  of  ratification referred  to  in  paragraph  2  of this 
Article. 
 
 
Article 38 
Depositary 
 
This Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General 
of ASEAN who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof 
to each Member State. 
 
 
39 IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned,  being  duly 
authorised  thereto  by  their  respective  Governments,  have 
signed the ASEAN Trade in Services Agreement. 
 
DONE at Manila, the Philippines, this Seventh day of October 
in the Year Two Thousand and Twenty in a single original copy 
in the English Language. 
 
 
 
 
 
For Brunei Darussalam: 
 
 
 
 
DATO DR. AMIN LIEW ABDULLAH 
Minister at the Prime Minister’s Office and 
Minister of Finance and Economy II 
 
 
 
For the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
PAN SORASAK 
Minister of Commerce 
 
   
40  
For the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
ENGGARTIASTO LUKITA 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Lao People’s Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
 
KHEMMANI PHOLSENA 
Minister of Industry and Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
For Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
DARELL LEIKING 
Minister of International Trade and Industry 
   
41  
For the Republic of the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
THAUNG TUN 
Union Minister for Investment and Foreign Economic Relations 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
RAMON M. LOPEZ 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
CHAN CHUN SING 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
   
42  
For the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
CHUTIMA BUNYAPRAPHASARA 
Deputy Minister of Commerce 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
TRAN TUAN ANH 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
43 