 
IMPLEMENTING  ARRANGEMENT  FOR  THE  ASEAN-
AUSTRALIA-NEW  ZEALAND  FREE  TRADE  AREA 
(AANZFTA)  ECONOMIC  CO-OPERATION  WORK 
PROGRAMME PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 12 (ECONOMIC 
CO-OPERATION) OF THE AGREEMENT ESTABLISHING 
THE ASEAN-AUSTRALIA-NEW ZEALAND FREE TRADE 
AREA 
 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia  (Cambodia),  the  Republic  of  Indonesia 
(Indonesia),  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  (Lao 
PDR),  Malaysia,  the  Union  of  Myanmar  (Myanmar),  the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines  (Philippines),  the  Republic  of 
Singapore (Singapore), the Kingdom of Thailand (Thailand) 
and  the  Socialist  Republic  of  Viet  Nam  (Viet  Nam), 
collectively,  the  Member  States  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations, Australia and New Zealand; 
 
ACKNOWLEDGING  the  breadth  of  their  ongoing  co-
operation  relationship,  encompassing  political  and  security 
co-operation,  socio-cultural  co-operation,  development  co-
operation and economic co-operation; 
 
HAVE  MUTUALLY  REACHED  THE  FOLLOWING 
UNDERSTANDINGS: 
 
1.  The  ASEAN-Australia-New  Zealand  Free  Trade  Area 
(AANZFTA)  Economic  Co-operation  Work  Programme 
developed  for  the  purpose  of  Chapter  12  (Economic  Co-
operation)  of  the  Agreement  Establishing  the  ASEAN-
Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area is attached to this 
document.  
2.  At any time the implementing and participating Parties 
for a particular activity may jointly modify a Work Programme 
component subject to available resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNED at Cha-am, Phetchaburi, Thailand, this 27th day of 
February,  two  thousand  and  nine,  in  three  copies  in  the 
English language. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of     For the Government of 
Brunei Darussalam:      Australia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of     For the Government of  
the Kingdom of Cambodia:    New Zealand: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
  2 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: 
 
 
  3Agreement Establishing the ASEAN-
Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area 
(AANZFTA) Economic Co-operation 
Work Programme  
 
 
  4This document contains: 
 
Introduction  6 
Component 1 – Rules of Origin and other Aspects of Implementation of 
Tariff Commitments  8 
Component 2 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures  9 
Component 3 –Standards, Technical Regulations and Conformity 
Assessment Procedures (STRACAP)  11 
Component 4 – Services  12 
Component 5 - Investment  13 
Component 6 - Intellectual Property  15 
Component 7 – Sectoral Integration  16 
Component 8 – Customs  17 
  5Introduction 
 
This document is the Economic Co-operation Work Programme (ECWP) for 
the AANZFTA. It draws on proposals submitted to the Working Group on 
Economic Co-operation (WGEC) and information and concepts provided by 
AANZFTA Parties (the Parties). It outlines the assistance that will be given to 
the Parties to implement AANZFTA in eight components linked to different 
aspects of the AANZFTA. It provides a synopsis for each component which 
identifies  objectives  and  relevance  to  the  AANZFTA,  gives  a  broad 
description of activities that will be implemented and outlines arrangements 
for their implementation.  The ECWP provides flexibility for emerging and 
changing priorities to be addressed through economic co-operation, as such 
priorities are identified during the implementation of the AANZFTA. 
 
The ECWP is to be implemented, through annual programmes, over five years 
from the date of the AANZFTA’s entry into force. The cost of implementing 
the ECWP (implementation funds) is estimated at up to AUD20-25 million. 
 
Two elements important for the implementation of the ECWP and effective 
implementation of the AANZFTA are support for the ASEAN Secretariat’s 
role in the implementation of AANZFTA and the management structure for 
the ECWP.  
 
Support for the ASEAN Secretariat’s role in the 
implementation of the AANZFTA 
 
The goal is to support the ASEAN Secretariat (ASEC) servicing the FTA Joint 
Committee and to assist Parties in the implementation of the AANZFTA. A 
capacity will be established in ASEC to assist the FTA Joint Committee and 
the Parties to implement the AANZFTA and it will undertake the following 
functions: 
 
(cid:131)  provide information to the FTA Joint Committee to assist in decision making 
and implementing decisions; 
(cid:131)  assist  Parties  to  track  AANZFTA  implementation  progress  against  the 
AANZFTA objectives, and identify successes to build upon and problems to 
be addressed;  
(cid:131)  support  capacity  development  of  national  institutions  of  Parties  to 
operationalise the AANZFTA and address regional implementation gaps;  
(cid:131)  assist development of  regional mechanisms for effective collaboration and co-
operation in the execution of the provisions of the AANZFTA; and  
(cid:131)  support Parties in the promotion of the AANZFTA to key audiences including 
business and industry including through the development of communications 
strategies. 
  6 
Management structure 
 
Critical  to  the  implementation  and  effectiveness  of  the  ECWP  is  the 
development  of  a  management  and  implementation  structure.    The  figure 
below  illustrates  the  relationship  between  the  management  and 
implementation  structure  within  ASEC  and  the  FTA  Joint  Committee,  its 
subsidiary bodies, national focal points, and contributing and implementing 
Parties.  The capacity established in ASEC will develop annual programmes 
that will be submitted to the FTA Joint Committee for approval.1  Annual 
programmes will be based on the ECWP and developed in consultation with 
the Parties. This consultation will be through ASEC and relevant subsidiary 
bodies of the FTA Joint Committee and/or national focal points as appropriate.   
 
Management structure 
  
FTA Joint Committee  
(oversight for AANZFTA) 
Govern   Reportin g
Con tributing parties      ASEC  FTA J oint Committee 
(multiple parties and      Manage ECWP and assist   Consultation  subsidiary bodie s /
range of contributing  parties with AANZFTA  national focal 
modalities)   implementation  points   
 
      
 
    Recipient parties 
A ll 12 parties may be recipients with any one 
component having at least two recipients 
                                                 
1 Prior to the first meeting of the FTA Joint Committee, approval for the annual program may 
be obtained by the agreement of representatives of each Party. 
  7Component 1 – Rules of Origin and other Aspects of 
Implementation of Tariff Commitments 
 
Objective 
 
To  facilitate  effective  utilisation  of  the  AANZFTA  commitments  through 
efficient  and  transparent  administration  of  Rules  of  Origin  (ROO) 
requirements and other aspects of implementation of tariff commitments. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA 
 
Efficient and transparent implementation of ROO requirements is essential to 
any free trade agreement, since it must achieve an appropriate balance of 
facilitating trade and ensuring that benefits of tariff commitments are obtained.  
Implementation of ROO for AANZFTA may involve considerable challenges 
for  ASEAN  agencies  responsible  for  embedding  them  in  legislation  and 
regulation, for certifying compliance and ensuring that eligible goods receive 
the  benefit  of  tariff  preferences.    Ready  availability  to  business  of  the 
substantive requirements of ROO and the associated administrative procedures 
will be necessary if full advantage is to be taken of AANZFTA commitments.  
Other elements of implementing tariff commitments – such as transposition 
from  HS2002  to  HS2007  –  will  also  be  central  to  implementation  of 
AANZFTA. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
A comprehensive programme of support will be established to achieve the 
following: 
(cid:131) educate the private sector to enable compliance with AANZFTA requirements 
to generate trade and co-operation; 
(cid:131) develop procedures to ensure the smooth implementation of the ROO; 
(cid:131) develop  procedures  to  facilitate  the  use  and  authenticity  of  Certificates  of 
Origin; 
(cid:131) ensure the timely transposition of tariff schedules from HS2002 to HS2007. 
 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
Experts from within Australia and New Zealand will be relied upon to conduct 
the requisite workshops, seminars and other training procedures as well as 
developing other capacity building activity required by the proposal.  While all 
Parties  will  benefit  from  co-operation  on  ROO  and  on  other  aspects  of 
implementing tariff commitments, it is expected that ASEAN Member States 
currently with less developed systems will gain major benefit. 
  8Component 2 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
Objective 
 
To  support  implementation  of  the  AANZFTA  chapter  on  Sanitary  and 
Phytosanitary (SPS) Measures, by helping to: build the capacity of agencies 
responsible for implementation of SPS policies and procedures; build business 
awareness of the application of SPS measures consistent with the principles in 
the SPS chapter; and support strengthened co-operation between authorities 
responsible for dealing with the matters covered by that chapter. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA 
 
This component supports implementation of the AANZFTA chapter on SPS 
Measures, which aims to:  facilitate trade between Parties while protecting 
human, animal or plant health in the territory of each Party; provide greater 
transparency and understanding in the application of each Party’s regulations 
and procedures relating to SPS measures; strengthen co-operation between the 
competent authorities of the Parties for matters covered by the SPS chapter; 
and    enhance  practical  implementation  of  the  principles  and  disciplines 
contained within the WTO SPS Agreement. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
The component will involve two broad streams of activities. One stream will 
be devoted to building capacity in ASEAN Parties with respect to various 
functions  associated  with  efficient  implementation  of  SPS  measures  to 
facilitate  trade  while  pursuing  science  based  bio-security  objectives.  This 
stream  could  cover  co-operation  with  regard  to  WTO  SPS  Agreement 
obligations for notification (SPS National Notification Authority and National 
Enquiry  Point),  emergency  response  management  for  plant  pests,  SPS 
awareness training and pest diagnostic training and capacity building.  
 
The other stream will be aimed at providing priority to Import Health Standard 
(IHS) Assessments for ASEAN agricultural exports into New Zealand. This 
will involve adding resources to Biosecurity NZ to create a priority line for 
processing  IHS  applications  from  ASEAN  Parties  to  increase  the  annual 
volume of such assessments.  There will also be a focus in this stream on 
improving the ability of ASEAN Parties to provide necessary information to 
expedite IHS risk assessments.  
 
Both  streams  will  require  further  design  and  interaction  between  relevant 
authorities in the Parties to determine the scope and timing of activities, some 
of  which  will  build  on  existing  or  prospective  regional  and  bilateral  co-
operation programmes. 
  9 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
Australia will lead the first stream, and New Zealand the second.  Given the 
policy related nature of much of this work, and the fact that most relevant 
expertise to deliver co-operation activities lies within government agencies 
responsible for SPS measures, activities will be conducted as government-to-
government  co-operation,  led  by  the  respective  agencies  providing  the 
expertise. All ASEAN Parties will potentially benefit from this component, 
with stream one focusing on ASEAN Parties with less developed capacity. 
 
  10Component 3 –Standards, Technical Regulations and 
Conformity Assessment Procedures (STRACAP) 
 
Objective 
 
This  component  will  support  joint  efforts  in  the  fields  of  standards,  technical 
regulations  and  conformity  assessment  procedures,    assist  in  promoting  mutual 
understanding  of  each  Party’s  STRACAP  measures,  and  strengthen  information 
exchange and co-operation among the Parties. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA 
 
This component supports the AANZFTA chapter on STRACAP which aims to 
facilitate trade in goods between the Parties by: ensuring that STRACAP 
measures  do  not  create  unnecessary  obstacles  to  trade,  promoting  mutual 
understanding  of  each  Party’s  STRACAP  measures,  strengthening  
information exchange and co-operation between the Parties and providing a 
framework  to  implement  the  supporting  mechanisms  to  realise  these 
objectives.  These activities should build on the work of international and 
regional standards and conformity assessment bodies.  The establishment of 
strong regional information exchange and co-operation will work to facilitate 
trade within the region.  
 
Indicative Activities 
 
A programme of support will be established to help achieve the following: 
 
(cid:131)  enhance the transparent process of STRACAP through information exchanges 
between the Parties; 
(cid:131)  facilitate co-operation between the Parties in the areas of standards, technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures; 
(cid:131)  provide an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the regulatory and 
certification  infrastructures  of  selected  countries  and  identify  areas  for 
allocation of further resources. 
 
This support programme will require further detailed design.   
 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
Experts from Australia and New Zealand, and in some cases ASEAN Parties, 
will be relied upon to conduct the requisite workshops, seminars and other 
training  procedures  as  well  as  developing  other  capacity  building  activity 
required.  While all Parties will benefit from co-operation on STRACAP, it is 
expected that ASEAN Parties currently with less developed systems will gain 
major benefit. 
  11Component 4 – Services 
 
Objective 
 
To facilitate increased cross-border flows of services among the Parties, by 
assisting them to adapt regulations affecting services trade and to build on the 
reductions in barriers to trade in services embodied in the AANZFTA. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA
 
 
One of the aims of the AANZFTA services chapter is to facilitate greater 
participation in the service sectors of the Parties. Commitments made by the 
Parties under the services chapter will reduce constraints on market access for 
service providers and investors. However, realising the potential created by the 
AANZFTA may involve streamlining or harmonising regulatory arrangements 
affecting service provision, or strengthening institutions that support a freer 
flow of services among the Parties. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
This component will assist in addressing these issues through two streams of 
co-operation. One stream will assist in the facilitation of movement of natural 
persons  and  increased  education  sector  investment  among  the  Parties  by 
conducting pilot projects on national qualification frameworks and associated 
recognition tools. The other stream will provide support to strengthen agencies 
in  Cambodia,  Lao  PDR  and  Myanmar  responsible  for  handling  trade  in 
services  issues.  This  will  build  on  experience  gathered  in  negotiating 
commitment schedules for the AANZFTA, and build understanding of trade in 
services concepts and assist agencies to document and assess effects of laws 
and regulations affecting trade in services. 
 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
The Philippines and Australia will direct project activities regarding education 
qualifications with other ASEAN Parties that wish to participate. Co-operation 
under the second stream may be delivered by a mix of linkage activities 
involving government agencies from Australia, New Zealand and ASEAN 
Parties, and consultancy inputs.  
  12Component 5 - Investment 
 
Objective 
 
To facilitate the flow of investment across the Parties, by deepening and 
broadening    linkages  and  assisting  Parties  to  address  impediments  to 
expanding  investment  in  response  to  the  opportunities  created  by  the 
AANZFTA. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA
 
 
The  Parties  will  benefit  from  implementation  of  the  AANZFTA  through 
investment.  Inter-regional investment should expand in response to reductions 
in cross border barriers, and domestic and foreign investment should expand to 
take  advantage  of  opportunities  created  by  the  AANZFTA.  Implementing 
provisions on investment and commitments on commercial presence in the 
chapter on services will make important contributions to facilitating greater 
cross-border investment among the Parties. To fully realise the benefits of 
these commitments, efforts may need to be made to make potential investors 
aware of new opportunities arising, and identify and address impediments to 
investment  that  the  AANZFTA  does  not  address.  This  may  involve  co-
operation aimed at facilitating inward investment and analysing the impact of 
the regulatory environment and developing strategies for further improving the 
investment climate. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
This component will provide a vehicle for the Parties to assess the overall 
climate for investment and identify areas of concern for consideration by the 
FTA Joint Committee and relevant domestic agencies. It will also apprise 
potential  investors  of  opportunities  arising  from  the  AANZFTA  and  will 
initiate public-private policy dialogue by providing a forum for informing 
policy  makers  of  issues  of  concern  to  investors,  including  aspects  of  the 
regulatory environment for investment. This will be initiated by combining 
ECWP-supported meetings with existing investment conferences and building 
on  these  by  promoting  a  range  of  workshops  on  specific  investment 
opportunities and issues, including AANZFTA commitments. Workshops and 
meetings  may  target  ASEAN  Priority  Integration  Sectors,  and  provide  an 
opportunity for the ASEAN Lead Coordinating Countries to promote the work 
being done to create opportunities in the sectors they are responsible for. 
These interactions  may be supported by the preparation of information or 
issues papers helping to focus attention on key issues, and by establishing 
website reference sources to support investors. 
  13 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
Modes of assistance will include support to a working group of experts of the 
Parties to conduct research into the environment for investment within and 
between the Parties and to formulate recommendations for consideration by 
the  FTA  Joint  Committee  and  relevant  domestic  agencies  in  participating 
Parties. It is noted that such support will particularly benefit newer ASEAN 
member states. It may also involve conference sessions, workshops, seminars 
and training events.  
  14Component 6 - Intellectual Property 
 
Objective 
 
To provide comprehensive support for the development of sound and balanced 
Intellectual Property (IP) systems in the AANZFTA region. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA 
 
The development of strong IP regimes throughout the ASEAN region is a 
sound  underpinning  for  international  trade  to  be  promoted  through  the 
AANZFTA.  If IP rights are consistently protected, investors and traders will 
have increased confidence to operate within the region. A comprehensive 
programme of support will be put into place to assist ASEAN Parties to: 
 
(cid:131)  Improve capacity to develop sound and balanced IP frameworks and systems; 
(cid:131)  Facilitate business use of IP systems through the region for the purpose of 
economic integration; 
(cid:131)  Improve capacity to enforce IP rights; and 
(cid:131)  Improve public and business awareness of the benefits of sound and balanced 
IP regimes. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
While this support programme will require further detailed design and cost 
analysis, it is envisaged as being delivered through four major projects, each 
addressing one of the above aims. This component assists in the development 
of  capacity  to  develop  systems  for  IP  in  the  region  including  those  for 
enforcement. It also assists in the development of systems helping businesses 
to  participate  including  improvement  in  awareness  of  the  benefits  of  IP 
systems. This component will recognise the different current capabilities and 
starting points for activities of the Parties, notably newer ASEAN member 
states. 
 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
The form of assistance may include direct training for IP examiners and other 
government officials, IP judges, patent attorneys, academia and the business 
community. It may also include study visits, policy discussions and seminars. 
While all Parties will benefit from co-operation on IP, it is expected that 
ASEAN Parties currently with less developed IP systems will gain major 
benefit.  
  15Component 7 – Sectoral Integration 
 
Objective 
 
To  provide  for  technical  assistance  and  training  that  helps  the  Parties  to 
address residual impediments to integration by working on the problems faced 
by particular sectors. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA
 
 
A programme of activities will be put into place to work with specific sectors 
to identify and propose ways of dealing with constraints to realising the trade 
and  investment  benefits  that  should  flow  from  implementation  of  the 
AANZFTA.  Given  the  limited  resources  likely  to  be  available  to  finance 
ECWP activities it would not be effective to use the programme to deliver 
direct assistance to firms to pursue trade and investment opportunities or to 
improve their competitiveness. However working with stakeholders in a sector 
to identify regulatory, institutional or informational constraints could provide 
invaluable information for policy makers. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
One  initial  sector  has  been  identified  for  activities  in  this  component. 
Activities will be constructed in the dairy industry that draw upon and support 
the AANZFTA. This will involve assessment of ASEAN regional concerns on 
liberalisation of trade in dairy products.  
 
Countries involved and implementation arrangements 
 
This activity will be managed by New Zealand in conjunction with target 
countries to be confirmed. 
  16Component 8 – Customs 
 
Objective 
 
To support Customs co-operation activities related to implementation of the 
AANZFTA. 
 
Relevance to the AANZFTA 
 
This  component  supports  the  AANZFTA  chapter  on  customs  procedures 
which  specifically  aims  to  promote  co-operation  among  Customs 
administrations in the Parties.  This is relevant not only to the specific matters 
covered by the chapter, which also aims to ensure predictability, consistency 
and transparency in the application of Customs laws and regulations; promote 
efficient, economical Customs administration and expeditious clearance of 
goods; and simplify Customs procedures, it is also relevant to other chapters, 
for example on Rules of Origin. 
 
Indicative Activities 
 
No specific activities are proposed under this component.  Co-operation would 
need  to  build  on  the  existing  extensive  arrangements  for  regional  and 
international co-operation on Customs matters.  
 
 
  17