 
 
CHAPTER 12 
 
ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION 
 
Article 1 
Scope and Objectives 
 
1.  The  Parties  reaffirm  the  importance  of  ongoing 
economic co-operation initiatives between ASEAN, Australia 
and New Zealand, and agree to complement their existing 
economic  partnership  in  areas  where  the  Parties  have 
mutual interests, taking into account the different levels of 
development of the Parties. 
 
2.  The Parties acknowledge the provisions to encourage 
and  facilitate  economic  co-operation  included  in  various 
Chapters of this Agreement. 
 
3.  Economic  co-operation  under  this  Chapter  shall 
support implementation of this Agreement through economic 
co-operation activities which are trade or investment related 
as specified in the Work Programme. 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  implementing  Party  or  implementing  Parties 
means,  for  each  component  of  the  Work 
Programme,  the  Party  or  Parties  primarily 
responsible  for  the  implementation  of  that 
component; and 
 
(b)  Work  Programme  means  the  programme  of 
economic co-operation activities, organised into 
components, mutually determined by the Parties 
prior to the entry into force of this Agreement. 
  179 
 
Article 3 
Resources 
 
1.  Recognising the development gaps among the ASEAN 
Member  States  and  among  the  Parties,  the  Parties  shall 
contribute appropriately to the implementation of the Work 
Programme. 
 
2.  In determining the appropriate level of contribution to 
the Work Programme, the Parties shall take into account: 
 
(a)  the different levels of development and capacity 
of Parties; 
 
(b)  any in-kind contributions able to be made to Work 
Programme components by Parties; and 
 
(c)  that  the  appropriate  level  of  contribution 
enhances the relevance and sustainability of co-
operation,  strengthens  partnerships  between 
Parties and builds Parties’ shared commitment to 
the  effective  implementation  and  oversight  of 
Work Programme components. 
 
Article 4 
Economic Co-operation Work Programme 
 
1.  Each Work Programme component shall: 
 
(a)  be trade or investment related and support this 
Agreement’s implementation; 
 
(b)  be specified in the Work Programme; 
 
(c)  involve a minimum of two ASEAN Member States, 
Australia and/or New Zealand; 
 
  180 
(d)  address the mutual priorities of the participating 
Parties; and 
 
(e)  where  possible,  avoid  duplicating  existing 
economic co-operation activities. 
 
2.  The description of each Work Programme component 
shall specify the details necessary to provide clarity to the 
Parties regarding the scope and purpose of such component. 
 
Article 5 
Focal Points for Implementation 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate a focal point for all matters 
relating to the implementation of the Work Programme and 
shall keep all Parties updated on its focal point’s details. 
 
2.  The  focal  points  shall  be  responsible  for  overseeing 
and reporting on the implementation of the Work Programme 
in accordance with Article 6 (Implementation and Evaluation 
of Work Programme Components) and Article 7 (Review of 
Work Programme), and for responding to inquiries from any 
Party regarding the Work Programme. 
 
Article 6 
Implementation and Evaluation of Work Programme 
Components 
 
1.  Prior to the commencement of each Work Programme 
component,  the  implementing  Party  or  Parties,  in 
consultation with relevant participating Parties, shall develop 
an implementation plan for that Work Programme component 
and provide that plan to each Party. 
 
2.  The  implementing  Party  or  Parties  for  a  Work 
Programme  component  may  use  existing  mechanisms  for 
the implementation of that component. 
 
  181 
3.  Until the completion of a Work Programme component, 
the implementing Party or Parties shall regularly monitor and 
evaluate  the  relevant  component  and  provide  periodic 
reports to each Party including a final component completion 
report. 
 
Article 7 
Review of Work Programme 
 
At  the  direction  of  the  FTA  Joint  Committee,  the  Work 
Programme  shall  be  reviewed  to  assess  its  overall 
effectiveness and recommendations may be made. The FTA 
Joint  Committee  may  make  modifications  to  the  Work 
Programme  taking  into  account  the  review  and  available 
resources. 
 
Article 8 
Non-Application of Chapter 17 (Consultations and 
Dispute Settlement) 
 
Chapter 17 (Consultations and Dispute Settlement) shall not 
apply to any matter arising under this Chapter. 
  182