 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 4 
 
ANNEX 2 (PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES)   ANNEX 2 
PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES 
 
Headnote to the Annex 
 
 
1.  For the purpose of interpreting the Product Specific Rules set forth in this Annex: 
 
  (a)  chapter means the first two digits  of the  tariff classification number under the HS Code; 
 
  (b)  heading means the first four digits of the tariff classification number under the HS Code; and 
 
  (c)  sub-heading means the first six digits of the tariff classification number under the HS Code. 
 
2.  This Annex is set out as follows: 
 
  (a)  Column 1 – Tariff Heading (4-digit) 
  (b)  Column 2 – Tariff Sub-Heading (6-digit) 
  (c)  Column 3 – Product Description 
  (d)  Column 4 – Applicable Product-Specific Rule (s) of Origin (Origin Conferring Criteria). 
 
3.  Where a tariff heading or sub-heading is subject to alternative Product Specific Rules, it shall be sufficient to comply with 
one of the rules. 
 
4.  Where the Product Specific Rule requires only a regional value content, the final process of production must be performed 
within a Party.  
5.  A requirement of a change in tariff classification applies only to non-originating materials. 
 
6.  Where the change in tariff classification rule expressly excludes a change from other tariff classifications, the exclusion 
applies only to non-originating materials.  
 
7.  For the purposes of column 4 of this Annex: 
 
  “WO” means that the good must be wholly produced or obtained in accordance with Article 2.1(a) (Originating Goods) of 
Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin); 
 
  “RVC(XX)” means that the good must have a regional value content of not less than XX per cent as calculated under Article 
5 (Calculation of Regional Value Content) of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin); 
 
  “CC” means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good have undergone a change in tariff 
classification at the 2-digit level; 
 
  “CTH” means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good have undergone a change in tariff 
classification at the 4-digit level; 
 
  “CTSH” means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good have undergone a change in tariff 
classification at the 6-digit level. 
 
8.  Chapter notes within this Annex apply to all headings or subheadings within the indicated chapter unless there exists a 
specific exclusion. 
    
   APPENDIX ON THE INDICATIVE LIST OF TEXTILE FINISHING PROCESSES 
 
  antibacterial finish; 
  antisoil finish; 
  antistatic agent; 
  backtanning; 
  baking/thermofixation; 
  baulk finish; 
  beating (finishing); 
  beetled finish; 
  biopolishing; 
  bleaching; 
  blown finish; 
  boiling off/degumming; 
  bottoming; 
  brushing; 
  causticizing; 
  clear finish; 
  compressive shrinking; 
  conditioning; 
  crabbing; 
  cramping;   crease-resist finish; 
  crêping; 
  curing/flash-curing/moist curing; 
  cuttling; 
  decatizing/decating; 
  delustring; 
  desizing; 
  dressing (lace); 
  dry beating; 
  embossing; 
  embrittled; 
  emerizing; 
  filling; 
  fixing; 
  flame retardant treatment; 
  fluorochemical finishing; 
  foam finishing; 
  friction calendering; 
  fulling; 
  gigging; 
  glazing; 
  grass bleaching/grassing/crofting;   loading; 
  London shrinking; 
  mercerization (hot/post/slack); 
  milling; 
  mordanted; 
  napping/friezé; 
  padding/slop padding/nip padding; 
  parchmentizing; 
  plaiting; 
  polishing; 
  potting; 
  precrêping; 
  pre-sensitization; 
  pre-shrunk; 
  pressure decatizing; 
  proofing; 
  relaxing; 
  rigging; 
  schreiner; 
  setting; 
  shrink-resistant; 
  silicone finish;   simili mercerizing; 
  singeing; 
  soaping; 
  softening; 
  soil release finish; 
  solvent scouring; 
  sour; 
  stabilized finish; 
  stainblocker; 
  stiffened; 
  stitch finish; 
  stripping; 
  sueding; 
  water-repellent; 
  wet fixation; and 
  Wigan finish. 
 