 
 
 
 
 
Agreement Establishing the ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area 
 
 
 
 
THAILAND’S SCHEDULE OF MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS COMMITMENTS  
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  
THAILAND’S SCHEDULE OF MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS COMMITMENTS  
 
 
 
Note:   
1.  The scope and classification of sub-sectors contained in this schedule, unless otherwise specified, corresponds to the explanatory notes for services listed in the 1991 Central Product 
Classification (CPC) of the United Nations Statistical Office, while the ordering is based on the Services Sectoral Classification List set out in document MTN.GNS/W/120 dated 10 July 1991. 
2.  The use of “**” indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  2 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  3 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  4 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  5 
 
                                                            
1 In considering managerial needs, the following facts shall be taken into consideration by the relevant authority, namely:  (1) size of fully paid-up capital; (2) employment creation; 
(3) extent of foreign investment; (4) export promotion; (5) transfer of technology; (6) special needs of the management. 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  6 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  7 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  8 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  9 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  10 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  11 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  12 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  13 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  14 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  15 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  16 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  17 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  18 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  19 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  20 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  21 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  22 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  23 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  24 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  25 
 
                                                            
  2 A Thai captain of a Thai ship which sails regularly in certain compulsory pilotage area may be permitted to pilot the ship in the area. 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  26 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  27 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  28 
 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  29 
Reference Paper 
 
NOTE TO THE SCHEDULE 
 
 
1.  Where road, rail, inland waterways and related auxiliary services are not otherwise fully covered in this schedule, a multimodal transport 
operator shall have the ability to rent or lease trucks, railway carriages or barges, and related equipment, for the purpose of inland forwarding of 
cargoes, or have access to and use of these forms of multimodal activities on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions for the 
purpose of carrying out multimodal transport operations. 
 
2.  "Reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions" means, for the purpose of multimodal transport operations, the ability of 
multimodal transport operator to arrange for the conveyance of its merchandise on a timely basis, including priority over other merchandise 
which enter the port at a later date. 
 
3.  Definitions: 
 
3.1  "cabotage":  for the purpose of this schedule, means the transportation or towage of passengers or goods, between a port or place 
located in Thai waters and another port or place located in Thai waters. 
 
3.2  "Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services":  for the purpose of this schedule, 
means the ability for international maritime transport service suppliers of other members to undertake locally the following: 
 
(a)  Marketing and sales of maritime transport services through direct contact with customers, from quotation to invoicing, these services 
being those operated or offered by the service supplier itself; 
(b)   The procurement, on their own account of any transport and related services, necessary for the supply of the integrated service; 
(c)   The preparation of documentation concerning transport documents, customer documents, or other document related to the origin and 
character of the goods transported; 
(d)  Setting up of any business arrangements (including participation in the stock of a company) and the appointment of personnel recruited 
locally with any locally established shipping agency:  As indicated in the horizontal section. 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  30 
3.3  "Multimodal transport operator" means the person on whose behalf the bill of lading/multimodal transport document, or any other 
document evidencing a contract of multimodal carriage of goods, is issued and who is responsible for the carriage of goods pursuant to the 
contract of carriage. 
 
3.4  "Freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organizing and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, 
through the procurement of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
 
________ 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Thailand)  31