 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement Establishing the ASEAN–Australia-New Zealand Free 
Trade Area  
 
 
 
 
NEW ZEALAND’S SCHEDULE OF MOVEMENT OF NATURAL 
PERSONS COMMITMENTS 
 
 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (New Zealand) 
  
1.    New  Zealand’s commitments under  Chapter 9 (Movement of 
Natural Persons), and under Article 3 (National Treatment) and Article 
4 (Market Access) of Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), in relation to the 
supply by a service supplier of one Party through presence of natural 
persons of a Party in the territory of another Party apply only in relation 
to the categories of persons set out below. 
 
2  In  accordance  with  Articles  3,  4  and  8  (National  Treatment, 
Market Access and Schedules of Specific Commitments) of Chapter 8 
(Trade  in  Services),  for  the  categories  of  persons  set  out  in  this 
Schedule,  New  Zealand  specifies  below  any  terms,  conditions, 
limitations or qualifications in relation to the supply of a service by a 
service supplier of a Party through the presence of natural persons of a 
Party in the territory of New Zealand. 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (New Zealand)  2
  
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (New Zealand)  3
  
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (New Zealand)  4
  
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (New Zealand)  5
  
 
3  Notwithstanding the commitments set out above, New Zealand 
remains unbound in cases of labour/management disputes, and also 
with respect to ships’ crews.  
 
4.  With  respect  to  audiovisual  services,  the  New  Zealand 
Immigration  policy,  based  on  the  Immigration  Act  1987  and  the 
Immigration Regulations 1999, stipulates a special procedure for the 
granting  of  visas  to  entertainers,  performing  artists  and  associated 
support personnel for work purposes.  To be eligible for a work visa or 
work permit, such applicants must come within the policy guidelines 
agreed to between the Minister of Immigration, independent promoters, 
agents or producers and the relevant performing artists’ unions. 
 
5.  All  the  commitments  in  respect  of  the  presence  of  natural 
persons mode in New Zealand’s Schedule of Specific Commitments in 
the  WTO  (as  currently  set  out  in  GATS/SC/62),  including  any 
requirements,  regulations and additional  commitments,  apply to  the 
services suppliers of the other Parties. 
 
________ 
                                                            
1 These qualifications must be recognised by the appropriate New Zealand authority 
where under New Zealand law such recognition is a condition of the provision of 
that service in New Zealand. 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (New Zealand)  6
 