AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement Establishing the ASEAN–Australia–New Zealand Free 
Trade Area 
 
 
 
 
THE PHILIPPINE SCHEDULE OF MOVEMENT OF NATURAL 
PERSONS COMMITMENTS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)                                                                                2 
 
1. 
This schedule applies to all sectors covered under the specific 
commitments of the Philippines in the Trade in Services Chapter of the 
AANZFTA. 
 
2. 
Philippines’ commitments under the Movement of Natural Persons 
Chapter, and under Article 3 (National Treatment) and Article 4 (Market 
Access) of the Trade in Services Chapter, in relation to the supply by a 
service supplier of one Party through presence of natural persons of a 
Party in the territory of another Party, apply only in relation to the 
categories of persons set out below. 
 
3. 
In accordance with Articles 3, 4 and 8 (National Treatment, Market 
Access and Specific Commitments) of the Trade in Services Chapter, for 
the categories of persons set out in this Schedule, Philippines specifies 
below any terms, conditions, limitations or qualifications in relation to the 
supply of a service by a service supplier of a Party through the presence 
of natural persons of a Party in the territory of the Philippines. 
 
a) 
The Philippines shall require a covered natural person of 
each Party seeking entry and temporary stay under the 
terms and conditions set out in each category below to 
obtain an appropriate visa prior to entry pursuant to the 
Philippine Immigration Act of 1940, as amended. 
 
b) 
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 40 of the Labor Code, 
as amended and its implementing rules and regulations, 
non-resident aliens may be admitted to the Philippines for 
the supply of a service after a determination of the non-
availability of a person in the Philippines who is competent, 
able and willing at the time of application, to perform the 
services for which the alien is desired.  
 
c) 
Pursuant to Section 14, Article XII of the Constitution of the 
Republic of the Philippines, the practice of profession in the 
Philippines shall be limited to Filipino citizens, save in cases 
prescribed by law. If the position of the natural person 
constitutes the practice of a regulated profession under the 
laws and regulations of the Philippines, the natural person 
must secure a special permit to practice the regulated 
profession from the Professional Regulation Commission 
pursuant to Section 7(j) of Republic Act No. 8981, and obtain 
an AEP from DOLE pursuant to Article 40 of the Labor Code 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)                                                                                3 
 
as amended. The natural person shall likewise comply with 
the requirements relative to practice of profession by a 
foreign national as provided for in the appropriate 
professional regulatory law. 
 
d) 
In activities expressly reserved by law to citizens of the 
Philippines, (i.e. foreign equity is limited to a minority share) 
all executive and managing officers must be citizens of the 
Philippines. The number of non-Filipino citizens in the Board 
of Directors of an entity shall be proportionate to the 
aggregate share of foreign capital to that entity. 
 
e) 
For Telecommunications sector, individual service suppliers 
must be Filipino citizens. The number of non-Filipino citizens 
in the Board of Directors of an entity shall be proportionate to 
the aggregate share of foreign capital to that entity. All 
executives and managers must be citizens of the 
Philippines.  
 
f) 
For banking services, unbound except as indicated in item 2 
of this schedule. A non-Filipino citizen employed as officer or 
assigned to do technical functions shall have two Filipino 
understudies.  
 
g) 
For all insurance and insurance related services, only aliens 
qualified to hold technical positions may be employed within 
the first five (5) years of operation of the enterprise, their 
stay not to exceed five (5) years upon entry. Each employed 
alien shall have at least two Filipino understudies. 
 
h) 
For transport services, only aliens qualified to hold technical 
positions may be employed within the first five (5) years of 
operation of the enterprise, their stay not to exceed five (5) 
years upon entry. Each employed alien shall have two 
Filipino understudies. For specialized vessels, aliens may be 
employed as supernumeraries only for a period of six 
months. 
 
i) 
All measures relating to permanent residents are unbound. 
The Philippines reserves the right to enact laws on the 
treatment of permanent residents of foreign countries. Until 
such time as the Philippines enacts said domestic law, the 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)                                                                                4 
 
obligations of the Philippines with respect to the permanent 
residents of the other Parties shall be limited to the 
Philippines’ obligations under the GATS, and the obligations 
of the other Parties with respect to the permanent residents 
of the Philippines shall be limited to their obligations under 
the GATS. 
 
 
Categories of Natural Persons 
Covered under this Commitment
Conditions and Limitations 
(Including Period of Stay) 
 
1. Business visitors 
 
Natural persons who enter the 
Philippines for the purpose of 
participating in business 
contracts including negotiations 
for the sale of goods or 
services, or other similar 
activities including those to 
prepare for establishing 
commercial presence in the 
Philippines, without acquiring 
remuneration from the 
Philippines and without 
engaging in the supply of 
services. 
 
 
 
Entry and temporary stay shall 
be granted to a natural person of 
each Party, who stays in the 
Philippines for an initial period of 
fifty nine (59) days, which may 
be extended every two (2) 
months thereafter for a total 
period of stay of one (1) year 
 
2.  Intra-corporate Transferees   
 
A natural person of each Party 
who is a manager, executive or 
person with specialized 
technology or knowledge, who 
has been employed by a 
juridical person that supplies 
services and/or has established 
commercial presence in each 
Party’s territory and who is 
being transferred to its branch, 
subsidiary, affiliate, 
representative office or joint 
 
 
 
Entry and temporary stay for 
one (1) year, which may be 
extended. 
 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)                                                                                5 
 
Categories of Natural Persons 
Covered under this Commitment
Conditions and Limitations 
(Including Period of Stay) 
venture partner in the 
Philippines. 
 
 
3.   Investors engaged in the 
following: 
 
(a)  activities to invest in 
business  in the 
Philippines and manage 
such business; 
 
(b)   activities to manage 
business  in the 
Philippines on behalf of a 
person other than that of 
the Philippines who has 
invested in such 
business; or 
 
(c)  conduct  of  business  in  
the Philippines in which a 
person other than that of 
the Philippines has 
invested. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entry and temporary stay for a 
period of one (1) year, which 
may be extended, shall be 
granted to a natural person of  
each Party who engages in any 
of these activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.   Natural Persons of each 
Party who Engage in 
Supplying Services, which 
Require Technology or 
Knowledge at an Advanced 
Level or which Require 
Specialized Skills belonging 
to Particular Fields of 
Industry, on the Basis of a 
Contract with Public or 
Private Organizations in the 
Philippines. 
 
 
Entry and temporary stay for a 
period of one (1) year, which 
may be extended, shall be 
granted to a natural person of a 
Party who occupies a technical, 
advisory or supervisory position 
on the basis of a personal 
contract with a public or private 
organization in the Philippines. 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)                                                                                6 
 
Categories of Natural Persons 
Covered under this Commitment
Conditions and Limitations 
(Including Period of Stay) 
Technical, Advisory or 
Supervisory position does not 
include skilled labor, and does 
not involve the practice of 
regulated profession as defined 
under the laws and regulations 
of the Philippines except for 
professionals covered in the 
schedule of commitments 
under the professional services 
in the Trade in Services 
Chapter, subject to the 
issuance of Special Permit by 
the Professional Regulation 
Commission and Alien 
Employment Permit by the 
Department of Labor and 
Employment pursuant to 
Section 7(j) of the PRC 
Modernization Act of 2000 and 
the applicable regulatory laws 
for each profession. 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 4 (Philippines)                                                                                7 
 
Categories of Natural Persons 
Covered under this Commitment
Conditions and Limitations 
(Including Period of Stay) 
 
5.   Natural  Persons  of  Each  
Party  who  Engage in 
Professional Service under 
a Twinning or Bridging 
Program Done Through an 
Accredited Higher 
Education Institution in the 
Philippines by a Foreign 
Higher Education Provider 
 
A natural person of each 
Party who is a Specialist with 
knowledge at an advanced 
level in the fields of 
agriculture, industrial, 
environment and natural 
resources management, 
engineering, architecture, 
science and technology,  
nursing and midwifery, 
curriculum development and 
enhancement, library and 
laboratory enrichment and 
cultural exchange in the fields 
of agriculture, industrial, 
environment and natural 
resources management, 
engineering, architecture, 
science and technology and 
health-related programs on 
the basis of a contract with 
public or private Higher 
Education Institution in the 
Philippines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entry and temporary stay for a 
period of one (1) year, which 
may be extended. 
 
 
 
 
________ 
