 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 
 
SCHEDULES OF TARIFF COMMITMENTSANNEX 1 
 
SCHEDULES OF TARIFF COMMITMENTS 
 
General Notes 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a)  “HS  Code”  and  “Description”  refers  to  the  relevant 
national  tariff  line  of  a  Party  and  its  corresponding 
description as they existed in that Party’s national tariff 
schedule as of 1 January 2005; and 
  
(b)  “Base Rate” refers to the applied most-favoured-nation 
(MFN) rates of duty in effect on 1 January 2005 in the 
Customs Tariff schedules of each of the Parties and, for 
non-WTO Parties, the rates of duty applied to Australia 
and New Zealand on 1 January 2005. 
 
2.  Entry into force of this Agreement shall refer to the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement pursuant to Article 7.1 and 7.2 (Entry into 
Force) of Chapter 18 (Final Provisions). 
 
3.  For the purposes of implementing reduction and/or elimination 
of customs duties, the first reduction shall take place on the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement, and subsequent reductions shall 
take place on 1 January of each following year. 
 
4.  Irrespective of the year of entry into force of this Agreement, the 
initial reduction or elimination of customs duties shall be implemented 
at the level of reduction or elimination specified for that year in the 
schedules of tariff commitments in this Annex. 
 
5.  For a Party for which this Agreement enters into force at a later 
date than provided for in Article 7.1 and 7.2  (Entry into  Force)  of 
Chapter 18 (Final Provisions), the initial reduction or elimination of 
customs duties shall be implemented at the level specified in that 
Party’s  schedule  of  tariff  commitments  for  the  year  in  which  the 
Agreement enters into force for that Party. 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 1  16.  Issues arising from implementation of changes to the HS Code 
shall be dealt with in accordance with procedures adopted by the FTA 
Joint  Committee  established  pursuant  to  Article  1  (FTA  Joint 
Committee) of Chapter 16 (Institutional Provisions). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AANZFTA – Annex 1  2