 
 
ANNEX ON FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
Article 1 
Scope and Definitions 
 
1.  This Annex applies to measures affecting the supply of 
financial  services.  Reference  to  the  supply  of  a  financial 
service in this Annex shall mean the supply of a service as 
defined  in  Article  2(s)  (Definitions)  of  Chapter  8  (Trade  in 
Services). 
 
2.  For the purposes of Article 2(n) (Definitions) of Chapter 
8 (Trade in Services), “services supplied in the exercise of 
governmental authority” means the following: 
 
(a)  activities  conducted  by  a  central  bank  or 
monetary authority or by any other public entity in 
pursuit of monetary or exchange rate policies; 
 
(b)  activities  forming  part  of  a  statutory  system  of 
social security or public retirement plans; or 
 
(c)  other activities conducted by a public entity for 
the account or with the guarantee or using the 
financial resources of the government. 
 
3.  For the purposes of Article 2(n) (Definitions) of Chapter 
8 (Trade in Services), if a Party allows any of the activities 
referred to in Paragraph (2)(b) or (c) to be conducted by its 
financial service suppliers in competition with a public entity 
or a financial service supplier, “services” shall include such 
activities. 
 
4.  Article  2(q)  (Definitions)  of  Chapter  8  (Trade  in 
Services) shall not apply to services covered by this Annex. 
  106 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a)  a financial service is any service of a financial 
nature offered by a financial service supplier of a 
Party.  Financial  services  include  all  insurance 
and insurance-related services, and all banking 
and other financial services (excluding insurance). 
Financial services include the following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(i)  Direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(A)  life; and 
 
(B)  non-life; 
 
(ii)  Reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(iii)  Insurance  intermediation,  such  as 
brokerage and agency; and 
 
(iv)  Services  auxiliary  to  insurance,  such  as 
consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment and 
claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding 
insurance) 
 
(v)  Acceptance  of  deposits  and  other 
repayable funds from the public; 
 
(vi)  Lending  of  all  types,  including  consumer 
credit,  mortgage  credit,  factoring  and 
financing of commercial transaction; 
  107 
 
(vii)  Financial leasing; 
 
(viii)  All  payment  and  money  transmission 
services, including credit, charge and debit 
cards,  travellers’  cheques  and  bankers 
drafts; 
 
(ix)  Guarantees and commitments; 
 
(x)  Trading for own account or for account of 
customers, whether on an exchange, in an 
over-the-counter  market  or  otherwise,  the 
following: 
 
(A)  money market instruments (including 
cheques,  bills,  certificates  of 
deposits); 
 
(B)  foreign exchange; 
 
(C)  derivative products including, but not 
limited to, futures and options; 
 
(D)  exchange  rate  and  interest  rate 
instruments, including products such 
as swaps, forward rate agreements; 
 
(E)  transferable securities; and 
 
(F)  other  negotiable  instruments  and 
financial assets, including bullion; 
 
(xi)  Participation  in  issues  of  all  kinds  of 
securities,  including  underwriting  and 
placement  as  agent  (whether  publicly  or 
privately) and provision of services related 
to such issues; 
 
  108 
(xii)  Money broking; 
 
(xiii)  Asset  management,  such  as  cash  or 
portfolio  management,  all  forms  of 
collective  investment  management, 
pension  fund  management,  custodial, 
depository and trust services; 
 
(xiv)  Settlement  and  clearing  services  for 
financial  assets,  including  securities, 
derivative  products,  and  other  negotiable 
instruments; 
 
(xv)  Provision  and  transfer  of  financial 
information,  and  financial  data  processing 
and related software by suppliers of other 
financial services; and 
 
(xvi)  Advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary 
financial services on all the activities listed 
in  Subparagraphs  (v)  to  (xv),  including 
credit  reference  and  analysis,  investment 
and  portfolio  research  and  advice,  advice 
on  acquisitions  and  on  corporate 
restructuring and strategy; 
 
(b)  a financial service supplier means any natural 
or juridical person of a Party wishing to supply or 
supplying  financial  services  but  the  term 
“financial  service  supplier”  does  not  include  a 
public entity; 
 
(c)  public entity means: 
 
(i)  a  government,  a  central  bank  or  a 
monetary authority, of a Party, or an entity 
owned  or  controlled  by  a  Party,  that  is 
principally  engaged  in  carrying  out 
governmental  functions  or  activities  for 
  109 
governmental  purposes,  not  including  an 
entity  principally  engaged  in  supplying 
financial services on commercial terms; or 
 
(ii)  a  private  entity,  performing  functions 
normally  performed  by  a  central  bank  or 
monetary authority, when exercising those 
functions; and 
 
(d)  self-regulatory organisation: 
 
(i)  in the case of Australia and New Zealand, 
means  any  non-governmental  body, 
including  any  securities  or  futures 
exchange  or  market,  clearing  or  payment 
settlement agency, or other organisation or 
association  that  exercises  its  own  or 
delegated  regulatory  or  supervisory 
authority over financial service suppliers or 
financial institutions; and  
 
(ii)  in  the  case  of  ASEAN  Member  States, 
means  any  non-governmental  body, 
including  any  securities  or  futures 
exchange  or  market,  clearing  or  payment 
settlement  agency,  other  organisation  or 
association that is recognised by legislation 
as  a  self-regulatory  organisation  and 
exercises  regulatory  or  supervisory 
authority over financial service suppliers or 
financial institutions pursuant to legislation 
or delegation from central, regional or local 
governments or authorities. 
 
Article 3 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, 
a  Party  shall  not  be  prevented  from  taking  measures  for 
  110 
prudential reasons, including for the protection of investors, 
depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary 
duty is owed by a financial service supplier, or to ensure the 
integrity and stability of the financial system or to ensure the 
stability of the exchange rate1 subject to the following: 
 
(a)  where such measures do not conform with the 
provisions of this Agreement, they shall not be 
used  as  a  means  of  avoiding  the  Party’s 
commitments  or  obligations  under  this 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  for  measures  to  ensure  the  stability  of  the 
exchange rate such measures shall be no more 
than necessary and phased out when conditions 
no longer justify their institution or maintenance; 
and 
 
(c)  for  measures  to  ensure  the  stability  of  the 
exchange rate such measures shall be applied 
on a most-favoured-nation basis. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require 
a  Party  to  disclose  information  relating  to  the  affairs  and 
accounts  of  individual  customers  or  any  confidential  or 
proprietary information in the possession of public entities. 
 
Article 4 
Recognition 
 
1.  A  Party  may  recognise  prudential  measures  of  any 
international standard setting body, another Party, or a non-
Party in determining how the Party's measures relating to 
financial services shall be applied. Such recognition, which 
may be achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may 
be  based  upon  an  agreement  or  arrangement  with  the 
                                                 
1  The measures to ensure the stability of the exchange rate shall not be adopted or 
maintained for the purpose of protecting a particular sector. 
 
  111 
international standard setting body, another Party, or a non-
Party concerned or may be accorded autonomously. 
 
2.  A  Party  that  is  a  party  to  such  an  agreement  or 
arrangement referred to in Paragraph 1, whether future or 
existing,  shall  afford  adequate  opportunity  for  other 
interested  Parties  to  negotiate  their  accession  to  such 
agreements  or  arrangements,  or  to  negotiate  comparable 
ones with it, under circumstances in which there would be 
equivalent  regulation,  oversight,  implementation  of  such 
regulation,  and,  if  appropriate,  procedures  concerning  the 
sharing of information between the parties to the agreement 
or arrangement. 
 
3.  Where  a  Party  accords  recognition  autonomously,  it 
shall  afford  adequate  opportunity  for  any  other  Party  to 
demonstrate  that  such  circumstances  as  referred  to  in 
Paragraph 2 exist. 
 
Article 5 
Regulatory Transparency 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  that  transparent  measures 
governing  the  activities  of  financial  institutions  and  cross-
border financial service suppliers are important in facilitating 
their ability to gain access to and operate in each other’s 
market. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  measures  of  general 
application adopted or maintained by a Party are promptly 
published or otherwise made publicly available.2 
 
3.  Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as 
may  be  available  to  it to ensure that  the  rules  of  general 
application  adopted  or  maintained  by  self-regulatory 
                                                 
2  For greater certainty, the Parties agree that such information may be published in 
each Party’s chosen language. 
 
  112 
organisations 3  of  the  Party  are  promptly  published  or 
otherwise made publicly available.4 
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  maintain  or  establish  appropriate 
mechanisms  for  responding  to  inquiries  from  interested 
persons  of  another  Party  regarding  measures  of  general 
application to which this Annex applies.5 
 
5.  Each  Party’s  regulatory  authorities  shall  use  its  best 
endeavours  to  make  available  to  interested  persons  of 
another  Party  their  requirements,  including  any 
documentation required, for completing applications relating 
to the supply of financial services. 
 
6.  On  the  request  of  an  applicant  in  writing,  regulatory 
authorities of a Party shall inform the applicant of the status 
of its application in writing. If an authority requires additional 
information  from  the  applicant,  it  shall  notify  the  applicant 
without undue delay. 
 
7.  Each  Party’s  regulatory  authorities  shall  make 
administrative  decisions  on  a  completed  application  of  a 
financial service supplier of another Party seeking to supply 
a financial service in that Party's territory within 180 days and 
shall  notify  the  applicant  of  the decision in  writing  without 
undue delay: 
 
(a)  an application shall not be considered complete 
until all relevant proceedings are conducted and 
the regulatory authorities consider all necessary 
information is received; 
 
                                                 
3  This Paragraph only applies to a Party when that Party has established self- 
regulatory organisations. 
 
4  For greater certainty, the Parties agree that such information may be published in 
each Party’s chosen language.  
 
5  The Parties confirm their shared understanding that interested persons in this 
Article should only be persons whose direct financial interest could be potentially 
affected by the adoption of the regulations of general application. 
  113 
(b)  where it is not practicable for a decision to be 
made  within  180  days,  the  regulatory  authority 
shall notify the applicant without delay and shall 
endeavour  to  make  the  decision  within  a 
reasonable time thereafter. 
 
8.  On the request of an unsuccessful applicant in writing, 
a  regulatory  authority  that  has  denied  an  application  shall 
endeavour to inform the applicant of the reasons for denial of 
the application in writing. 
 
Article 6 
Financial Services Exceptions 
 
Nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  the 
adoption or enforcement by a Party of measures necessary 
to secure compliance with laws or regulations that are not 
inconsistent with this Chapter, including those relating to the 
prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to deal 
with the effects of a default on financial services contracts, 
subject always to the requirement that such measures are 
not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of 
arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  between  countries 
where  like  conditions  prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
investment  in  financial  institutions  or  trade  in  financial 
services. 
 
Article 7 
Transfers of Information and Processing of Information 
 
1.  A Party shall not take measures that: 
 
(a)  prevent  transfers  of  information,  including 
transfers of data by electronic means, necessary 
for  the  conduct  of  the  ordinary  business  of  a 
financial service supplier; 
 
  114 
(b)  prevent the processing of information necessary 
for  the  conduct  of  the  ordinary  business  of  a 
financial service supplier; or 
 
(c)  prevent transfers of equipment necessary for the 
conduct  of  the  ordinary  business  of  a  financial 
service  supplier,  subject  to  importation  rules 
consistent with international agreements. 
 
2.  Nothing in Paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  restricts the right of a Party to protect personal 
data, personal privacy and the confidentiality of 
individual  records  and  accounts  including  in 
accordance  with  its  domestic  laws  and 
regulations  so  long  as  such  right  shall  not  be 
used  as  a  means  of  avoiding  the  Party’s 
commitments  or  obligations  under  this 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  prevents a regulator of a Party for regulatory or 
prudential  reasons  from  requiring  a  financial 
service  supplier  in  its  territory  to  comply  with 
domestic  regulation  in  relation  to  data 
management  and  storage  and  system 
maintenance,  as  well  as  to  retain  within  its 
territory copies of records; or 
 
(c)  shall be construed to require a Party to allow the 
cross-border supply or the consumption abroad 
of services in relation to which it has not made 
specific  commitments,  including  to  allow  non-
resident suppliers of financial services to supply, 
as a principal, through an intermediary or as an 
intermediary,  the  provision  and  transfer  of 
financial  information  and  financial  data 
processing  as  referred  to  in  Article  2(a)(xv) 
(Definitions). 
 
  115 
Article 8 
Dispute Settlement 
 
Members  of  arbitral  tribunals  established  pursuant  to 
Chapter  17  (Consultations  and  Dispute  Settlement)  for 
disputes  on  prudential  issues  and  other  financial  matters 
shall have the necessary expertise relevant to the specific 
financial service under dispute. 
  116