 
 
206
 
CHAPTER 17 
 
CONSULTATIONS AND DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
SECTION A 
 
Introductory Provisions 
 
Article 1 
Objectives 
 
The objective of this Chapter is to provide an effective, 
efficient and transparent process for consultations and 
settlement of disputes arising under this Agreement. 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions 
shall apply unless the context otherwise requires: 
 
(a) 
Complaining Party means any Party or Parties 
that request consultations under Article 6 
(Consultations); 
 
(b) 
dispute arising under this Agreement means a 
complaint made by a Party concerning any 
measure affecting the operation, implementation 
or application of this Agreement whereby any 
benefit accruing to the Complaining Party directly 
or indirectly under this Agreement is being 
nullified or impaired, or the attainment of any 
objective of this Agreement is being impeded, as 
a result of the failure of the Responding Party to 
carry out its obligations1 under this Agreement2; 
                                                 
1  A failure to carry out its obligations includes application by the Responding Party of 
any measure which is in conflict with the obligations under this Agreement. 
2  Non-violation complaints are not permitted under this Agreement. 
 
 
207
 
(c) 
Parties to the dispute means the Complaining 
Party and the Responding Party; 
 
(d) 
Responding Party means any Party to which the 
request for consultations is made under Article 6 
(Consultations); and 
 
(e) 
Third Party means any Party who has notified its 
substantial trade interest or substantial interest in 
the matter pursuant to Article 6.7 (Consultations) 
or Article 10.1 (Third Parties) respectively. 
 
Article 3 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this 
Chapter shall apply to the avoidance or settlement of 
disputes arising under this Agreement. This Chapter shall not 
apply to the settlement of disputes arising under Chapter 5 
(Sanitary 
and 
Phytosanitary 
Measures), 
Chapter 
10 
(Electronic 
Commerce), 
Chapter 
12 
(Economic 
Co-
operation) and Chapter 14 (Competition). 
 
2. 
This Chapter shall apply subject to such special and 
additional provisions on dispute settlement contained in other 
Chapters of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Subject to Article 5 (Choice of Forum), this Chapter is 
without prejudice to the rights of a Party to have recourse to 
dispute 
settlement 
procedures 
available 
under 
other 
agreements to which it is a party. 
 
4. 
This Chapter may be invoked in respect of measures 
affecting the observance of this Agreement taken by central, 
regional or local governments or authorities within the 
territory of a Party. 
 
 
 
 
208
Article 4 
General Provisions 
 
1. 
This Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with 
the customary rules of treaty interpretation of public 
international law. 
 
2. 
All notifications, requests and replies made pursuant to 
this Chapter shall be in writing. 
 
3. 
The Parties to the dispute are encouraged at every 
stage of a dispute to make every effort to reach a mutually 
agreed solution to the dispute. Where a mutually agreed 
solution is reached, the terms and conditions of the 
agreement shall be notified to the other Parties. 
 
4. 
Unless otherwise specified, any time periods provided 
for in this Chapter may be modified by mutual agreement of 
the Parties to the dispute provided that any modification shall 
not prejudice the rights of the Third Parties pursuant to 
Article 10 (Third Parties). 
 
Article 5 
Choice of Forum 
 
1. 
Where a dispute concerning any matter arises under 
this Agreement and under another international agreement to 
which the Parties to the dispute are party, the Complaining 
Party may select the forum in which to address that matter 
and that forum shall be used to the exclusion of other 
possible fora in respect of that matter. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Article, the Complaining Party 
shall be deemed to have selected the forum in which to settle 
the dispute when it has requested the establishment of an 
arbitral tribunal pursuant to Article 8 (Request for 
Establishment of Arbitral Tribunals) or requested the 
establishment of, or referred a matter to, a similar dispute 
settlement panel under another international agreement. 
 
 
209
 
3. 
This Article does not apply where the Parties to the 
dispute agree in writing that this Article shall not apply to a 
particular dispute. 
 
SECTION B 
 
Consultation Provisions 
 
Article 6 
Consultations 
 
1. 
Any Party may request consultations with any other 
Party with respect to any dispute arising under this 
Agreement. 
A 
Responding 
Party 
shall 
accord 
due 
consideration to a request for consultations made by a 
Complaining Party and shall accord adequate opportunity for 
such consultations. 
 
2. 
Any request for consultations shall give the reasons for 
the request, including identification of the measures at issue 
and an indication of the legal basis for the complaint. 
 
3. 
A copy of all such requests shall be simultaneously 
provided to all Parties. The Responding Party shall 
immediately acknowledge receipt of the request by way of 
notification to all Parties, indicating the date on which the 
request was received. 
 
4. 
The Responding Party shall, unless otherwise mutually 
agreed, reply to the request within seven days after the date 
of its receipt and shall enter into consultations within a period 
of no more than: 
 
(a) 
ten days after the date of receipt of the request in 
cases of urgency, including perishable goods; or 
 
(b) 
30 days after the date of receipt of the request for 
all other matters. 
 
 
210
 
5. 
If the Responding Party does not enter into 
consultations within the periods specified in Paragraph 4, or 
a period otherwise mutually agreed, the Complaining Party 
may proceed directly to request the establishment of an 
arbitral tribunal pursuant to Article 8 (Request for 
Establishment of Arbitral Tribunals). 
 
6. 
The Parties to the dispute shall make every effort to 
reach a mutually satisfactory solution through consultations. 
To this end, the Parties to the dispute shall: 
 
(a) 
provide sufficient information to enable a full 
examination of the matter, including how the 
measures 
at 
issue 
might 
affect 
the 
implementation or application of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
treat any confidential or proprietary information 
exchanged in the course of consultations on the 
same 
basis 
as 
the 
Party 
providing 
the 
information; and 
 
(c) 
endeavour 
to 
make 
available 
for 
the 
consultations 
personnel 
of 
its 
government 
agencies or other regulatory bodies who have 
responsibility for and/or expertise in the matter 
under consultation. 
 
7. 
Whenever a Party other than the Parties to the dispute 
considers that it has a substantial trade interest in the 
consultations, such Party may notify the Parties to the 
dispute within seven days after the notification of the request 
for consultations, of its desire to be joined in the 
consultations. Such notification shall be simultaneously 
provided to all Parties. Such Party shall be joined in the 
consultations if the Parties to the dispute agree. 
 
 
211
 
Article 7 
Good Offices, Conciliation, Mediation 
 
1. 
The Parties to the dispute may at any time agree to 
good offices, conciliation or mediation. Procedures for good 
offices, conciliation or mediation may begin at any time and 
may be terminated at any time. 
 
2. 
If the Parties to the dispute agree, procedures for good 
offices, conciliation or mediation may continue while the 
matter is being examined by an arbitral tribunal established 
or re-convened under this Chapter. 
 
3. 
Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation and 
mediation and positions taken by the Parties to the dispute 
during these proceedings shall be confidential and without 
prejudice to the rights of any Parties to the dispute in any 
further or other proceedings. 
 
SECTION C 
 
Adjudication Provisions 
 
Article 8 
Request for Establishment of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1. 
The Complaining Party may request the establishment 
of an arbitral tribunal to consider the matter if: 
 
(a) 
the Responding Party does not enter into 
consultations in accordance with Article 6.4 
(Consultations); or 
 
(b) 
if the consultations fail to resolve a dispute within: 
 
(i) 
20 days after the date of receipt of the 
request for consultations in cases of 
urgency including perishable goods; 
 
 
212
 
(ii) 
60 days after the date of receipt of the 
request for consultations regarding any 
other matter; or 
 
(iii) 
such other period as the Parties to the 
dispute may agree. 
 
2. 
A request made pursuant to Paragraph 1 shall identify 
the specific measures at issue and provide details of the 
factual and legal basis of the complaint (including the 
provisions of this Agreement to be addressed by the arbitral 
tribunal) sufficient to present the problem clearly. 
 
3. 
A copy of all such requests shall be simultaneously 
provided to all Parties. The Responding Party shall 
immediately acknowledge receipt of the request by way of 
notification to all Parties, indicating the date on which the 
request was received. 
 
4. 
Where a request is made pursuant to Paragraph 1, an 
arbitral tribunal shall be established in accordance with 
Article 11 (Establishment and Re-convening of Arbitral 
Tribunals). 
 
Article 9 
Procedures for Multiple Complainants 
 
1. 
Where more than one Party requests the establishment 
of an arbitral tribunal related to the same matter, a single 
arbitral tribunal may be established to examine these 
complaints if all of the Parties to the disputes agree. The 
Parties to the disputes should seek to establish a single 
arbitral tribunal whenever feasible. 
 
2. 
The 
single 
arbitral 
tribunal 
shall 
organise 
its 
examination and present its findings in such a manner that 
the rights which the Parties to the dispute would have 
 
 
213
enjoyed had separate arbitral tribunals examined the 
complaints are in no way impaired. 
 
3. 
If more than one arbitral tribunal is established to 
examine the complaints related to the same matter, the 
Parties to the disputes shall endeavour to ensure that the 
same persons serve as arbitrators for each arbitral tribunal. 
The arbitral tribunals shall consult to ensure, to the greatest 
extent possible, that the timetables for the arbitral tribunal 
processes are harmonised. 
 
Article 10 
Third Parties 
 
1. 
Any Party having a substantial interest in a matter 
before an arbitral tribunal may notify the Parties to the 
dispute of this interest no later than ten days after the date of 
receipt by the Responding Party of the request for the 
establishment of the arbitral tribunal or the date of a request 
for a Compliance Review Tribunal pursuant to Article 16 
(Compliance 
Review). 
Such 
notification 
shall 
be 
simultaneously provided to all Parties. Any Party notifying its 
substantial interest shall have the rights and obligations of a 
Third Party. 
 
2. 
A Third Party shall receive the submissions of the 
Parties to the dispute to the first substantive meeting of the 
arbitral tribunal with the Parties to the dispute. 
 
3. 
A Third Party shall have an opportunity to make at 
least one written submission to the arbitral tribunal and shall 
have an opportunity to be heard by the arbitral tribunal at its 
first substantive meeting with the Parties to the dispute. Any 
submissions or other documents submitted by Third Parties 
shall be simultaneously provided to the Parties to the dispute 
and other Third Parties. 
 
4. 
The Parties to the dispute may agree to provide 
additional or supplemental rights to Third Parties regarding 
 
 
214
participation in arbitral tribunal proceedings. In providing 
additional or supplemental rights, the Parties to the dispute 
may impose conditions. Unless otherwise agreed by the 
Parties to the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall not grant any 
additional or supplemental rights to any Third Parties 
regarding participation in arbitral tribunal proceedings. 
 
5. 
If a Third Party considers that a measure already the 
subject of an arbitral tribunal proceeding nullifies or impairs 
benefits accruing to it under this Agreement, such Party may 
have recourse to dispute settlement procedures under this 
Chapter. 
 
Article 11 
Establishment and Re-convening of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1. 
An arbitral tribunal requested pursuant to Article 8 
(Request for Establishment of Arbitral Tribunals) shall be 
established in accordance with this Article. 
 
2. 
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
arbitral tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators. All 
appointments and nominations of arbitrators under this 
Article shall conform fully with the requirements in 
Paragraphs 9 and 10. 
 
3. 
Within five days of the date of the receipt of a request 
under Article 8 (Request for Establishment of Arbitral 
Tribunals), the Parties to the dispute shall enter into 
consultations with a view to reaching agreement on the 
procedures for composing the arbitral tribunal, taking into 
account the factual, technical and legal circumstances of the 
dispute. The Parties to the dispute may agree to use any of 
the optional procedures specified in this Chapter’s Annex on 
Optional Procedures for Composing Arbitral Tribunals. Any 
procedures for composing the arbitral tribunal which are 
agreed under this Paragraph shall be used for the 
composition of the arbitral tribunal and shall also be used for 
the purposes of Paragraphs 12 and 13. 
 
 
215
 
4. 
If the Parties to the dispute are unable to reach 
agreement on the procedures for composing the arbitral 
tribunal within 15 days of the date of the receipt of the 
request referred to in Paragraph 3, any Party to the dispute 
may at any time thereafter notify the other Parties to the 
dispute that it wishes to use the procedures set forth in 
Paragraphs 5 to 7. Where such a notification is made, the 
arbitral tribunal shall be composed in accordance with 
Paragraphs 5 to 7. 
 
5. 
The Complaining Party or Parties shall appoint one 
arbitrator within ten days of the date of the receipt of the 
notification referred to in Paragraph 4. The Responding Party 
shall appoint one arbitrator within 20 days of the date of the 
receipt of the notification referred to in Paragraph 4. 
 
6. 
Following the appointment of the arbitrators in 
accordance with Paragraph 5, the Parties to the dispute shall 
agree on the appointment of the third arbitrator who shall 
serve as the chair of the arbitral tribunal. To assist in 
reaching this agreement, each of the Parties to the dispute 
may provide to the other Parties to the dispute a list of up to 
three nominees for appointment as the chair of the arbitral 
tribunal. If the Parties to the dispute have not agreed on the 
chair of the arbitral tribunal within 15 days of the appointment 
of the second arbitrator, the two appointed arbitrators shall 
designate by common agreement the third arbitrator who 
shall chair the arbitral tribunal. 
 
7. 
If all three arbitrators have not been appointed within 
45 days of the date of the receipt of the notification referred 
to in Paragraph 4, any Party to the dispute may request the 
Director-General of the WTO to make the remaining 
appointments within a further period of 15 days. Any lists of 
nominees which were provided under Paragraph 6 shall also 
be provided to the Director-General of the WTO and may be 
used in making the required appointments. 
 
 
 
216
8. 
The date of establishment of the arbitral tribunal shall 
be the date on which the last arbitrator is appointed. 
 
9. 
All arbitrators shall: 
 
(a) 
have expertise or experience in law, international 
trade, other matters covered by this Agreement, 
or the resolution of disputes arising under 
international trade agreements; 
 
(b) 
be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, 
reliability, and sound judgement; 
 
(c) 
be independent of, and not be affiliated with or 
take instructions from, any Party to the dispute; 
 
(d) 
not have dealt with the matter in any capacity; 
and 
 
(e)  disclose, to the Parties to the dispute, information 
which may give rise to justifiable doubts as to 
their independence or impartiality. 
 
10. 
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, 
arbitrators shall not be nationals of a Party to the dispute. In 
addition, the chair of arbitral tribunal shall not have his or her 
usual place of residence in the territory of a Party to the 
dispute. 
 
11. 
Arbitrators shall serve in their individual capacities and 
not as government representatives, nor as representatives of 
any organisation. Parties shall not give them instructions nor 
seek to influence them as individuals with regard to matters 
before an arbitral tribunal. 
 
12. 
If an arbitrator appointed under this Article resigns or 
becomes unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be 
appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the 
appointment of the original arbitrator and shall have all the 
 
 
217
powers and duties of the original arbitrator. The work of the 
arbitral tribunal shall be suspended during the appointment 
of the successor arbitrator. 
 
13. 
Where an arbitral tribunal is re-convened under Article 
16 (Compliance Review) or Article 17 (Compensation and 
Suspension of Concessions or other Obligations) the re-
convened arbitral tribunal shall, where possible, have the 
same arbitrators as the original arbitral tribunal. Where this is 
not possible, the replacement arbitrator(s) shall be appointed 
in the same manner as prescribed for the appointment of the 
original arbitrator(s), and shall have all the powers and duties 
of the original arbitrator(s). 
 
Article 12 
Functions of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1. 
An arbitral tribunal shall make an objective assessment 
of the matter before it, including an objective assessment of: 
 
(a) 
the facts of the case; 
 
(b) 
the applicability of the provisions of this 
Agreement cited by the Parties to the dispute; 
and 
 
(c) 
whether the Responding Party has failed to carry 
out its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
2. 
An arbitral tribunal shall have the following terms of 
reference unless the Parties to the dispute agree otherwise 
within 20 days from the date of the establishment of an 
arbitral tribunal: 
 
“To examine, in the light of the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, the matter 
referred to in the request for establishment 
of an arbitral tribunal made pursuant to 
Article 8 (Request for Establishment of 
 
 
218
Arbitral Tribunals), and to make such 
findings and if applicable, suggestions 
provided for in this Agreement.” 
 
The arbitral tribunal shall make its findings in accordance 
with this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The arbitral tribunal shall set out in its report: 
 
(a) 
a descriptive section summarising the arguments 
of the Parties to the dispute and Third Parties; 
 
(b) 
its findings on the facts of the case and on the 
applicability of the provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
its findings on whether the Responding Party has 
failed to carry out its obligations under this 
Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
its reasons for its findings in Subparagraphs (b) 
and (c). 
 
4. 
In addition to Paragraph 3, an arbitral tribunal may 
include in its report any other findings jointly requested by 
the Parties to the dispute. The arbitral tribunal may suggest 
ways in which the Responding Party could implement the 
findings. 
 
5. 
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, an 
arbitral tribunal shall base its report solely on the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement and the submissions and 
arguments of the Parties to the dispute. An arbitral tribunal 
shall only make the findings and suggestions provided for in 
this Agreement. 
 
6. 
The interests of Third Parties and those of other 
Parties shall be fully taken into account during the arbitral 
tribunal proceedings. Third Parties’ submissions shall be 
reflected in the report of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
 
219
 
7. 
The findings and suggestions of the arbitral tribunal 
cannot add to or diminish the rights and obligations provided 
in this Agreement or any other international agreement. 
 
8. 
The arbitral tribunal shall consult regularly the Parties 
to the dispute and provide adequate opportunities for the 
development of a mutually satisfactory solution to the dispute. 
 
9. 
An arbitral tribunal re-convened under this Chapter 
shall also carry out functions with regard to compliance 
review under Article 16 (Compliance Review) and review of 
level of suspension of concessions or other obligations under 
Article 17 (Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or 
other Obligations). Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not apply to an 
arbitral tribunal re-convened under Article 16 (Compliance 
Review) and Article 17 (Compensation and Suspension of 
Concessions or other Obligations). 
 
10. 
An arbitral tribunal shall make its findings by 
consensus provided that where an arbitral tribunal is unable 
to reach consensus it may make its findings by majority vote. 
 
Article 13 
Arbitral Tribunal Procedures 
 
1. 
An arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Article 11 
(Establishment and Re-convening of Arbitral Tribunals) shall 
adhere to this Chapter. The arbitral tribunal shall apply the 
rules of procedure set out in this Chapter’s Annex on Rules 
of Procedure for Arbitral Tribunal Proceedings (Rules of 
Procedure Annex) unless the Parties to the dispute agree 
otherwise. On the request of a Party to the dispute, or on its 
own initiative, the arbitral tribunal may, after consulting the 
Parties to the dispute, adopt additional rules of procedure 
which do not conflict with the provisions of this Chapter or 
with the Rules of Procedure Annex. 
 
 
 
220
2. 
An arbitral tribunal re-convened under Article 16 
(Compliance Review) or Article 17 (Compensation and 
Suspension of Concessions or other Obligations) may 
establish its own procedures which do not conflict with this 
Chapter or the Rules of Procedure Annex, in consultation 
with the Parties to the dispute, drawing as it deems 
appropriate from this Chapter or the Rules of Procedure 
Annex. 
 
Timetable 
 
3. 
After consulting the Parties to the dispute, an arbitral 
tribunal shall, as soon as practicable and whenever possible 
within 15 days after the establishment of the arbitral tribunal, 
fix the timetable for the arbitral tribunal process. The arbitral 
tribunal process, from the date of establishment until the date 
of the final report shall, as a general rule, not exceed the 
period of nine months, unless the Parties to the dispute 
agree otherwise. 
 
4. 
Similarly, a Compliance Review Tribunal re-convened 
pursuant to Article 16 (Compliance Review) shall, as soon as 
practicable and whenever possible within 15 days after re-
convening, fix the timetable for the compliance review 
process taking into account the time periods specified in 
Article 16 (Compliance Review). 
 
Arbitral Tribunal Proceedings 
 
5. 
Arbitral tribunal proceedings should provide sufficient 
flexibility so as to ensure high-quality reports, while not 
unduly delaying the arbitral tribunal process. 
 
6. 
Arbitral tribunal deliberations shall be confidential. The 
Parties to the dispute and Third Parties shall be present only 
when invited by the arbitral tribunal to appear before it. An 
arbitral tribunal shall hold its hearings in closed session 
unless the Parties to the dispute agree otherwise. All 
presentations and statements made at hearings shall be 
 
 
221
made in the presence of the Parties to the dispute. There 
shall be no ex parte communications with the arbitral tribunal 
concerning matters under consideration by it. 
 
Submissions 
 
7. 
Each Party to the dispute shall have an opportunity to 
set out in writing the facts of its case, its arguments and 
counter arguments. The timetable fixed by the arbitral 
tribunal shall include precise deadlines for submissions by 
the Parties to the dispute and Third Parties. 
 
Hearings 
 
8. 
The timetable fixed by the arbitral tribunal shall provide 
for at least one hearing for the Parties to the dispute to 
present their case to the arbitral tribunal. As a general rule, 
the timetable shall not provide more than two hearings 
unless special circumstances exist. 
 
9. 
The venue for hearings shall be decided by mutual 
agreement between the Parties to the dispute. If there is no 
agreement, the venue shall alternate between the capitals of 
the Parties to the dispute with the first hearing to be held in 
the capital of the Responding Party. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
10. 
Written submissions to the arbitral tribunal shall be 
treated as confidential, but shall be made available to the 
Parties to the dispute. No Party to the dispute shall be 
precluded from disclosing statements of its own positions to 
the public provided that there is no disclosure of information 
which has been designated as confidential by a Party to the 
dispute or Third Party. The Parties to the dispute, Third 
Parties and the arbitral tribunal shall treat as confidential 
information submitted by a Party to the dispute to the arbitral 
tribunal which that Party has designated as confidential. A 
Party to the dispute shall upon request of a Party, provide a 
 
 
222
non-confidential summary of the information contained in its 
written submissions that could be disclosed to the public. 
 
Additional Information and Technical Advice 
 
11. 
The Parties to the dispute and Third Parties shall 
respond promptly and fully to any request by an arbitral 
tribunal for such information as the arbitral tribunal considers 
necessary and appropriate. 
 
12. 
An arbitral tribunal may seek information and technical 
advice from any individual or body which it deems 
appropriate. However, before doing so the arbitral tribunal 
shall seek the views of the Parties to the dispute. Where the 
Parties to the dispute agree that the arbitral tribunal should 
not seek the additional information or technical advice, the 
arbitral tribunal shall not proceed. The arbitral tribunal shall 
provide the Parties to the dispute with any information or 
technical advice it receives and an opportunity to provide 
comments. 
 
Report 
 
13. 
The arbitral tribunal shall provide to the Parties to the 
dispute an interim report, meeting the requirements specified 
in Article 12.3 (Functions of Arbitral Tribunals). 
 
14. 
The interim report shall be provided at least four weeks 
before the deadline for completion of the final report. The 
arbitral tribunal shall accord adequate opportunity to the 
Parties to the dispute to review the entirety of its interim 
report prior to its finalisation and shall include a discussion of 
any comments made by the Parties to the dispute in its final 
report. 
 
15. 
The interim and final report of the arbitral tribunal shall 
be drafted without the presence of the Parties to the dispute. 
Opinions expressed in the report of the arbitral tribunal by its 
individual members shall be anonymous. 
 
 
223
 
16. 
The arbitral tribunal shall provide its final report to all 
other Parties seven days after the report is presented to the 
Parties to the dispute, and at any time thereafter a Party to 
the dispute may make the report publicly available subject to 
the protection of any confidential information contained in the 
report. 
 
Article 14 
Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1. 
The Parties to the dispute may agree that the arbitral 
tribunal suspend its work at any time for a period not 
exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement. 
Within this period, the suspended arbitral proceeding shall be 
resumed upon the request of any Party to the dispute. If the 
work of the arbitral tribunal has been continuously 
suspended for more than 12 months, the authority for 
establishment of the arbitral tribunal shall lapse unless the 
Parties to the dispute agree otherwise. 
 
2. 
The Parties to the dispute may agree to terminate the 
proceedings of an arbitral tribunal in the event that a mutually 
satisfactory solution to the dispute has been found. 
 
3. 
Before the arbitral tribunal presents its final report, it 
may at any stage of the proceedings propose to the Parties 
to the dispute that the dispute be settled amicably. 
 
4. 
The Parties to the dispute shall notify the other Parties 
that the arbitral tribunal has been suspended, terminated or 
its authority has lapsed pursuant to Paragraph 1. 
 
 
224
 
SECTION D 
 
Implementation Provisions 
 
Article 15 
Implementation 
 
1. 
Where an arbitral tribunal finds that the Responding 
Party has failed to carry out its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Responding Party shall comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Within 30 days of the date of the presentation of the 
arbitral tribunal’s final report to the Parties to the dispute, the 
Responding Party shall notify the Complaining Party: 
 
(a) 
of its intentions with respect to implementation, 
including an indication of possible actions it may 
take to comply with the obligation in Paragraph 1; 
 
(b) 
whether such implementation can take place 
immediately; and 
 
(c) 
if such implementation cannot take place 
immediately, the reasonable period of time the 
Responding Party would need to implement. 
 
3. 
If it is impracticable to comply immediately with the 
obligation in Paragraph 1, the Responding Party shall have a 
reasonable period of time to do so. 
 
4. 
If a reasonable period of time is required, it shall, 
whenever possible, be mutually agreed by the Parties to the 
dispute. Where the Parties to the dispute are unable to agree 
on the reasonable period of time within 45 days of the date of 
the presentation of the arbitral tribunal’s final report to the 
Parties to the dispute, any Party to the dispute may request 
that the chair of the arbitral tribunal determine the reasonable 
 
 
225
period of time. Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise 
agree, such requests shall be made no later than 120 days 
from the date of the presentation of the arbitral tribunal’s final 
report to the Parties to the dispute. 
 
5. 
Where a request is made pursuant to Paragraph 4, the 
chair of the arbitral tribunal shall present the Parties to the 
dispute with a report containing a determination of the 
reasonable period of time and the reasons for such 
determination within 45 days of the date of the request. 
 
6. 
As a guideline, the reasonable period of time 
determined by the chair of the arbitral tribunal should not 
exceed 15 months from the date of the presentation of the 
arbitral tribunal’s final report to the Parties to the dispute. 
However, such reasonable period of time may be shorter or 
longer, depending upon the particular circumstances. 
 
Article 16 
Compliance Review 
 
1. 
Where the Parties to the dispute disagree on the 
existence or consistency with this Agreement of measures 
taken to comply with the obligation in Article 15.1 
(Implementation), such dispute shall be decided through 
recourse to an arbitral tribunal re-convened for this purpose 
(Compliance Review Tribunal).3 Unless otherwise specified 
in this Chapter, a Compliance Review Tribunal may be 
convened at the request of any Party to the dispute. 
 
2. 
Such request may only be made after the earlier of: 
 
(a) 
the expiry of the reasonable period of time; or 
 
(b) 
a notification to the Complaining Party by the 
Responding Party that it has complied with the 
obligation in Article 15.1 (Implementation). 
                                                 
3  Consultations under Article 6 (Consultations) are not required for these procedures. 
 
 
226
 
3. 
A Compliance Review Tribunal shall make an objective 
assessment of the matter before it, including an objective 
assessment of: 
 
(a) 
the factual aspects of any implementation action 
taken by the Responding Party; and 
 
(b) 
whether the Responding Party has complied with 
the obligation in Article 15.1 (Implementation). 
 
4. 
The Compliance Review Tribunal shall set out in its 
report: 
 
(a) 
a descriptive section summarising the arguments 
of the Parties to the dispute and Third Parties; 
 
(b) 
its findings on the factual aspects of the case; 
and 
 
(c) 
its findings on whether the Responding Party has 
complied with the obligation in Article 15.1 
(Implementation). 
 
5. 
The Compliance Review Tribunal shall, where possible, 
provide its interim report to the Parties to the dispute within 
75 days of the date it re-convenes, and its final report 15 
days thereafter. When the Compliance Review Tribunal 
considers that it cannot provide either report within the 
relevant timeframe, it shall inform the Parties to the dispute 
in writing of the reasons for the delay together with an 
estimate of the period within which it will submit the report. 
 
6. 
Where an arbitral tribunal is requested to re-convene 
pursuant to Paragraph 1, it shall re-convene within 15 days 
of the date of the request. The period from the date of the 
request for the arbitral tribunal to re-convene to the 
submission of its final report shall not exceed 120 days, 
unless Article 11.12 (Establishment and Re-convening of 
 
 
227
Arbitral Tribunals) applies or the Parties to the dispute 
otherwise agree. 
 
Article 17 
Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or other 
Obligations 
 
1. 
Compensation and the suspension of concessions or 
other obligations are temporary measures available in the 
event that the Responding Party does not comply with its 
obligation under Article 15.1 (Implementation). However, 
neither compensation nor the suspension of concessions or 
other obligations is preferred to compliance with the 
obligation 
under 
Article 
15.1 
(Implementation). 
Compensation is voluntary and, if granted, shall be 
consistent with this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Where either of the following circumstances exists:  
 
(a) 
the 
Responding 
Party 
has 
notified 
the 
Complaining Party that it does not intend to 
comply with the obligation in Article 15.1 
(Implementation); or 
 
(b) 
a failure to comply with the obligation in Article 
15.1 (Implementation) has been established in 
accordance with Article 16 (Compliance Review), 
 
the Responding Party shall, if so requested by the 
Complaining Party, enter into negotiations with a view to 
developing mutually acceptable compensation. 
 
3. 
If no satisfactory compensation has been agreed within 
30 days of the date of a request made under Paragraph 2, 
the Complaining Party may at any time thereafter notify the 
Responding Party and the other Parties that it intends to 
suspend the application to the Responding Party of 
concessions or other obligations equivalent to the level of 
nullification and impairment, and shall have the right to begin 
 
 
228
suspending concessions or other obligations 30 days after 
the date of receipt of the notification. 
 
4. 
The right to suspend concessions or other obligations 
arising under Paragraph 3 shall not be exercised where: 
 
(a) 
a review is being undertaken pursuant to 
Paragraph 8; or 
 
(b) 
a mutually agreed solution has been reached. 
 
5. 
A notification made under Paragraph 3 shall specify the 
level 
of 
concessions 
or 
other 
obligations 
that 
the 
Complaining Party proposes to suspend, and the relevant 
Chapter and sector(s) which the concessions or other 
obligations are related to. 
 
6. 
In considering what concessions or other obligations to 
suspend, the Complaining Party shall apply the following 
principles: 
 
(a) 
the Complaining Party should first seek to 
suspend concessions or other obligations in the 
same sector or sectors as that affected by the 
measure; and 
 
(b) 
the Complaining Party may suspend concessions 
or other obligations in other sectors it if considers 
that it is not practicable or effective to suspend 
concessions or other obligations in the same 
sector. 
 
7. 
The level of suspending concessions or other 
obligations shall be equivalent to the level of nullification and 
impairment. 
 
8. 
Within 30 days from the date of receipt of a notification 
made under Paragraph 3, if the Responding Party objects to 
the level of suspension proposed or considers that the 
 
 
229
principles set forth in Paragraph 6 have not been followed, 
the Responding Party may request the arbitral tribunal to re-
convene to make findings on the matter. The arbitral tribunal 
shall provide its assessment to the Parties to the dispute 
within 30 days of the date it re-convenes. Where an arbitral 
tribunal is requested to re-convene pursuant to this 
Paragraph, it shall re-convene within 15 days of the date of 
the request, unless Article 11.12 (Establishment and Re-
convening of Arbitral Tribunals) applies. 
 
9. 
The suspension of concessions or other obligations 
shall be temporary and shall only be applied until such time 
as the obligation in Article 15.1 (Implementation) has been 
complied with or a mutually satisfactory solution is reached. 
 
10. 
Where the right to suspend concessions or other 
obligations has been exercised under this Article, if the 
Responding Party considers that: 
 
(a) 
the level of concessions or other obligations 
suspended by the Complaining Party is not 
equivalent to the level of the nullification and 
impairment; or 
 
(b) 
it has complied with the obligation in Article 15.1 
(Implementation), 
 
it may request the arbitral tribunal to re-convene to examine 
the matter.4 
 
11. 
Where the arbitral tribunal re-convenes pursuant to 
Paragraph 10(a), Paragraph 8 shall apply. Where the arbitral 
tribunal re-convenes pursuant to Paragraph 10(b), Article 
16.3 to 16.5 (Compliance Review) shall apply. 
 
                                                 
4  Where a Compliance Review Tribunal determines that measures taken to comply 
are inconsistent with this Agreement, it may also, on request, assess whether the 
level of any existing suspension of concessions is still appropriate and, if not, assess 
an appropriate level. 
 
 
230
SECTION E 
 
Final Provisions 
 
Article 18 
Special and Differential Treatment Involving Newer 
ASEAN Member States 
 
1. 
At all stages of the determination of the causes of a 
dispute and of dispute settlement procedures involving 
newer ASEAN Member States, particular sympathetic 
consideration shall be given to the special situation of newer 
ASEAN Member States. In this regard, Parties shall exercise 
due restraint in raising matters under these procedures 
involving a least-developed country Party. If nullification or 
impairment is found to result from a measure taken by a 
least-developed country Party, a Complaining Party shall 
exercise due restraint regarding matters covered under 
Article 17 (Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or 
other Obligations) or other obligations pursuant to these 
procedures. 
 
2. 
Where one or more of the Parties to a dispute is a 
newer ASEAN Member State, the arbitral tribunal's reports 
shall explicitly indicate the form in which account has been 
taken of relevant provisions on special and differential 
treatment for a newer ASEAN Member State that form part of 
this Agreement which have been raised by the newer 
ASEAN Member State in the course of the dispute 
settlement procedures. 
 
Article 19 
Expenses 
 
1. 
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, each 
Party to a dispute shall bear the costs of its appointed 
arbitrator and its own expenses and legal costs. 
 
 
 
231
2. 
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
costs of the chair of the arbitral tribunal and other expenses 
associated with the conduct of its proceedings shall be borne 
in equal parts by the Parties to the dispute. 
 
Article 20 
Contact Points 
 
1. 
Each Party shall designate a contact point for this 
Chapter and shall notify the other Parties of the details of this 
contact point within 30 days of the entry into force of this 
Agreement. Each Party shall notify the other Parties of any 
change to its contact point. 
 
2. 
Any request, written submission or other document 
relating to any proceedings pursuant to this Chapter shall be 
delivered to the relevant Party or Parties through their 
designated contact points who shall provide confirmation of 
receipt of such documents in writing. 
 
Article 21 
Language 
 
1. 
All proceedings pursuant to this Chapter shall be 
conducted in the English language. 
 
2. 
Any document submitted for use in any proceedings 
pursuant to this Chapter shall be in the English language. If 
any original document is not in the English language, a Party 
submitting it for use in the proceedings shall provide an 
English language translation of that document. 
