 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 2 
 
SECTION B 
 
ANNEX ON OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES  
TO CHAPTER 3 (RULES OF ORIGIN) 
 
 
 
ANNEX ON OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES 
 
For the purpose of implementing Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin), the 
following operational procedures on the issuance and verification of 
Certificates of Origin and other related administrative matters shall be 
observed by each Party. 
 
AUTHORITIES  
 
Rule 1 
 
The Certificate of Origin shall be issued by an Issuing Authority/Body 
of the exporting Party. Details of the Issuing Authorities/Bodies shall 
be notified by each Party, through the ASEAN Secretariat, prior to 
the entry into force of this Agreement. Any subsequent changes shall 
be promptly notified by each Party, through the ASEAN Secretariat. 
 
Rule 2 
 
1. 
The Issuing Authorities/Bodies 
shall provide the names, 
addresses, specimen signatures and specimens of the impressions of 
official seals of their respective Issuing Authorities/Bodies to the other 
Parties, 
through 
the 
ASEAN 
Secretariat. 
The 
Issuing 
Authorities/Bodies shall submit electronically to the ASEAN Secretariat 
the above information and specimens for dissemination to the other 
Parties. Any subsequent changes shall be promptly notified through 
the ASEAN Secretariat. 
 
2. 
Any Certificate of Origin issued by a person not included in the 
list may not be honoured by the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party. 
 
Rule 3 
 
For the purpose of determining originating status, the Issuing 
Authorities/Bodies shall have the right to call for supporting 
documentary evidence and/or other relevant information to carry out 
any check considered appropriate in accordance with respective 
domestic laws, regulations and administrative practices. 
 
 
 
 
APPLICATIONS  
 
Rule 4 
 
1. 
The manufacturer, producer, or exporter of the good or its 
authorised representative shall apply in writing or by electronic means 
to an Issuing Authority/Body, in accordance with the exporting Party’s 
domestic laws, regulations and the Issuing Authority’s/Body’s 
procedures, requesting a pre-exportation examination of the origin of 
the good to be exported. 
 
2. 
The result of the examination, subject to review periodically or 
whenever 
appropriate, 
shall 
be 
accepted 
as the supporting 
evidence in issuing a Certificate of Origin for the good to be exported 
thereafter. 
 
3. 
Pre-exportation examination need not apply to a good for 
which, by its nature, origin can be easily determined. 
 
Rule 5 
 
The manufacturer, producer, or exporter of the good or its authorised 
representative shall apply for the Certificate of Origin by providing 
appropriate supporting documents and other relevant information, 
proving that the good to be exported qualifies as originating. 
 
PRE-EXPORTATION EXAMINATION  
 
Rule 6 
 
The Issuing Authority/Body shall, to the best of its competence and 
ability, carry out proper examination, in accordance with the domestic 
laws and regulations of the exporting Party or the procedures of the 
Issuing Authority/Body, upon each application for the Certificate of 
Origin to ensure that: 
 
(i) 
the application and the Certificate of Origin are duly 
completed and signed by the authorised signatory; 
 
(ii) 
the good is an originating good in accordance with Article 2 
(Originating Goods) of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin); 
 
(iii) other statements in the Certificate of Origin correspond to 
appropriate supporting documents and other relevant 
information; and 
 
 
(iv) information in the List of Data Requirements is provided for 
the goods being exported. 
 
ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
Rule 7 
 
1. 
The format of the Certificate of Origin is to be determined by the 
Parties and it must contain the data requirements listed in the List of 
Data Requirements. 
 
2. 
The Certificate of Origin shall comprise one (1) original and two 
(2) copies. 
 
3. 
The Certificate of Origin shall: 
 
(i) 
be in hardcopy; 
 
(ii) 
bear a unique reference number separately given by each 
place or office of issuance; 
 
(iii) be in the English language; and 
 
(iv) bear an authorised signature and official seal of the Issuing 
Authority/Body. The signature and official seal may be 
applied electronically. 
 
4. 
The original Certificate of Origin shall be forwarded by the 
exporter to the importer for submission to the Customs Authority of the 
importing Party. Copies shall be retained by the Issuing Authority/Body 
and the exporter. 
 
5. 
Multiple goods declared on the same Certificate of Origin shall be 
allowed, provided that each good is originating in its own right. 
 
Rule 8 
 
To implement Article 2 (Originating Goods) of Chapter 3 (Rules of 
Origin), the Certificate of Origin issued by the Issuing Authority/Body 
shall specify the relevant origin conferring criteria. 
 
 
 
 
Rule 9 
 
Neither erasures nor superimpositions shall be allowed on the 
Certificate of Origin. Any alteration shall be made by striking out the 
erroneous 
material 
and making 
any addition required. Such 
alterations shall be approved by a person authorised to sign the 
Certificate of Origin 
and certified by the appropriate Issuing 
Authority/Body. Unused spaces shall be crossed out to prevent any 
subsequent addition. 
 
Rule 10 
 
1. 
The Certificate of Origin shall be issued as near as possible to, 
but no later than three (3) working days after, the date of exportation. 
 
2. 
Where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued as provided for 
in Paragraph 1 due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid 
causes, the Certificate of Origin may be issued retroactively, but no 
longer than 12 months from the date of exportation, bearing the words 
“ISSUED RETROACTIVELY”. 
 
3. 
An Issuing Authority/Body of an intermediate Party shall issue a 
back-to-back Certificate of Origin, if an application is made by the 
exporter while the good is passing through that intermediate Party, 
provided that: 
 
(i) 
a valid original Certificate of Origin or its certified true copy is 
presented; 
 
(ii) 
the period of validity of the back-to-back Certificate of Origin 
does not exceed the period of validity of the original 
Certificate of Origin; 
 
(iii) the consignment which is to be re-exported using the back-
to-back Certificate of Origin does not undergo any further 
processing in the intermediate Party, except for repacking or 
logistics activities such as unloading, reloading, storing, or 
any other operations necessary to preserve them in good 
condition or to transport them to the importing Party; 
 
(iv) the back-to-back Certificate of Origin contains relevant 
information from the original Certificate of Origin in 
accordance with the List of Data Requirements; and 
 
(v) 
the verification procedures in Rules 17 and 18 shall also 
apply to the back-to-back Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 11 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the 
manufacturer, producer, exporter or its authorised representative may 
apply to the Issuing Authority/Body for a certified true copy of the 
original Certificate of Origin. The copy shall be made on the basis of 
the export documents in their possession and bear the words 
“CERTIFIED TRUE COPY”. This copy shall bear the date of issuance 
of the original Certificate of Origin. The certified true copy of a 
Certificate of Origin shall be issued no longer than 12 months from the 
date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin. 
 
PRESENTATION  
 
Rule 12 
 
1. 
For the purpose of claiming preferential tariff treatment, the 
importer shall submit to the Customs Authority at the time of import 
declaration the Certificate of Origin and other documents as required, 
in accordance with the procedures of the Customs Authority or 
domestic laws and regulations of the importing Party. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, a Party may elect not to require 
the submission of the Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 13 
 
The following time limits for the presentation of the Certificate of Origin 
shall be observed: 
 
(i)  
the Certificate of Origin shall be valid for a period of 12 
months from the date of issue and must be submitted to the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party within that period; 
 
(ii) 
where the Certificate of Origin is submitted to the Customs 
Authority of the importing Party after the expiration of the 
time limit for its submission, such Certificate of Origin shall 
still be accepted, subject to the importing Party’s domestic 
laws, regulations or administrative practices, when failure to 
observe the time limit results from force majeure or other 
valid causes beyond the control of the importer and/or 
exporter; and 
 
(iii)  the Customs Authority of the importing Party may accept 
such Certificate of Origin, provided that the  goods have 
been imported before the expiration of the time limit of that 
 
Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 14 
 
The Certificate of Origin shall not be required for: 
 
(i)  
goods 
originating 
in 
the 
exporting 
Party 
and 
not 
exceeding US$200.00 FOB value or such higher amount 
specified in the importing Party’s domestic laws, regulations 
or administrative practices; or 
 
(ii)  
goods sent through the post not exceeding US$200.00 FOB 
value or such higher amount specified in the importing 
Party’s 
domestic 
laws, regulations 
or administrative 
practices, 
 
provided that the importation does not form part of one or more 
importations that may reasonably be considered to have been 
undertaken or arranged for the purpose of avoiding the submission of 
the Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 15 
 
1. 
Where the origin of the good is not in doubt, the discovery of 
minor transcription errors or discrepancies in documentation shall not 
ipso facto invalidate the Certificate of Origin, if it does in fact 
correspond to the goods submitted. 
 
2. 
For multiple goods declared under the same Certificate of Origin, 
a problem encountered with one of the goods listed shall not affect or 
delay the granting of preferential tariff treatment and customs 
clearance of the remaining goods listed in the Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 16 
 
1. 
Each Party shall require that the Issuing Authority/Body, 
manufacturer, producer, exporter, importer, and their authorised 
representatives maintain for a period of not less than three years after 
the date of exportation or importation, as the case may be, all 
records relating to that exportation or importation which are necessary 
to demonstrate that the good for which a claim for preferential tariff 
treatment was made qualifies for preferential tariff treatment. Such 
records may be in electronic form. 
 
2. 
Information relating to the validity of the Certificate of Origin shall 
be furnished upon request of the importing Party by an official 
 
authorised to sign the Certificate of Origin and certified by the 
appropriate Issuing Authority/Body. 
 
3. 
Any information communicated between the Parties concerned 
shall be treated as confidential and shall be used for the validation of 
Certificates of Origin purposes only.1 
 
ORIGIN VERIFICATION 
 
Rule 17 
 
1. 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party may verify the 
eligibility of a good for preferential tariff treatment in accordance with 
its domestic laws, regulations or administrative practices. 
 
2. 
If the Customs Authority of the importing Party has reasonable 
doubts as to the authenticity or accuracy of the information included in 
the Certificate of Origin or other documentary evidence, it may: 
 
(i)  
institute retroactive checking measures to establish the 
validity of the Certificate of Origin or other documentary 
evidence of origin; 
 
(ii)  
request information from the relevant importer of a good 
for which preferential tariff treatment was claimed; and 
 
(iii)  issue written requests to the Issuing Authority/Body of the 
exporting Party for information from the exporter or 
producer. 
 
3. 
A request for information in accordance with Paragraph 2(iii) 
shall not preclude the use of the verification visit provided for in Rule 
18. 
 
4. 
The recipient of a request for information under Paragraph 2 shall 
provide the information requested within a period of 90 days from the 
date the written request is made. 
 
5. 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party shall provide 
written advice as to whether the goods are eligible for preferential 
tariff treatment to all the relevant parties within 60 days from receipt of 
information necessary to make a decision. 
 
                                                           
1 This Paragraph shall be read with reference to the confidentiality provisions of Article 5 
(Confidentiality) of Chapter 18 (Final Provisions). 
 
VERIFICATION VISIT 
 
Rule 18 
 
1. 
If the Customs Authority of the importing Party wishes to 
undertake a verification visit, it shall issue a written request to the 
Issuing Authority/Body of the exporting Party at least 30 days in 
advance of the proposed verification visit. 
 
2. 
If the Issuing Authority/Body of the exporting Party is not a 
government agency, the Customs Authority of the importing Party shall 
notify the Customs Authority of the exporting Party of the written 
request to undertake the verification visit. 
 
3. 
The written request referred to in Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall at a 
minimum include: 
 
(i) 
the identity of the Customs Authority issuing the request; 
 
(ii) 
the name of the exporter or the producer of the exporting 
Party whose good is subject to the verification visit; 
 
(iii) the date the written request is made; 
 
(iv) the proposed date and place of the visit; 
 
(v) 
the objective and scope of the proposed visit, including 
specific reference to the good subject to the verification; and 
 
(vi) the names and titles of the officials of the Customs Authority 
or other relevant authorities of the  importing  Party  who  
will  participate  in  the visit. 
 
4. 
The Issuing Authority/Body of the exporting Party shall notify the 
exporter or producer of the intended verification visit by the 
Customs Authority or other relevant authorities of the importing Party 
and request the exporter or producer to: 
 
(i) 
permit the Customs Authority or other relevant authorities of 
the importing Party to visit their premises or factory; and 
 
(ii) 
provide information  relating to the origin of the good. 
 
5.  
The Issuing Authority/Body shall advise the exporter or producer 
that, should they fail to respond by a specified date, preferential tariff 
treatment may be denied. 
 
6. 
The Issuing Authority/Body of the exporting Party shall advise the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party within 30 days of the date of 
the written request from the Customs Authority of the importing Party 
whether the exporter or producer has agreed to the request for a 
verification visit. 
 
7. 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party shall not visit the 
premises or factory of any exporter or producer in the territory of the 
exporting Party without written prior consent from the exporter or 
producer. 
 
8. 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party shall complete any 
action to verify eligibility for preferential tariff treatment and make a 
decision within 150 days of the date of the request to the Issuing 
Authority/Body under Paragraph 1. The Customs Authority of the 
importing Party shall provide written advice as to whether goods are 
eligible for preferential tariff treatment to the relevant parties within ten 
days of the decision being made. 
 
9. 
Parties shall maintain the confidentiality of information classified 
as confidential collected in the process of verification and shall 
protect that information from disclosure that could prejudice the 
competitive position of the person who provided the information. The 
information classified as confidential may only be disclosed to those 
authorities responsible for the administration and enforcement of 
origin determination.2 
 
SUSPENSION OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT 
 
Rule 19 
 
1. 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party may suspend 
preferential tariff treatment to a good that is the subject of an origin 
verification action under this Annex for the duration of that action or 
any part thereof. 
 
2. 
The importing Party may release the goods to the importer 
subject to any administrative measures deemed necessary, provided 
that they are not held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction 
and there is no suspicion of fraud. 
 
3. 
In the event that a determination is made by the Customs 
Authority of the importing Party that the good qualifies as an originating 
                                                           
2 This Paragraph shall be read with reference to the confidentiality provisions of Article 5 
(Confidentiality) of Chapter 18 (Final Provisions). 
 
good of the exporting Party, any suspended preferential tariff treatment 
shall be reinstated. 
 
Rule 20 
 
When the destination of any goods exported to a specified Party is 
changed after their export from the exporting Party, but before 
clearance by the importing Party, the exporter, manufacturer, 
producer or its authorised representative shall apply in writing to the 
Issuing Authority/Body for a new Certificate of Origin for the goods 
changing destination. The application shall include the original 
Certificate of Origin relating to the goods. 
 
Rule 21 
 
For the purpose of implementing Article 14 (Direct Consignment) of 
Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) where transportation is effected through 
the territory of any non- Party, the following shall be provided to the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party: 
 
(i)  
a through Bill of Lading issued in the exporting Party; 
 
(ii)  
a Certificate of Origin issued by the relevant Issuing 
Authority/Body of the exporting Party, unless not required 
pursuant to Rule 12.2 or Rule 14; 
 
(iii)  a copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the 
good; and 
 
(iv)  supporting documents in evidence that the requirements of 
Article 14 (Direct Consignment) of  Chapter 3 (Rules of 
Origin) have been complied with. 
 
Rule 22 
 
1. 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party may accept 
Certificates of Origin in cases where the sales invoice is issued either 
by a company located in a third country or by an exporter for the 
account of that company, provided that the goods meet the 
requirements of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin). 
 
2. 
The words “SUBJECT OF THIRD-PARTY INVOICE (name of 
company using the invoice)” shall appear on the Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
 
 
ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS 
 
Rule 23 
 
When it is suspected that fraudulent acts in connection with the 
Certificate of Origin have been committed, the government authorities 
concerned shall co-operate in the action to be taken in the respective 
Party against the persons involved, in accordance with the Party’s 
respective laws and regulations. 
 
GOODS IN TRANSPORT OR STORAGE 
 
Rule 24 
 
Originating goods which are in the process of being transported from 
the exporting Party to the importing Party, or which are in temporary 
storage in a bonded area in the importing Party, should be accorded 
preferential tariff treatment if they are imported into the importing 
Party on or after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, subject 
to the submission of a Certificate of Origin issued retroactively to the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party and subject to domestic 
laws, regulations or administrative practices of the importing Party. 
 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES  
 
Rule 253 
 
1. 
In the case of a dispute concerning origin determination, 
classification of goods or other matters, the government authorities 
concerned in the importing and exporting Parties shall consult each 
other with a view to resolving the dispute, and the result shall be 
reported to the other Parties for information. 
 
2. 
If no settlement can be reached bilaterally, the dispute may be 
referred to the ROO Sub-Committee established pursuant to Article 18 
(Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin) of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin). 
 
                                                           
3  This Rule is without prejudice to a Party’s rights under Chapter 17 (Consultations and 
Dispute Settlement). 
