 
 
144
 
CHAPTER 11 
 
INVESTMENT 
 
SECTION A 
 
Article 1 
Scope 
 
1. 
This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or 
maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a) 
investors of any other Party; and 
 
(b) 
covered investments. 
 
2. 
This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
(a) 
government procurement; 
 
(b) 
subsidies or grants provided by a Party; and 
 
(c) 
services supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority by the relevant body or authority of a 
Party. For the purposes of this Chapter, a service 
supplied 
in 
the 
exercise 
of 
governmental 
authority means any service which is supplied 
neither on a commercial basis nor in competition 
with one or more service suppliers. 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
covered investment means with respect to a 
Party, an investment in its territory of an investor 
of another Party, in existence as of the date of 
 
 
145
entry into force of this Agreement or established, 
acquired or expanded thereafter, and which, 
where applicable, has been admitted1 by the host 
Party, subject to its relevant laws, regulations and 
policies; 
 
(b) 
freely usable currency means a freely usable 
currency as determined by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with the IMF 
Articles of Agreement and any amendments 
thereto; 
 
(c) 
investment2 means every kind of asset owned or 
controlled by an investor, including but not limited 
to the following: 
 
(i) 
movable and immovable property and other 
property rights such as mortgages, liens or 
pledges; 
 
(ii) 
shares, stocks, bonds and debentures and 
any other forms of participation in a juridical 
person and rights derived therefrom; 
 
(iii) 
intellectual 
property 
rights 
which 
are 
recognised pursuant to the laws and 
regulations of each Party and goodwill; 
                                                 
1  For greater certainty: 
(a) in the case of Thailand, protection under this Chapter shall be accorded to 
covered investments which have been specifically approved in writing for 
protection by the competent authorities; 
(b) in the case of Viet Nam, “has been admitted” means “has been specifically 
registered or approved in writing, as the case may be”. 
 
2  The term “investment” does not include an order or judgment entered in a judicial or 
administrative action. 
 
 
 
146
 
(iv) 
claims to money or to any contractual 
performance related to a business and 
having financial value3; 
 
(v) 
rights under contracts, including turnkey, 
construction, management, production or 
revenue-sharing contracts; and 
 
(vi) 
business concessions required to conduct 
economic activity and having financial 
value conferred by law or under a contract, 
including any concession to search for, 
cultivate, 
extract 
or 
exploit 
natural 
resources. 
 
For the purpose of the definition of investment in 
this Article, returns that are invested shall be 
treated as investments and any alteration of the 
form in which assets are invested or reinvested 
shall not affect their character as investments; 
 
(d) 
investor of a Party means a natural person of a 
Party or a juridical person of a Party that seeks to 
make4, is making, or has made an investment in 
the territory of another Party; 
 
(e) 
juridical 
person 
means 
any 
entity 
duly 
constituted 
or 
otherwise 
organised 
under 
applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, 
                                                 
3  For greater certainty, investment does not mean claims to money that arise solely 
from: 
(a) commercial contracts for sale of goods or services; or 
(b) the extension of credit in connection with such commercial contracts. 
 
4  For greater certainty, the Parties understand that an investor that “seeks to make” 
an investment refers to an investor of another Party that has taken active steps to 
make an investment. Where a notification or approval process is required for making 
an investment, an investor that “seeks to make” an investment refers to an investor of 
another Party that has initiated such notification or approval process. 
 
 
 
 
147
and whether privately-owned or governmentally-
owned, 
including 
any 
corporation, 
trust, 
partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship, 
association or similar organisation; 
 
(f) 
juridical person of a Party means a juridical 
person constituted or organised under the law of 
that Party; 
 
(g) 
measure means any measure by a Party, 
whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, 
procedure, decision, administrative action, or any 
other form; 
 
(h) 
measures by a Party includes measures taken 
by: 
 
(i) 
central, regional, or local governments and 
authorities; and 
 
(ii) 
non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
powers delegated by central, regional, or 
local governments or authorities; 
 
(i) 
natural person of a Party means any natural 
person possessing the nationality or citizenship 
of, or right of permanent residence in that Party in 
accordance with its laws and regulations; and 
 
(j) 
return means an amount yielded by or derived 
from an investment, including profits, dividends, 
interest, capital gains, royalties and all other 
lawful income. 
 
Article 3 
Relation to other Chapters 
 
1. 
This Chapter does not apply to measures adopted or 
maintained by a Party to the extent that they are covered by 
 
 
148
Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) or Chapter 9 (Movement of 
Natural Persons). 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, Article 6 (Treatment of 
Investment), Article 7 (Compensation for Losses), Article 8 
(Transfers), Article 9 (Expropriation and Compensation), 
Article 10 (Subrogation) and Section B (Investment Disputes 
between a Party and an Investor) shall apply, mutatis 
mutandis, to any measure affecting the supply of service by 
a service supplier of a Party through commercial presence in 
the territory of any one of the other Parties pursuant to 
Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), but only to the extent that any 
such measures relate to a covered investment and an 
obligation under this Chapter, regardless of whether such a 
service sector is scheduled in a Party's schedule of specific 
services commitments in Annex 3 (Schedules of Specific 
Services Commitments). 
 
Article 4 
National Treatment5 
 
Each Party shall accord to investors of another Party, and to 
covered investments, in relation to the establishment, 
acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, 
liquidation, sale, transfer or other disposition of investments, 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords, in like 
circumstances, to its own investors and their investments. 
 
Article 5 
Prohibition of Performance Requirements 
 
No Party shall apply in connection with the establishment, 
acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, or 
sale or other disposition of an investment of an investor of a 
Party in its territory any measure which is inconsistent with 
the Agreement on Trade-Related Investment Measures in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
                                                 
5  The application of this Article is subject to Article 16 (Work Programme). 
 
 
149
 
Article 6 
Treatment of Investment 
 
1. 
Each Party shall accord to covered investments fair 
and equitable treatment and full protection and security. 
 
2. 
For greater certainty6: 
 
(a) 
fair and equitable treatment requires each Party 
not to deny justice in any legal or administrative 
proceedings; 
 
(b) 
full protection and security requires each Party to 
take such measures as may be reasonably 
necessary to ensure the protection and security 
of the covered investment; and 
 
(c) 
the concepts of “fair and equitable treatment” and 
“full protection and security” do not require 
treatment in addition to or beyond that which is 
required under customary international law, and 
do not create additional substantive rights. 
 
3. 
A determination that there has been a breach of 
another provision of this Agreement, or of a separate 
international agreement, does not establish that there has 
been a breach of this Article. 
 
Article 7 
Compensation for Losses 
 
Each Party shall accord to investors of another Party, and to 
covered investments, with respect to measures it adopts or 
maintains relating to losses suffered by investments in its 
territory owing to armed conflict, civil strife or state of 
                                                 
6  In the case of Indonesia, only Paragraph 2(a) and (b) shall apply where Indonesia 
is the Party according treatment under this Article. 
 
 
150
emergency, treatment no less favourable than that it accords, 
in like circumstances, to: 
 
(a) 
its own investors and their investments; and 
 
(b) 
investors of any other Party or non-Party and 
their investments. 
 
Article 8 
Transfers 
 
1. 
Each Party shall allow all transfers relating to a 
covered investment to be made freely and without delay into 
and out of its territory. Such transfers include: 
 
(a) 
contributions to capital, including the initial 
contribution; 
 
(b) 
profits, capital gains, dividends, royalties, licence 
fees, technical assistance and technical and 
management fees, interest and other current 
income accruing from any covered investment; 
 
(c) 
proceeds from the total or partial sale or 
liquidation of any covered investment; 
 
(d) 
payments made under a contract, including a 
loan agreement; 
 
(e) 
payments 
made 
pursuant 
to 
Article 
7 
(Compensation 
for 
Losses) 
and 
Article 
9 
(Expropriation and Compensation); 
 
(f) 
payments arising out of the settlement of a 
dispute by any means including adjudication, 
arbitration or the agreement of the parties to the 
dispute; and 
 
 
 
151
(g) 
earnings and other remuneration of personnel 
engaged from abroad in connection with that 
investment. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall allow such transfers relating to a 
covered investment to be made in a freely usable currency at 
the market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding Paragraphs 1 and 2, a Party may 
prevent or delay a transfer through the equitable, non-
discriminatory, and good faith application of its laws and 
regulations relating to: 
 
(a) 
bankruptcy, insolvency, or the protection of the 
rights of creditors; 
 
(b) 
issuing, trading, or dealing in securities, futures, 
options, or derivatives; 
 
(c) 
criminal or penal offences and the recovery of the 
proceeds of crime; 
 
(d) 
financial reporting or record keeping of transfers 
when necessary to assist law enforcement or 
financial regulatory authorities; 
 
(e) 
ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in 
judicial or administrative proceedings; 
 
(f) 
taxation; 
 
(g) 
social security, public retirement, or compulsory 
savings schemes; and 
 
(h) 
severance entitlements of employees. 
 
4. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and 
obligations of each Party as a member of the International 
Monetary Fund under the IMF Articles of Agreement, 
 
 
152
including the use of exchange actions which are in 
conformity with the IMF Articles of Agreement, provided that 
a Party shall not impose restrictions on any capital 
transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments 
under this Chapter regarding such transactions, except 
under Article 4 (Measures to Safeguard the Balance of 
Payments) 
of 
Chapter 
15 
(General 
Provisions 
and 
Exceptions) or at the request of the International Monetary 
Fund. 
 
Article 9 
Expropriation and Compensation7 
 
1. 
A Party shall not expropriate or nationalise a covered 
investment either directly or through measures equivalent to 
expropriation or nationalisation (expropriation), except: 
 
(a) 
for a public purpose8; 
 
(b) 
in a non-discriminatory manner; 
 
(c) 
on payment of prompt, adequate, and effective 
compensation; and 
 
(d) 
in accordance with due process of law. 
 
2. 
The compensation referred to in Paragraph 1(c) shall: 
 
(a) 
be paid without delay9; 
 
                                                 
7  This Article shall be interpreted in accordance with this Chapter’s Annex on 
Expropriation and Compensation. 
 
8   For the avoidance of doubt, where Malaysia is the expropriating Party, any 
measure of expropriation relating to land shall be for the purposes as set out in the 
domestic laws and regulations relating to land acquisition. 
 
9  The Parties understand that there may be legal and administrative processes that 
need to be observed before payment can be made. 
 
 
 
153
(b) 
be equivalent to the fair market value of the 
expropriated investment at the time when or 
immediately before the expropriation was publicly 
announced10, or when the expropriation occurred, 
whichever is applicable; 
 
(c) 
not reflect any change in value because the 
intended expropriation had become known 
earlier; and 
 
(d) 
be effectively realisable and freely transferable 
between the territories of the Parties. 
 
3. 
The compensation referred to in Paragraph 1(c) shall 
include appropriate interest. The compensation, including 
any accrued interest, shall be payable either in the currency 
of the expropriating Party, or if requested by the investor, in a 
freely usable currency. 
 
4. 
If an investor requests payment in a freely useable 
currency, the compensation referred to in Paragraph 1(c), 
including any accrued interest, shall be converted into the 
currency of payment at the market rate of exchange 
prevailing on the date of payment. 
 
5. 
This Article does not apply to the issuance of 
compulsory licences granted in relation to intellectual 
property rights in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
6. 
Notwithstanding Paragraphs 1 to 4, in the case where 
Singapore or Viet Nam is the expropriating Party, any 
measure of expropriation relating to land, which shall be as 
defined 
in 
the 
existing 
domestic 
legislation 
of 
the 
expropriating Party on the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement, shall be for a purpose and upon payment of 
compensation made in accordance with the aforesaid 
                                                 
10   In the case of the Philippines, the time when or immediately before the 
expropriation was publicly announced refers to the date of filing of the Petition for 
Expropriation. 
 
 
154
legislation. Such compensation shall be subject to any 
subsequent amendments to the aforesaid legislation relating 
to the amount of compensation where such amendments 
follow the general trends in the market value of the land. 
 
Article 10 
Subrogation 
 
1. 
If a Party or an agency of a Party makes a payment to 
an investor of that Party under a guarantee, a contract of 
insurance or other form of indemnity it has granted on non-
commercial risk in respect of an investment, the other Party 
shall recognise the subrogation or transfer of any right or 
claim in respect of such investment. The subrogated or 
transferred right or claim shall not be greater than the original 
right or claim of the investor. 
 
2. 
Where a Party or an agency of a Party has made a 
payment to an investor of that Party and has taken over 
rights and claims of the investor, that investor shall not, 
unless authorised to act on behalf of the Party or the agency 
making the payment, pursue those rights and claims against 
the other Party. 
 
3. 
In any proceeding involving an investment dispute, a 
Party shall not assert, as a defence, counter-claim, right of 
set-off or otherwise, that the investor or the covered 
investment has received or will receive, pursuant to an 
insurance or guarantee contract, indemnification or other 
compensation for all or part of any alleged loss. 
 
Article 11 
Denial of Benefits 
 
1. 
Following notification, a Party may deny the benefits of 
this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
to an investor of another Party that is a juridical 
person of such other Party and to investments of 
 
 
155
that investor if an investor of a non-Party owns or 
controls the juridical person and the juridical 
person has no substantive business operations in 
the territory of the other Party; 
 
(b) 
to an investor of another Party that is a juridical 
person of such other Party and to investments of 
that investor if an investor of the denying Party 
owns or controls the juridical person and the 
juridical person has no substantive business 
operations in the territory of any Party, other than 
the denying Party. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding Paragraph 1 and subject to prior 
notification to and consultation with the relevant Party, 
Thailand may, under its applicable laws and regulations, 
deny the benefits of this Chapter relating to the admission, 
establishment, acquisition and expansion of investments to 
an investor of another Party that is a juridical person of such 
Party and to investments of such an investor where Thailand 
establishes that the juridical person is owned or controlled by 
natural persons or juridical persons of a non-Party or the 
denying Party. 
 
3. 
In the case of Thailand, a juridical person is: 
 
(a) 
owned by natural persons or juridical persons of 
a Party or a non-Party if more than 50 per cent of 
the equity interest in it is beneficially owned by 
such persons; 
 
(b) 
controlled by natural persons or juridical 
persons of a Party or non-Party if such persons 
have the power to name a majority of its directors 
or otherwise to legally direct its actions. 
 
4. 
Following 
notification, 
and 
without 
prejudice 
to 
Paragraph 1, the Philippines may deny the benefits of this 
Chapter to an investor of another Party and to investments of 
 
 
156
that investor, where it establishes that such investor has 
made an investment in breach of the provisions of 
Commonwealth Act No. 108, entitled “An Act to Punish Acts 
of Evasion of Laws on the Nationalization of Certain Rights, 
Franchises or Privileges”, as amended by Presidential 
Decree No. 715, otherwise known as “The Anti-Dummy Law”, 
as may be amended. 
 
Article 12 
Reservations11 
 
1. 
Article 4 (National Treatment), and in the case of Lao 
PDR Article 5 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements), do 
not apply to: 
 
(a) 
any existing measure that does not conform to 
those Articles maintained by a Party at: 
 
(i) 
the central level of government, as set out 
by that Party in its Schedule to List I; 
 
(ii) 
a regional level of government, as set out 
by that Party in its Schedule to List I; or 
 
(iii) 
a local level of government; 
 
(b) 
the continuation or prompt renewal of any 
measure referred to in Subparagraph (a); or 
 
(c) 
an amendment to any measure referred to in 
Subparagraph (a) to the extent that the 
amendment does not decrease the conformity of 
the measure as it existed at the date of entry into 
force of the Party’s Schedule to List I, with Article 
4 (National Treatment), and, in the case of Lao 
PDR Article 5 (Prohibition of Performance 
Requirements). 
                                                 
11  The application of this Article is subject to Article 16 (Work Programme). 
 
 
157
 
2. 
Article 4 (National Treatment), and in the case of Lao 
PDR Article 5 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements), do 
not apply to any measure that a Party adopts or maintains 
with respect to sectors, sub-sectors, or activities, as set out 
in its Schedule to List II. 
 
3. 
Other than pursuant to any procedures for the 
modification of schedules of reservations, a Party may not, 
under any measure adopted after the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement and covered by its Schedule to List II, 
require an investor of another Party, by reason of its 
nationality, to sell or otherwise dispose of an investment 
existing at the time the measure becomes effective. 
 
Article 13 
Transparency 
 
1. 
Each Party shall publish promptly and, except in 
emergency situations, at the latest by the time of their entry 
into force, all relevant measures of general application 
covered by this Chapter. International agreements pertaining 
to or affecting investors or investment activities to which a 
Party is a signatory shall also be published. 
 
2. 
To the extent possible, each Party shall make the 
measures and international agreements of the kind referred 
to in Paragraph 1 available on the internet. 
 
3. 
Where publication referred to in Paragraphs 1 and 2 is 
not practicable, such information12 shall be made otherwise 
publicly available. 
 
4. 
To the extent provided for under its domestic legal 
framework, each Party shall endeavour to provide a 
                                                 
12  For greater certainty, the Parties agree that such information may be published in 
each Party’s chosen language. 
 
 
 
158
reasonable opportunity for comments by interested persons 
on measures referred to in Paragraph 1 before adoption. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate 
communications among the Parties on any matter covered 
by this Chapter. Upon the request of another Party, the 
contact point shall: 
 
(a) 
identify the office or official responsible for the 
relevant matter; and 
 
(b) 
assist 
as 
necessary 
in 
facilitating 
communications with the requesting Party with 
respect to that matter. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall respond within a reasonable period of 
time to all requests by any other Party for specific information 
on: 
 
(a) 
any 
measures 
or 
international 
agreements 
referred to in Paragraph 1; 
 
(b) 
any new, or any changes to existing, measures 
or administrative guidelines which significantly 
affect investors or covered investments, whether 
or not the other Party has been previously 
notified of the new or changed measure or 
administrative guideline. 
 
7. 
Any notification or communication under this Article 
shall be provided to the other Party through the relevant 
contact points in the English language. 
 
8. 
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as requiring a 
Party to provide confidential information, the disclosure of 
which would impede law enforcement, or otherwise be 
contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice 
legitimate commercial interests of particular juridical persons, 
public or private. 
 
 
159
 
9. 
Each Party shall ensure that in its administrative 
proceedings relating to the application of measures referred 
to in Paragraph 1 to particular investors or investments of the 
other Party in specific cases that: 
 
(a) 
to the extent provided under its domestic legal 
framework and where possible, persons of 
another Party that are directly affected by a 
proceeding are provided reasonable notice, when 
a proceeding is initiated; 
 
(b) 
to the extent provided under its domestic legal 
framework, that it endeavours to afford such 
persons with reasonable opportunity to present 
their positions prior to any final administrative 
action, when time, the nature of the proceeding, 
and the public interest permit; and 
 
(c) 
its procedures are in accordance with its laws. 
 
10. 
Each Party shall maintain judicial or administrative 
tribunals or procedures for the purpose of the prompt 
review
13  and, 
where 
warranted, 
correction 
of 
final 
administrative actions regarding matters covered by this 
Chapter. Where such procedures or tribunals are not 
independent of the agency entrusted with the administrative 
action concerned, each Party shall ensure that the tribunals 
or procedures provide for an objective and impartial review. 
 
11. 
Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or 
procedures, the parties to the proceedings are provided with 
the right to: 
 
(a) 
a reasonable opportunity to support or defend 
their respective positions; and 
 
                                                 
13  For avoidance of doubt, the form of “review” shall be as provided for under the 
Party’s law. 
 
 
160
(b) 
a decision in accordance with the Party’s laws. 
 
12. 
Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further 
review as provided in its law, that any decision referred to in 
Paragraph 11(b) shall be implemented in accordance with its 
laws. 
 
Article 14 
Special Formalities and Disclosure of Information 
 
1. 
Nothing in Article 4 (National Treatment) shall be 
construed to prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining a 
measure that prescribes special formalities in connection 
with covered investments, including a requirement that 
covered investments be legally constituted under the laws or 
regulations of the Party, provided that such formalities do not 
substantially impair the protections afforded by a Party to 
investors of another Party and covered investments pursuant 
to this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding Article 4 (National Treatment), a Party 
may require an investor of another Party, or a covered 
investment, 
to 
provide 
information 
concerning 
that 
investment solely for informational or statistical purposes. 
The Party shall protect to the extent possible any confidential 
information which has been provided from any disclosure 
that would prejudice legitimate commercial interests of the 
investor or the covered investment. Nothing in this 
Paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from 
otherwise obtaining or disclosing information in connection 
with the equitable and good faith application of its law. 
 
Article 15 
Special and Differential Treatment for the Newer ASEAN 
Member States 
 
In order to increase the benefits of this Chapter for the newer 
ASEAN Member States, and in accordance with the 
objectives of and the Preamble to this Agreement and 
 
 
161
objectives of Chapter 12 (Economic Co-operation), the 
Parties recognise the importance of according special and 
differential treatment to the newer ASEAN Member States 
under this Chapter, through: 
 
(a)  technical assistance to strengthen their capacity 
in relation to investment policies and promotion, 
including in areas such as human resource 
development; 
 
(b) 
access to information on the investment policies 
of other Parties, business information, relevant 
databases and contact points for investment 
promotion agencies; 
 
(c) 
commitments in areas of interest to the newer 
ASEAN Member States; and 
 
(d) 
recognising that commitments by each newer 
ASEAN Member State may be made in 
accordance 
with 
its 
individual 
stage 
of 
development. 
 
Article 16 
Work Programme 
 
1. 
The Parties shall enter into discussions on: 
 
(a) 
schedules of reservations to this Chapter; and 
 
(b) 
treatment of investment in services which does 
not qualify as commercial presence in Chapter 8 
(Trade in Services). 
 
2. 
The Parties shall also enter into discussions with a 
view to agreeing on: 
 
 
 
162
(a) 
the application of most-favoured-nation treatment 
to this Chapter, including to those schedules of 
reservations; and 
 
(b) 
procedures for the modification of schedules of 
reservations. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall conclude the discussions referred to 
in Paragraphs 1 and 2 within five years from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement unless the Parties otherwise 
agree. These discussions shall be overseen by the 
Investment Committee established pursuant to Article 17 
(Committee on Investment). 
 
4. 
Schedules of reservations to this Chapter referred to in 
Paragraph 1 shall enter into force on a date agreed to by the 
Parties. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this 
Chapter, Article 4 (National Treatment) and Article 12 
(Reservations) shall not apply until the Parties’ schedules of 
reservations to this Chapter have entered into force in 
accordance with Paragraph 4. 
 
Article 17 
Committee on Investment 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish a Committee on 
Investment 
(Investment 
Committee) 
consisting 
of 
representatives of the Parties. 
 
2. 
The Investment Committee shall meet within one year 
from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and 
thereafter as mutually determined by the Parties. Meetings 
may be conducted in person, or by any other means as 
mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
 
163
 
3. 
The Investment Committee’s functions shall be: 
 
(a) 
to oversee the discussions referred to in Article 
16.1 and 16.2 (Work Programme); 
 
(b) 
to review the implementation of this Chapter; 
 
(c) 
to consider any other matters related to this 
Chapter identified by the Parties; and 
 
(d) 
to report to the FTA Joint Committee as required. 
 
SECTION B 
 
Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor 
 
Article 18 
Scope and Definitions 
 
1. 
This Section shall apply to disputes between a Party 
and an investor of another Party concerning an alleged 
breach of an obligation of the former under Section A which 
causes loss or damage to the covered investment of the 
investor. 
 
2. 
This Section shall not apply to investment disputes 
which have occurred prior to the entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
3. 
A natural person possessing the nationality or 
citizenship of a Party may not pursue a claim against that 
Party under this Section. 
 
4. 
For the purpose of this Section: 
 
(a) 
Appointing Authority means: 
 
 
 
164
(i) 
in the case of arbitration under Article 
21.1(b) or (c) (Submission of a Claim), the 
Secretary-General of ICSID; 
 
(ii) 
in the case of arbitration under Article 
21.1(d) or (e) (Submission of a Claim), the 
Secretary-General of the Permanent Court 
of Arbitration; or 
 
(iii) 
any 
person 
as 
agreed 
between 
the 
disputing parties; 
 
(b) 
disputing Party means a Party against which a 
claim is made under this Section; 
 
(c) 
disputing party means a disputing investor or a 
disputing Party; 
 
(d) 
disputing parties means a disputing investor 
and a disputing Party; 
 
(e) 
disputing investor means an investor of a Party 
that makes a claim against another Party on its 
own behalf under this Section, and where 
relevant includes an investor of a Party that 
makes a claim on behalf of a juridical person of 
the disputing Party that the investor owns or 
controls; 
 
(f) 
ICSID means the International Centre for 
Settlement of Investment Disputes; 
 
(g) 
ICSID Convention means the Convention on the 
Settlement of Investment Disputes between 
States and National of other States, done at 
Washington on 18 March 1965; 
 
(h) 
ICSID Additional Facility Rules means the 
Rules Governing the Additional Facility for the 
 
 
165
Administration of Proceedings by the Secretariat 
of the International Centre for Settlement of 
Investment Disputes; 
 
(i) 
non-disputing Party means the Party of the 
disputing investor; 
 
(j) 
New York Convention means the United 
Nations Convention on the Recognition and 
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at 
New York on 10 June 1958; and 
 
(k) 
UNCITRAL 
Arbitration 
Rules 
means 
the 
arbitration 
rules 
of 
the 
United 
Nations 
Commission 
on 
International 
Trade 
Law, 
approved 
by 
the 
United 
Nations 
General 
Assembly on 15 December 1976. 
 
Article 19 
Consultations 
 
1. 
In the event of an investment dispute referred to in 
Article 18.1 (Scope and Definitions), the disputing parties 
shall as far as possible resolve the dispute through 
consultation, with a view towards reaching an amicable 
settlement. Such consultations, which may include the use of 
non-binding, third party procedures, shall be initiated by a 
written request for consultations delivered by the disputing 
investor to the disputing Party. 
 
2. 
With the objective of resolving an investment dispute 
through consultations, a disputing investor shall provide the 
disputing Party, prior to the commencement of consultations, 
with information regarding the legal and factual basis for the 
investment dispute. 
 
 
166
 
Article 20 
Claim by an Investor of a Party 
 
If an investment dispute has not been resolved within 180 
days of the receipt by a disputing Party of a request for 
consultations, the disputing investor may, subject to this 
Article, submit to conciliation or arbitration a claim: 
 
(a) 
that the disputing Party has breached an 
obligation arising under Article 4 (National 
Treatment), Article 6 (Treatment of Investment), 
Article 7 (Compensation for Losses), Article 8 
(Transfers), and Article 9 (Expropriation and 
Compensation) relating to the management, 
conduct, operation or sale or other disposition of 
a covered investment; and 
 
(b)  that the disputing investor or the covered 
investment has incurred loss or damage by 
reason of, or arising out of, that breach. 
 
Article 21 
Submission of a Claim  
 
1. 
A disputing investor may submit a claim referred to in 
Article 20 (Claim by an Investor of a Party) at the choice of 
the disputing investor: 
 
(a) 
where the Philippines or Viet Nam is the 
disputing Party, to the courts or tribunals of that 
Party, provided that such courts or tribunals have 
jurisdiction over such claim; or 
 
 
167
 
(b) 
under the ICSID Convention and the ICSID Rules 
of Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings 14 , 
provided that both the disputing Party and the 
non-disputing Party are parties to the ICSID 
Convention; or 
 
(c) 
under the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, 
provided that either of the disputing Party or non-
disputing Party are a party to the ICSID 
Convention; or 
 
(d) 
under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or 
 
(e) 
if the disputing parties agree, to any other 
arbitration 
institution 
or 
under 
any 
other 
arbitration rules, 
 
provided that resort to one of the fora under Subparagraphs 
(a) to (e) shall exclude resort to any other. 
 
2. 
A claim shall be deemed submitted to arbitration under 
this Article when the disputing investor’s notice of or request 
for arbitration made in accordance with this Section (notice of 
arbitration) is received under the applicable arbitration rules. 
 
3. 
The arbitration rules applicable under Paragraph 1(b) 
to (e) as in effect on the date the claim or claims were 
submitted to arbitration under this Article, shall govern the 
arbitration except to the extent modified by this Section. 
 
4. 
In relation to a specific investment dispute or class of 
disputes, the applicable arbitration rules may be waived, 
varied or modified by written agreement between the 
disputing parties. Such rules shall be binding on the relevant 
                                                 
14   In the case of the Philippines, the submission of a claim under the ICSID 
Convention and the ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings shall be 
subject to a written agreement between the disputing parties in the event that an 
investment dispute arises. 
 
 
168
tribunal or tribunals established pursuant to this Section, and 
on individual arbitrators serving on such tribunals. 
 
5. 
The disputing investor shall provide with the notice of 
arbitration: 
 
(a) 
the name of the arbitrator that the disputing 
investor appoints; or 
 
(b) 
the disputing investor’s written consent for the 
Appointing Authority to appoint that arbitrator. 
 
Article 22 
Conditions and Limitations on Submission of a Claim 
 
1. 
The submission of a dispute as provided for in Article 
20 (Claim by an Investor of a Party) to conciliation or 
arbitration under Article 21.1(b) to (e) (Submission of a 
Claim) in accordance with this Section, shall be conditional 
upon: 
 
(a) 
the submission of the investment dispute to such 
conciliation or arbitration taking place within three 
years of the time at which the disputing investor 
became aware, or should reasonably have 
become aware, of a breach of an obligation 
referred to in Article 20(a) (Claim by an Investor 
of a Party) causing loss or damage to the 
disputing investor or a covered investment; 
 
(b) 
the disputing investor providing written notice, 
which shall be submitted at least 90 days before 
the claim is submitted, to the disputing Party of its 
intent to submit the investment dispute to such 
conciliation or arbitration and which briefly 
summarises the alleged breach of the disputing 
Party (including the articles or provisions alleged 
to have been breached) and the loss or damage 
 
 
169
allegedly caused to the disputing investor or a 
covered investment; and 
 
(c) 
the notice of arbitration being accompanied by 
the disputing investor’s written waiver of its right 
to initiate or continue any proceedings before the 
courts or administrative tribunals of either Party, 
or other dispute settlement procedures, of any 
proceeding with respect to any measure alleged 
to constitute a breach referred to in Article 20 
(Claim by an Investor of a Party). 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding Paragraph 1(c), no Party shall prevent 
the disputing investor from initiating or continuing an action 
that seeks interim measures of protection for the sole 
purpose of preserving its rights and interests and does not 
involve the payment of damages or resolution of the 
substance of the matter in dispute, before the courts or 
administrative tribunals of the disputing Party. 
 
3. 
No Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an 
international claim, in respect of a dispute which has been 
submitted to conciliation or arbitration under this Article, 
unless such other Party has failed to abide by and comply 
with the award rendered in such dispute. Diplomatic 
protection, for the purposes of this Paragraph, shall not 
include informal diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose 
of facilitating a settlement of the dispute. 
 
4. 
A disputing Party shall not assert, as a defence, 
counter-claim, right of set-off or otherwise, that the disputing 
investor or the covered investment has received or will 
receive, pursuant to an insurance or guarantee contract, 
indemnification or other compensation for all or part of any 
alleged loss. 
 
 
170
 
Article 23 
Selection of Arbitrators 
 
1. 
Unless the disputing parties otherwise agree, the 
tribunal shall comprise three arbitrators: 
 
(a) 
one arbitrator appointed by each of the disputing 
parties; and 
 
(b) 
the third arbitrator, who shall be the presiding 
arbitrator, appointed by agreement of the 
disputing parties, shall be a national of a non-
Party which has diplomatic relations with the 
disputing Party and non-disputing Party, and 
shall not have permanent residence in either the 
disputing Party or non-disputing Party. 
 
2. 
Arbitrators shall have expertise or experience in public 
international 
law, 
international 
trade 
or 
international 
investment rules, and be independent of, and not be affiliated 
with or take instructions from the disputing Party, the non-
disputing Party, or disputing investor. 
 
3. 
The Appointing Authority shall serve as appointing 
authority for arbitration under this Article. 
 
4. 
If a tribunal has not been constituted within 75 days 
from the date that a claim is submitted to arbitration under 
this Section, the Appointing Authority, on the request of a 
disputing party, shall appoint, in his or her discretion, the 
arbitrator or arbitrators not yet appointed. 
 
5. 
The disputing parties may establish rules relating to 
expenses incurred by the tribunal, including arbitrators’ 
remuneration. 
 
6. 
Where any arbitrator appointed as provided for in this 
Article resigns or becomes unable to act, a successor shall 
 
 
171
be appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the 
appointment of the original arbitrator and the successor shall 
have all the powers and duties of the original arbitrator. 
 
Article 24 
Consolidation 
 
Where two or more claims have been submitted separately 
to arbitration under Article 20 (Claim by an Investor of a 
Party) and the claims have a question of law or fact in 
common and arise out of the same or similar events or 
circumstances, all concerned disputing parties may agree to 
consolidate those claims in any manner they deem 
appropriate. 
 
Article 25 
Conduct of the Arbitration 
 
1. 
Where issues relating to jurisdiction or admissibility are 
raised as preliminary objections, a tribunal shall decide the 
matter before proceeding to the merits. 
 
2. 
A disputing Party may, no later than 30 days after the 
constitution of the tribunal, file an objection that a claim is 
manifestly without merit. A disputing Party may also file an 
objection that a claim is otherwise outside the jurisdiction or 
competence of the tribunal. The disputing Party shall specify 
as precisely as possible the basis for the objection. 
 
3. 
The tribunal shall address any such objection as a 
preliminary question apart from the merits of the claim. The 
disputing parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 
present their views and observations to the tribunal. If the 
tribunal decides that the claim is manifestly without merit, or 
is otherwise not within the jurisdiction or competence of the 
tribunal, it shall render an award to that effect. 
 
4. 
The tribunal may, if warranted, award the prevailing 
party reasonable costs and fees incurred in submitting or 
 
 
172
opposing the objection. In determining whether such an 
award is warranted, the tribunal shall consider whether either 
the claim or the objection was frivolous or manifestly without 
merit, and shall provide the disputing parties a reasonable 
opportunity to comment. 
 
5. 
Unless the disputing parties otherwise agree, the 
tribunal shall determine the place of arbitration in accordance 
with the applicable arbitration rules, provided that the place 
shall be in the territory of a State that is a party to the New 
York Convention. 
 
6. 
Where an investor claims that the disputing Party has 
breached Article 9 (Expropriation and Compensation) by the 
adoption or enforcement of a taxation measure, the disputing 
Party and the non-disputing Party shall, upon request from 
the disputing Party, hold consultations with a view to 
determining whether the taxation measure in question has an 
effect equivalent to expropriation or nationalisation. Any 
tribunal that may be established pursuant to this Section 
shall accord serious consideration to the decision of both 
Parties under this Paragraph. 
 
7. 
If both Parties fail either to initiate consultations 
referred to in Paragraph 6, or to determine whether such 
taxation measure has an effect equivalent to expropriation or 
nationalisation within the period of 180 days from the date of 
the receipt of request for consultation referred to in Article 19 
(Consultations), the disputing investor shall not be prevented 
from submitting its claim to arbitration in accordance with this 
Section. 
 
Article 26 
Transparency of Arbitral Proceedings 
 
1. 
Subject to Paragraphs 2 and 3, the disputing Party may 
make publicly available all awards and decisions produced 
by the tribunal. 
 
 
 
173
2. 
Any of the disputing parties that intend to use 
information designated as confidential information in a 
hearing shall so advise the tribunal. The tribunal shall make 
appropriate arrangements to protect the information from 
disclosure. 
 
3. 
Any information specifically designated as confidential 
that is submitted to the tribunal or the disputing parties shall 
be protected from disclosure to the public. 
 
4. 
A disputing party may disclose to persons directly 
connected with the arbitral proceedings such confidential 
information as it considers necessary for the preparation of 
its case, but it shall require that such confidential information 
is protected. 
 
5. 
The tribunal shall not require a Party to furnish or allow 
access to information the disclosure of which would impede 
law enforcement or would be contrary to the Party’s law 
protecting Cabinet confidences, personal privacy or the 
financial affairs and accounts of individual customers of 
financial institutions, or which it determines to be contrary to 
its essential security. 
 
6. 
The non-disputing Party shall be entitled, at its cost, to 
receive from the disputing Party a copy of the notice of 
arbitration, no later than 30 days after the date that such 
document has been delivered to the disputing Party. The 
disputing Party shall notify all other Parties of the receipt of 
the notice of arbitration within 30 days thereof. 
 
Article 27 
Governing Law 
 
1. 
Subject to Paragraphs 2 and 3, when a claim is 
submitted under Article 20 (Claim by an Investor of a Party), 
the tribunal shall decide the issues in dispute in accordance 
with this Agreement, any other applicable agreements 
between the Parties, any relevant rules of international law 
 
 
174
applicable in the relations between the Parties, and, where 
applicable, any relevant domestic law of the disputing Party. 
 
2. 
The tribunal shall, on its own account or at the request 
of a disputing party, request a joint interpretation of any 
provision of this Agreement that is in issue in a dispute. The 
Parties shall submit in writing any joint decision declaring 
their interpretation to the tribunal within 60 days of the 
delivery of the request. Without prejudice to Paragraph 3, if 
the Parties fail to issue such a decision within 60 days, any 
interpretation submitted by a Party shall be forwarded to the 
disputing parties and the tribunal, which shall decide the 
issue on its own account. 
 
3. 
A joint decision of the Parties, declaring their 
interpretation of a provision of this Agreement shall be 
binding on a tribunal, and any decision or award issued by a 
tribunal must be consistent with that joint decision. 
 
Article 28 
Awards 
 
1. 
Where a tribunal makes a final award against either of 
the disputing parties, the tribunal may award, separately or in 
combination, only: 
 
(a) 
monetary damages and any applicable interest; 
and 
 
(b) 
restitution of property, in which case the award 
shall provide that the disputing Party may pay 
monetary damages and any applicable interest in 
lieu of restitution. 
 
2. 
A tribunal may also award costs and attorney’s fees in 
accordance with this Section and the applicable arbitration 
rules. 
 
3. 
A tribunal may not award punitive damages. 
 
 
175
 
4. 
An award made by a tribunal shall be final and binding 
upon the disputing parties. An award shall have no binding 
force except between the disputing parties and in respect of 
the particular case. 
 
5. 
Subject to Paragraph 6 and the applicable review 
procedure for an interim award, a disputing party shall abide 
by and comply with an award without delay.15 
 
6. 
A disputing party may not seek enforcement of a final 
award until: 
 
(a) 
in the case of a final award under the ICSID 
Convention: 
 
(i) 
120 days has elapsed from the date the 
award was rendered and no disputing party 
has requested revision or annulment of the 
award; or 
 
(ii) 
revision or annulment proceedings have 
been completed; 
 
(b) 
in the case of a final award under the ICSID 
Additional 
Facility 
Rules, 
the 
UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules, or the rules selected pursuant 
to Article 21.1(e) (Submission of a Claim): 
 
(i) 
90 days have elapsed from the date the 
award was rendered and no disputing party 
has commenced a proceeding to revise, set 
aside, or annul the award; or 
 
(ii) 
a court has dismissed or allowed an 
application to revise, set aside, or annul the 
award and there is no further appeal. 
                                                 
15  The Parties understand that there may be domestic legal and administrative 
processes that need to be observed before an award can be complied with. 
 
 
176
 
7. 
Each Party shall provide for the enforcement of an 
award in its territory. 
