 
 
70
 
CHAPTER 7 
 
SAFEGUARD MEASURES 
 
Article 1 
Scope 
 
This Chapter applies to safeguard measures adopted or 
maintained by a Party affecting trade in goods among the 
Parties during the transitional safeguard period. 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
domestic industry means, with respect to an 
imported good, the producers as a whole of the 
like or directly competitive goods operating within 
a Party, or those whose collective output of the 
like or directly competitive goods constitutes a 
major proportion of the total domestic production 
of those goods; 
 
(b) 
global safeguard measure means a measure 
applied under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the 
Agreement on Safeguards in Annex 1A to the 
WTO Agreement (Safeguards Agreement) or 
Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement (Agreement on 
Agriculture); 
 
(c) 
provisional measure means a provisional 
safeguard measure described in Article 7 
(Provisional Safeguard Measures); 
 
(d) 
safeguard 
measure 
means 
a 
transitional 
safeguard measure described in Article 6 (Scope 
 
 
71
and 
Duration 
of 
Transitional 
Safeguard 
Measures); 
 
(e) 
serious injury means a significant overall 
impairment in the position of a domestic industry; 
 
(f) 
threat of serious injury means serious injury 
that, on the basis of facts and not merely on 
allegation, conjecture, or remote possibility, is 
clearly imminent; and 
 
(g) 
transitional safeguard period means, in relation 
to a particular good, the period from the entry into 
force of this Agreement until three years after the 
customs duty on that good is to be eliminated, or 
reduced to its final commitment, in accordance 
with that Party’s schedule of tariff commitments in 
Annex 1 (Schedules of Tariff Commitments). 
 
Article 3 
Imposition of a Safeguard Measure 
 
If, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs 
duty under this Agreement, an originating good of another 
Party or Parties is being imported into the territory of a Party 
during the transitional safeguard period for that good in such 
increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to 
domestic production, and under such conditions as to cause 
or threaten to cause serious injury to a domestic industry that 
produces like or directly competitive goods, that Party may: 
 
(a) 
suspend the further reduction of any rate of 
customs duty provided for under this Agreement 
on the good; or 
 
(b) 
increase the rate of customs duty on the good to 
a level not exceeding the lesser of: 
 
 
 
72
(i) 
the most-favoured-nation applied rate of 
duty on the good in effect at the time the 
action is taken; or 
 
(ii) 
the most-favoured-nation applied rate of 
duty on the good in effect on the day 
immediately preceding the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement. 
 
Article 4 
Investigation 
 
1. 
A Party shall take a safeguard measure only following 
an investigation by that Party’s competent authorities in 
accordance with the same procedures as those provided for 
in Article 3 and Article 4.2 of the Safeguards Agreement; and 
to this end, Article 3 and Article 4.2 of the Safeguards 
Agreement shall be incorporated into and shall form part of 
this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that its competent authorities 
complete any such investigation expeditiously and, in any 
event, within one year following the date of its initiation. 
 
Article 5 
Notification 
 
1. 
A Party shall immediately notify the other Parties, in 
writing, on: 
 
(a) 
initiating 
an 
investigation 
under 
Article 
4 
(Investigation); 
 
(b) 
making a finding of serious injury or threat thereof 
caused by increased imports of an originating 
good of another Party or Parties resulting from 
the reduction or elimination of a customs duty on 
that originating good; 
 
 
 
73
(c) 
taking a decision to apply or extend a safeguard 
measure; 
 
(d) 
taking a decision to progressively liberalise an 
existing safeguard measure; or 
 
(e) 
applying a provisional measure. 
 
2. 
A Party shall provide promptly to the other Parties a 
copy of the public version of the report of its competent 
authorities required under Article 4 (Investigation). 
 
3. 
In making a notification pursuant to Paragraph 1(c), the 
Party applying or extending a safeguard measure shall 
provide the other Parties with evidence of serious injury or 
threat of serious injury caused by increased imports of an 
originating good of another Party or Parties as a result of the 
reduction or elimination of a customs duty pursuant to this 
Agreement. Such notification shall include: 
 
(a) 
a precise description of the originating good 
subject to the proposed safeguard measure 
including its heading or subheading under the HS 
Code, 
on 
which 
the 
schedules 
of 
tariff 
commitments in Annex 1 (Schedules of Tariff 
Commitments) are based; 
 
(b) 
a precise description of the proposed safeguard 
measure; and 
 
(c) 
the proposed date of the safeguard measure’s 
introduction, its expected duration, and a 
timetable for progressive liberalisation of the 
measure, if applicable. In the case of an 
extension of a measure, evidence that the 
domestic industry concerned is adjusting shall 
also be provided. 
 
 
 
74
Upon request, the Party applying or extending a safeguard 
measure shall provide additional information as another 
Party or Parties may consider necessary. 
 
4. 
A Party proposing to apply or extend a safeguard 
measure shall provide adequate opportunity for prior 
consultations with those Parties which would be affected by 
the safeguard measure with a view to reviewing the 
information provided under Paragraphs 2 and 3 arising from 
the investigation referred to in Article 4 (Investigation), 
exchanging views on the safeguard measure and reaching 
an agreement on compensation as set forth in Article 8 
(Compensation).  
 
5. 
Where a Party applies a provisional measure referred 
to in Article 7 (Provisional Safeguard Measures), on request 
of another Party or Parties, consultations shall be initiated 
immediately after such application. 
 
6. 
The provisions on notification in this Chapter shall not 
require a Party to disclose confidential information the 
disclosure of which would impede law enforcement or 
otherwise be contrary to the public interest or would 
prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of particular 
enterprises, public or private. 
 
Article 6 
Scope and Duration of Transitional Safeguard Measures 
 
1. 
A Party may not maintain a safeguard measure: 
 
(a) 
except to the extent, and for such time, as may 
be necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury 
and to facilitate adjustment; 
 
(b) 
for a period exceeding two years, except that the 
period may be extended by up to one year if the 
competent authorities of that Party determine, in 
conformity with the procedures referred to in 
 
 
75
Article 4 (Investigation), that the safeguard 
measure continues to be necessary to prevent or 
remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment 
and that there is evidence that the industry is 
adjusting; or 
 
(c) 
for a period exceeding three years, including any 
extension. 
 
2. 
A safeguard measure shall not be applied against an 
originating good of a Party which is an ASEAN Member 
State, as long as its share of imports of the good concerned 
in the importing Party does not exceed three per cent of the 
total imports from the other Parties, provided that those 
Parties with less than three per cent import share collectively 
account for not more than nine per cent of total imports of the 
good concerned from the other Parties. 
 
3. 
Where the expected duration of the safeguard measure 
is over one year, the importing Party shall ensure that the 
safeguard measure is progressively liberalised at regular 
intervals during the period of application. 
 
4. 
When a Party terminates a safeguard measure on a 
good, the rate of customs duty for that good shall be no 
higher than the rate that, according to the Party’s schedule of 
tariff commitments in Annex 1 (Schedules of Tariff 
Commitments), would have been in effect as if the safeguard 
measure had never been applied. 
 
5. 
Regardless of its duration or whether it has been 
subject to extension, a safeguard measure on a good shall 
terminate following the end of the transitional safeguard 
period for such good. 
 
6. 
No safeguard measure shall be applied again to the 
import of a particular originating good which has been 
subject to such a safeguard measure, for a period of time 
 
 
76
equal to the duration of the previous safeguard measure, or 
two years, whichever is longer. 
 
7. 
A Party shall not apply a safeguard measure to an 
originating good imported up to the limit of quota quantities 
granted under tariff rate quotas applied in accordance with its 
schedule of tariff commitments in Annex 1 (Schedules of 
Tariff Commitments). 
 
Article 7 
Provisional Safeguard Measures 
 
1. 
In critical circumstances, where delay would cause 
damage which would be difficult to repair, a Party may take a 
provisional measure, pursuant to a preliminary determination 
that there is clear evidence that increased imports of an 
originating good from another Party or Parties have caused 
or are threatening to cause serious injury to a domestic 
industry. 
 
2. 
The duration of such a provisional measure shall not 
exceed 
200 
days, 
during 
which 
time 
the 
relevant 
requirements of Article 2 (Definitions), Article 3 (Imposition of 
a Safeguard Measure), Article 4 (Investigation), Article 5 
(Notification) and Article 6 (Scope and Duration of 
Transitional Safeguard Measures) shall be met. The duration 
of any provisional measure shall be counted as part of the 
initial period and any extension as referred to in Article 6 
(Scope and Duration of Transitional Safeguard Measures). 
 
3. 
The customs duty imposed as a result of the 
provisional measure shall be refunded if the subsequent 
investigation referred to in Article 4 (Investigation) does not 
determine that increased imports of the originating good 
have caused or threatened to cause serious injury to a 
domestic industry. 
 
 
77
 
Article 8 
Compensation 
 
1. 
The Party proposing to apply a safeguard measure 
shall, in consultation with the exporting Party or Parties who 
would be affected by such a measure, provide to that Party 
or Parties mutually agreed adequate means of trade 
compensation in the form of substantially equivalent level of 
concessions or other obligations to that existing under this 
Agreement between the Party applying the safeguard 
measure and the exporting Party or Parties who would be 
affected by such a measure. 
 
2. 
In seeking compensation under Paragraph 1 for a 
safeguard measure, if the Parties mutually agree, they may 
hold consultations in the Goods Committee established 
pursuant to Article 11 (Committee on Trade in Goods) of 
Chapter 2 (Trade in Goods) to determine the substantially 
equivalent level of concessions to that existing under this 
Agreement between the Party taking the safeguard measure 
and the exporting Party or Parties who would be affected by 
such a measure prior to any suspension of equivalent 
concessions. 
Any 
proceedings 
arising 
from 
such 
consultations shall be completed within 30 days from the 
date on which the safeguard measure was applied. 
 
3. 
If no agreement on the compensation is reached within 
the time frame specified in Paragraph 2, the Party or Parties 
against whose originating good the measure is applied may 
suspend 
the 
application 
of 
substantially 
equivalent 
concessions to the trade of the Party applying the safeguard 
measure. The Party or Parties may suspend the concessions 
only for the minimum period necessary to achieve the 
substantially equivalent effects and only while the safeguard 
measure is maintained. The right of suspension provided for 
in this Paragraph shall not be exercised for the first two years 
that a safeguard measure is in effect, provided that the 
safeguard measure has been applied as a result of an 
 
 
78
absolute increase in imports and that such a safeguard 
measure conforms to this Chapter. 
 
4. 
A Party shall notify the other Parties in writing at least 
30 days before suspending concessions under Paragraph 3. 
 
5. 
The 
obligation 
to 
provide 
compensation 
under 
Paragraph 1 and the right to suspend substantially 
equivalent concessions under Paragraph 3 shall terminate 
on the termination of the safeguard measure. 
 
Article 9 
Relationship to the WTO Agreement 
 
1. 
Each Party retains its rights and obligations under 
Article XIX of GATT 1994, the Safeguards Agreement and 
Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture. This Agreement 
does not confer any additional rights or obligations on the 
Parties with regard to global safeguard measures. 
 
2. 
A Party shall not apply a safeguard measure or 
provisional measure, as provided in Article 6 (Scope and 
Duration of Transitional Safeguard Measures) or Article 7 
(Provisional Safeguard Measures) on a good that is subject 
to a measure that the Party has applied pursuant to Article 
XIX of GATT 1994 and the Safeguards Agreement, the 
Agreement on Agriculture or any other relevant provisions in 
the WTO Agreement, nor shall a Party continue to maintain a 
safeguard measure or provisional measure on a good that 
becomes subject to a measure that the Party applies 
pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Safeguards 
Agreement, the Agreement on Agriculture or any other 
relevant provisions in the WTO Agreement. 
 
3. 
A Party considering the imposition of a global 
safeguard measure on an originating good of another Party 
or Parties shall initiate consultations with that Party or Parties 
as far in advance of taking such measure as practicable. 
