 
 
ANNEX ON OPTIONAL PROCEDURES FOR COMPOSING 
ARBITRAL TRIBUNALS 
 
As provided in Article 11.3 (Establishment and Re-convening 
of Arbitral Tribunals), the Parties to the dispute may agree to 
use any of the following optional procedures, or variations 
thereof, for the purpose of composing an arbitral tribunal. 
 
Optional Procedure A 
 
1.  The Complaining Party and the Responding Party shall 
each appoint one arbitrator within (period to be agreed by the 
Parties to the dispute) of the date of the receipt of a request 
to establish an arbitral tribunal. If either Party fails to appoint 
an arbitrator within such period, then the arbitrator appointed 
by  the  other  Party  shall  act  as  the  sole  arbitrator  of  the 
arbitral tribunal. 
 
2.  Where two arbitrators are appointed in accordance with 
Paragraph 1, the Parties to the dispute shall designate by 
common agreement the third arbitrator who shall chair the 
arbitral  tribunal.  If  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  have  not 
designated the chair of the arbitral tribunal within (period to 
be agreed by the Parties to the dispute) of the appointment 
of  the  second  arbitrator,  the  two  arbitrators  appointed  in 
accordance  with  Paragraph  1  shall  designate  by  common 
agreement the third arbitrator who shall chair the tribunal. If 
the chair of the arbitral tribunal has not been designated by 
the arbitrators within (period to be agreed by the Parties to 
the dispute) of the appointment of the second arbitrator, the 
Director-General  of  the  WTO  shall,  at  the  request  of  any 
Party to the dispute, appoint the chair of the arbitral tribunal 
within (period to be agreed by the Parties to the dispute) of 
that request. 
  238 
 
Optional Procedure B 
 
1.  The Complaining Party and the Responding Party shall 
each appoint one arbitrator within (period to be agreed by the 
Parties to the dispute) of the date of the receipt of a request 
to establish an arbitral tribunal. 
 
2.  The  Parties  to  the  dispute  shall  agree  on  the 
appointment of the third arbitrator within (period to be agreed 
by the Parties to the dispute) of the appointment of the third 
arbitrator who shall serve as chair of the arbitral tribunal. If all 
three appointments have not been made within (period to be 
agreed  by  the  Parties  to  the  dispute),  the  necessary 
appointments shall be made at the request of any Party to 
the  dispute  by  the  Director-General  of  the  WTO  within  a 
further (period to be agreed by the Parties to the dispute). 
 
Optional Procedure C 
 
1.  Within  (period  to  be  agreed  by  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute) of the date of the receipt of a request to establish an 
arbitral tribunal, each Party to the dispute shall provide to the 
other  Parties  to  the  dispute  a  list  of  up  to  (number  to  be 
agreed  by  the  Parties  to  the  dispute)  nominees  for 
appointment as arbitrators, including at least two individuals 
suitable for appointment as chair. The Parties to the dispute 
shall then consult with each other on the composition of the 
arbitral tribunal with the objective of appointing the arbitrators 
drawing as appropriate on the lists of nominees. 
 
2.  If all of the arbitrators have not been appointed within 
(period to be agreed by the Parties to the dispute) of the 
request to establish an arbitral tribunal, any of the remaining 
arbitrators shall be appointed at the request of any Party to 
the dispute by random drawing from the lists of nominees 
separated for this purpose into separate lists of nominations 
for  appointment  as  chair  or  as  a  regular  arbitrator.
  239