 
CHAPTER 5 
 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
Article 1 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a)  facilitate trade among the Parties while protecting 
human,  animal  or  plant  life  or  health  in  the 
territory of each Party; 
 
(b)  provide  greater  transparency  in  and 
understanding of the application of each Party’s 
regulations  and  procedures  relating  to  sanitary 
and phytosanitary measures; 
 
(c)  strengthen  co-operation  among  the  competent 
authorities of the Parties which are responsible 
for matters covered by this Chapter; and 
 
(d)  enhance  practical  implementation  of  the 
principles  and  disciplines  contained  within  the 
SPS Agreement. 
 
Article 2 
Scope 
 
This  Chapter  shall  apply  to  all  sanitary  and  phytosanitary 
measures of a Party that may, directly or indirectly, affect 
trade among the Parties. 
 
Article 3 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
  55 
(a)  competent authorities means those authorities 
within  each  Party  recognised  by  the  national 
government  as  responsible  for  developing  and 
administering  the  various  sanitary  and 
phytosanitary measures within that Party;  
 
(b)  international  standards,  guidelines  and 
recommendations shall have the same meaning 
as set out in paragraph 3 of Annex A to the SPS 
Agreement; 
 
(c)  sanitary or phytosanitary measure shall have 
the same meaning as set out in paragraph 1 of 
Annex A to the SPS Agreement; and 
 
(d)  SPS  Agreement means the Agreement on the 
Application  of  Sanitary  and  Phytosanitary 
Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
Article 4 
General Provisions 
 
1.  Each  Party  affirms  its  rights  and  obligations  with 
respect to each other Party under the SPS Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party commits to apply the principles of the SPS 
Agreement in the development, application or recognition of 
any  sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measure  with  the  intent  to 
facilitate  trade  among  the  Parties  while  protecting  human, 
animal or plant life or health in the territory of each Party. 
 
Article 5 
Equivalence 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  strengthen  co-operation  on 
equivalence  in  accordance  with  the  SPS  Agreement  and 
relevant  international  standards,  guidelines  and 
recommendations,  in  order  to  facilitate  trade  among  the 
Parties. 
  56 
 
2.  To  facilitate  trade,  the  competent  authorities  of  the 
relevant Parties may develop equivalence arrangements and 
make equivalence decisions, in particular in accordance with 
Article  4  of  the  SPS  Agreement  and  with  the  guidance 
provided by the relevant international standard setting bodies 
and by the WTO Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures  established  pursuant  to  Article  12  of  the  SPS 
Agreement. 
 
3.  A Party shall, upon request, enter into negotiations with 
the aim of achieving bilateral recognition arrangements of the 
equivalence of specified sanitary or phytosanitary measures. 
 
Article 6 
Competent Authorities and Contact Points 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide  each  other  Party  with  a 
description of its competent authorities and their division of 
responsibilities. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  provide  each  other  Party  with  a 
contact  point  to  facilitate  distribution  of  requests  or 
notifications made in accordance with this Chapter. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure the information provided under 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 is kept up to date. 
 
Article 7 
Notification 
 
1.  Each  Party  acknowledges  the  value  of  exchanging 
information on its sanitary or phytosanitary measures. 
 
2.  Each Party agrees to provide timely and appropriate 
information  directly  to  the  contact  points  of  the  relevant 
Parties where a: 
 
  57 
(a)  change  in  animal  or  plant  health  status  may 
affect existing trade; 
 
(b)  significant  sanitary  or  phytosanitary  non-
compliance  associated  with  an  export 
consignment is identified by the importing Party; 
and 
 
(c)  provisional  sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measure 
against or affecting the exports of another Party 
is  considered  necessary  to  protect  human, 
animal or plant life or health within the importing 
Party. 
 
3.  The  exporting  Party  should,  to  the  extent  possible, 
endeavour to provide information to the importing Party if the 
exporting Party identifies that an export consignment which 
may  be  associated  with  a  significant  SPS  risk  has  been 
exported. 
 
Article 8 
Co-operation 
 
1.  Each Party shall explore opportunities for further co-
operation, collaboration and information exchange with the 
other Parties on sanitary and phytosanitary matters of mutual 
interest consistent with the objectives of this Chapter. 
 
2.  In relation to Paragraph 1, each Party shall endeavour 
to co-ordinate with regional or multilateral work programmes 
with the objective of avoiding unnecessary duplication and to 
maximise the benefits from the application of resources. 
 
3.  Each  Party  agrees  to  further  explore  how  it  can 
strengthen  co-operation  on  the  provision  of  technical 
assistance especially in relation to trade facilitation. 
 
4.  Any two Parties may, by mutual agreement, co-operate 
on adaptation to regional conditions in accordance with the 
  58 
SPS  Agreement  and  relevant  international  standards, 
guidelines and recommendations, in order to facilitate trade 
between the Parties. 
 
Article 9 
Consultations 
 
Where  a  Party  considers  that  a  sanitary  or  phytosanitary 
measure  affecting  trade  between  it  and  another  Party 
warrants  further  discussion,  it  may,  through  the  contact 
points,  request  a  detailed  explanation  of  the  sanitary  or 
phytosanitary  measure  and  if  necessary,  request  to  hold 
consultations  in  an  attempt  to  resolve  any  concerns  on 
specific issues arising from the application of the sanitary or 
phytosanitary  measure.  The  other  Party  shall  respond 
promptly  to  any  requests  for  such  explanations,  and  if  so 
requested, shall enter into consultations, within 30 days from 
the date of the request. The Parties to the consultations shall 
make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution 
through consultations within 60  days  from  the  date  of  the 
request, or a timeline mutually agreed upon by the consulting 
Parties. Should the consultations fail to achieve resolution, 
the matter shall be forwarded to the FTA Joint Committee. 
 
Article 10 
Meetings Among the Parties on Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Matters 
 
1.  The  Parties  hereby  establish  a  Sub-Committee  on 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Matters (SPS Sub-Committee), 
consisting of representatives from the relevant government 
agencies of each Party. The SPS Sub-Committee shall meet 
within one year of the entry into force of this Agreement and 
thereafter as mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
2.  The  SPS  Sub-Committee  shall  review  the  progress 
made  by  the  Parties  in  implementing  their  commitments 
under  this  Chapter  and  may  set  up  subsidiary  working 
  59 
groups, as agreed between or among the relevant Parties, to 
consider specified issues relating to this Chapter. 
 
3.  Competent authorities of any two Parties may meet to 
make  decisions  bilaterally  implementing  the  commitments 
under this Chapter. Each Party shall provide to the SPS Sub-
Committee updates on the status of their work. 
 
4.  Subject  to  Paragraph  1,  meetings  under  this  Article 
shall occur as and when mutually determined by the relevant 
Parties and all decisions and/or records made shall be by 
mutual  agreement  of  the  relevant  Parties.  Meetings  may 
occur in person, by teleconference, by video conference, or 
through  any  other  means  as  mutually  determined  by  the 
Parties. 
 
Article 11 
Non-Application of Chapter 17 (Consultations and 
Dispute Settlement) 
 
Chapter 17 (Consultations and Dispute Settlement) shall not 
apply to any matter arising under this Chapter. 
  60