 
[insert ASEAN, Australia and New Zealand flags] 
 
FIRST PROTOCOL TO AMEND THE AGREEMENT 
ESTABLISHING THE ASEAN-AUSTRALIA-NEW ZEALAND 
FREE TRADE AREA 
   
  1  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Preamble 
 
Article 1.  Amendments to Chapter 2 (Trade in Goods) 
 
Article 2.  Amendments to Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) 
 
Article 3.  Amendments  to  the  Annex  on  Operational 
Certification  Procedures  to  Chapter  3  (Rules  of 
Origin) 
 
Article 4.  Amendment to Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) to 
Incorporate the Consolidated Product Specific Rules 
 
Article 5.  Entry into Force 
 
Article 6.  Depositary 
 
Appendices: 
 
Appendix 1.   Chapter  2  (Trade  in  Goods)  of  the Agreement,  as 
amended by this Protocol 
 
Appendix 2: 
 
Section A.   Chapter  3  (Rules  of  Origin)  of  the  Agreement,  as 
amended by this Protocol 
 
Section B.  Annex  on  Operational  Certification  Procedures  to 
Chapter  3  (Rules  of  Origin),  as  amended  by  this 
Protocol.  
 
Appendix 3.   List of Data Requirements 
 
Appendix 4.  Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules), as amended by 
this Protocol 
   
  2  
PREAMBLE 
 
The  Governments  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia (Cambodia), the Republic of Indonesia (Indonesia), the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  (Lao  PDR),  Malaysia,  the 
Republic of the Union of Myanmar (Myanmar), the Republic of the 
Philippines (Philippines), the Republic of Singapore (Singapore), 
the Kingdom of Thailand (Thailand) and the Socialist Republic of 
Viet  Nam  (Viet  Nam),  collectively,  the  Member  States  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and Australia and New 
Zealand; 
 
RECALLING  the  Agreement  Establishing  the  ASEAN-Australia-
New  Zealand  Free  Trade  Area  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
“Agreement”),  signed  at  Cha-am,  Petchaburi,  Thailand  on  27 
February 2009; 
 
SEEKING  to  facilitate  trade  by  incorporating  the  consolidated 
Product  Specific  Rules  using  the  most  recent  version  of  the 
Harmonized  Commodity  Description  and  Coding  System 
established  by  the  International  Convention  on  the  Harmonized 
Description  and  Coding  System signed  at  Brussels  on  14  June 
1983, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the “HS Code”); 
 
RECOGNISING the importance of a timely updating of the Product 
Specific Rules and the Schedules of Tariff Commitments to take 
account of periodic amendments of the HS Code; 
 
RECOGNISING  also  the  need  to  update  the  Operational 
Certification Procedures for the Rules of Origin of the Agreement 
to make it more trade facilitative, including but not limited to the 
removal  of  the  requirement  to  reflect  the  FOB  value  in  the 
Certificate  of  Origin  in  cases  where  the  regional  value  content 
criteria is not used; 
 
DESIRING to ensure the implementation of the Rules of Origin in 
an effective and trade facilitating manner; 
 
NOTING  that  Article  6  (Amendments)  of  Chapter  18  (Final 
Provisions) of the Agreement provides for amendments thereto to 
be agreed in writing by the Parties; 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
  3  
 
Article 1 
Amendments to Chapter 2 
(Trade in Goods) 
 
1.  Chapter  2  (Trade  in  Goods)  of  the  Agreement  shall  be 
amended by inserting a new Article 13 (Transposition of Schedules 
of Tariff Commitments) as follows: 
 
“Article 13 
Transposition of Schedules of Tariff Commitments 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that the transposition of its 
schedule  of  tariff  commitments,  undertaken  in  order  to 
implement Annex 1 (Schedules of Tariff Commitments) in 
the  nomenclature  of  the  revised  HS  Code  following 
periodic  amendments  to  the  HS  Code,  is  carried  out 
without impairing existing tariff concessions. 
 
2.  The  transposition  of  the  schedules  of  tariff 
commitments shall be carried out in accordance with the 
methodologies and procedures adopted by the Committee 
on  Trade  in  Goods.  The  procedures  should,  at  the 
minimum, provide for: 
 
(a)  the  timely  circulation  by  a  Party  of  a  draft 
schedule  of  tariff  commitments  in  the 
nomenclature  of  the  revised  HS  Code 
accompanied by a two-way transposition setting 
out at national tariff line level: 
 
(i)  a concordance between the draft schedule 
of tariff commitments in the nomenclature of 
the revised HS Code and the  schedule of 
tariff  commitments  in  the  nomenclature  of 
the then current HS Code; and 
 
(ii)  a  concordance  between  the  schedule  of 
tariff  commitments  in  the  nomenclature  of 
the  then  current  HS  Code  and  the  draft 
schedule  of  tariff  commitments  in  the 
nomenclature of the revised HS Code; 
 
  4  
(b)  the provision of comments by other Parties on 
the draft schedules circulated in accordance with 
Subparagraph  (a),  and  consultations  between 
the  Parties,  as  necessary,  with  a  view  to 
resolving any concerns raised; 
 
(c)  the  schedules  of  tariff  commitments  in  the 
nomenclature of the revised HS Code shall be 
made  publicly  available  in  a  timely  manner, 
following  completion  of  the  process  in 
Subparagraphs (a) and (b); and 
  
(d)  for the purpose of Subparagraph (a), proposals 
for  technical  assistance  shall  receive  positive 
consideration.” 
 
2.  The new Chapter 2 (Trade in Goods) is set out in Appendix 1 
of this Protocol. 
 
Article 2 
Amendments to Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) 
 
1.  Article  4  (Goods  Not  Wholly  Produced  or  Obtained)  of 
Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) of the Agreement shall be replaced by 
a  new  Article  4  providing  for  Annex  2  to  contain  a  list  of 
consolidated  Product  Specific  Rules  that  includes  goods  which 
were  previously  not  covered  in  Annex  2  but  are  treated  as  an 
originating good if: 
 
(a)  the good has a regional value content of not less than 40 
per  cent  of  FOB  calculated  using  the  formulae  as 
described  in  Article  5  (Calculation  of  Regional  Value 
Content)  of  Chapter  3  (Rules  of  Origin),  and  the  final 
process of production is performed within a Party; or 
 
(b)  all non-originating materials used in the production of the 
good have undergone a change in tariff classification at 
the four-digit level (i.e. a change in tariff heading) of the 
HS Code in a Party. 
 
2.  The new Article 4 referred to in paragraph 1 is set out below: 
   
  5  
 
“Article 4 
Goods Not Wholly Produced or Obtained 
 
1.   For  the  purposes  of  Article  2.1(b)  (Originating 
Goods), a good shall qualify as an originating good of a 
Party  if  it  satisfies  all  applicable  requirements  of  the 
Product Specific Rules. 
 
2.  Where Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) provides a 
choice of rule between a regional value content based rule 
of  origin,  a  change  in  tariff  classification  based  rule  of 
origin, a specific process of production, or a combination 
of  any  of  these,  a  Party  shall  permit  the  producer  or 
exporter  of  the  good  to  decide  which  rule  to  use  in 
determining if the good is an originating good.” 
 
3.  Article 19 (Consultations, Review and Modification) of Chapter 
3 (Rules of Origin) of the Agreement shall be replaced by a new 
Article 19 as set out below: 
 
“Article 19 
Consultations, Review and Modification 
 
1.  The Parties shall consult regularly to ensure that this 
Chapter  is  administered  effectively,  uniformly  and 
consistently in order to achieve the spirit and objectives of 
this Agreement. 
 
2.  The FTA Joint Committee, upon recommendation of 
the  Committee  on  Trade  in  Goods  and  the  ROO  Sub-
Committee, may adopt a List of Data Requirements for 
inclusion in the Application for a Certificate of Origin and 
the Certificate of Origin. 
 
3.  The List of Data Requirements, and any subsequent 
revisions to it, adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 
shall be promptly published and shall come into effect on 
the date determined by the Parties through the FTA Joint 
Committee and on the basis of a report from the ROO 
Sub-Committee,  through  the  Committee  on  Trade  in 
Goods. 
 
  6  
4.  The FTA Joint Committee, upon recommendation of 
the  Committee  on  Trade  in  Goods  and  the  ROO  Sub-
Committee,  shall  adopt  the  transposition  of  Annex  2 
(Product Specific Rules) that is in the nomenclature of the 
revised HS Code following periodic amendments to the 
HS Code. Such transposition shall be carried out without 
impairing  the  existing  commitments  and  shall  be 
completed in a timely manner. The Parties shall promptly 
publish  the  transposition  of  Annex  2  (Product  Specific 
Rules) in the nomenclature of the revised HS Code. 
 
5.  This  Chapter  may  be  reviewed  and  modified  in 
accordance  with  Article  6  (Amendments)  of  Chapter 18 
(Final Provisions) as and when necessary, upon request 
of a Party, and subject to the agreement of the Parties, 
and may be open to such reviews and modifications as 
may be agreed upon by the FTA Joint Committee.” 
 
4.  The new Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) is set out in Appendix 
2 Section A of this Protocol. 
 
Article 3 
Amendments to the Annex on Operational  
Certification Procedures of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) 
 
1.   Rules 6, 7 and 10 of the Annex on Operational Certification 
Procedures to Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) of the Agreement shall 
be replaced by the new Rules 6, 7 and 10 as set out below: 
 
“PRE-EXPORTATION EXAMINATION 
 
Rule 6 
 
The  Issuing  Authority/Body  shall,  to  the  best  of  its 
competence and ability, carry out proper examination, in 
accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the 
exporting  Party  or  the  procedures  of  the  Issuing 
Authority/Body, upon each application for a Certificate of 
Origin to ensure that: 
 
(i)  the application and the Certificate of Origin are duly 
completed and signed by the authorised signatory; 
 
  7  
(ii)  the good is an originating good in accordance with 
Article 2 (Originating Goods) of Chapter 3 (Rules of 
Origin); 
 
(iii)  other  statements  in  the  Certificate  of  Origin 
correspond to appropriate supporting documents and 
other relevant information; and 
 
(iv)  information  in  the  List  of  Data  Requirements  is 
provided for the goods being exported. 
 
 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
Rule 7 
 
1.  The  format  of  the  Certificate  of  Origin  is  to  be 
determined by the Parties and it must contain the data 
requirements listed in the List of Data Requirements. 
 
2.  The  Certificate  of  Origin  shall  comprise  one  (1) 
original and two (2) copies. 
 
3.  The Certificate of Origin shall: 
 
(i)  be in hardcopy; 
 
(ii)  bear a unique reference number separately given by 
each place or office of issuance; 
(iii)  be in the English language; and 
 
(iv)  bear an authorised signature and official seal of 
the  Issuing  Authority/Body.  The  signature  and 
official seal may be applied electronically. 
 
4.  The original Certificate of Origin shall be forwarded 
by the exporter to the importer for submission to the 
Customs  Authority  of  the  importing  Party.  Copies 
shall be retained by the Issuing Authority/Body and 
the exporter. 
 
  8  
5.  Multiple  goods  declared  on the same  Certificate  of 
Origin shall be allowed, provided that each good is 
originating in its own right. 
 
Rule 10 
 
1.  The Certificate of Origin shall be issued as near as 
possible to, but no later than three (3) working days after, 
the date of exportation. 
 
2.  Where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued as 
provided for in Paragraph 1 due to involuntary errors or 
omissions or other valid causes, the Certificate of Origin 
may be issued retroactively, but no longer than 12 months 
from the date of exportation, bearing the words “ISSUED 
RETROACTIVELY”. 
 
3.  An  Issuing  Authority/Body  of  an  intermediate  Party 
shall  issue  a  back-to-back  Certificate  of  Origin,  if  an 
application  is  made  by  the  exporter  while  the  good  is 
passing through that intermediate Party, provided that: 
 
(i)  a valid original Certificate of Origin or its certified 
true copy is presented; 
 
(ii)  the  period  of  validity  of  the  back-to-back 
Certificate of Origin does not exceed the period 
of validity of the original Certificate of Origin; 
 
(iii)  the consignment which is to be re-exported using 
the  back-to-back  Certificate  of  Origin  does  not 
undergo  any  further  processing  in  the 
intermediate  Party,  except  for  repacking  or 
logistics activities such as unloading, reloading, 
storing,  or  any  other  operations  necessary  to 
preserve them in good condition or to transport 
them to the importing Party; 
 
(iv)  the  back-to-back  Certificate  of  Origin  contains 
relevant information from the original Certificate 
of  Origin  in  accordance  with  the  List  of  Data 
Requirements; and 
 
  9  
(v)  the verification procedures in Rules 17 and 18 
shall also apply to the back-to-back Certificate of 
Origin.” 
 
2.   Appendix 1 (Minimum Data Requirements – Application for a 
Certificate of Origin) and Appendix 2 (Minimum Data Requirements 
– Certificate of Origin) of the Annex on Operational Certification 
Procedures (OCP) to Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) shall be deleted. 
Upon  entry  into  force  of  this  Protocol,  the  List  of  Data 
Requirements as set out in Appendix 3 of this Protocol shall apply 
as  a  transitional  measure  until  such  time  as  a  List  of  Data 
Requirements  is  adopted  by  the  FTA  Joint  Committee  in 
accordance with the new Article 19.2 (Consultations, Review and 
Modification) of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin). 
 
3.  The  new  Annex  on  Operational  Certification  Procedures  to 
Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) is set out in Appendix 2 Section B. 
  
Article 4 
Amendment to Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) of the 
Agreement to Incorporate the Consolidated Product Specific 
Rules 
 
1.  Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) of the Agreement shall be 
replaced by a new Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) as set out in 
Appendix 4 of this Protocol. 
 
2.  The  new  Annex  2  (Product  Specific  Rules)  shall  be 
implemented  by  the  Parties  in  accordance  with  procedures 
adopted by the FTA Joint Committee, upon a recommendation of 
the Committee on Trade in Goods and the ROO Sub-Committee. 
These procedures shall address, inter alia, the date(s) on which 
the new Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) shall be applicable to 
applications  for,  and  the  issuance  of,  Certificates  of  Origin  in 
accordance  with  the  Annex  on  Operational  Certification 
Procedures. 
 
Article 5 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Agreement. 
 
  10  
2.  Each Party shall notify each other Party in writing upon the 
completion of its internal requirements necessary for the entry into 
force of this Protocol. This Protocol shall enter into force 30 days 
after the date on which Australia, New Zealand and at least four 
(4) ASEAN Member States have made such notifications. 
 
3.  Where  a  Party  does  not  complete  its  internal  procedures 
necessary for the entry into force of this Protocol by the entry into 
force date set out in  paragraph 2, this Protocol shall enter into 
force in relation to that Party on the date of its notification to other 
Parties of completion of such internal procedures. 
 
Article 6 
Depositary 
 
For the ASEAN Member States, this Protocol shall be deposited 
with  the  Secretary-General  of  ASEAN,  who  shall  then  promptly 
furnish  a  certified  true  copy  thereof,  to  each  ASEAN  Member 
State. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised 
by their respective Governments, have signed this First Protocol to 
Amend  the  Agreement  Establishing  the  ASEAN-Australia-New 
Zealand Free Trade Area. 
 
DONE at [City], [Country], this [Day] of [Month] in the Year Two 
Thousand  and  Fourteen,  in  three  original  copies  in  the  English 
language. 
  11 