 
 
CHAPTER 13 
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
Article 1 
Objectives 
 
Each  Party  confirms  its  commitment  to  reducing 
impediments to trade and investment by promoting deeper 
economic  integration  through  effective  and  adequate 
creation,  utilisation,  protection  and  enforcement  of 
intellectual property rights, taking into account the different 
levels  of  economic  development  and  capacity  and 
differences  in  national  legal  systems  and  the  need  to 
maintain  an  appropriate  balance  between  the  rights  of 
intellectual  property  owners  and the legitimate interests of 
users  in  subject  matter  protected  by  intellectual  property 
rights. 
 
Article 2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  intellectual  property  rights  means  copyright 
and  related  rights;  rights  in  trademarks, 
geographical  indications,  industrial  designs, 
patents,  and  layout-designs  (topographies)  of 
integrated  circuits;  rights  in  plant  varieties;  and 
rights in undisclosed information; as referred to in 
the TRIPS Agreement; and 
 
(b)  WIPO  means  the  World  Intellectual  Property 
Organization. 
  183 
 
Article 3 
Affirmation of the TRIPS Agreement 
 
Each Party affirms its rights and obligations with respect to 
each other Party under the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
Article 4 
National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to the nationals of each other 
Party treatment no less favourable than it accords to its own 
nationals with regard to the protection1 of intellectual property, 
subject to the exceptions provided in the TRIPS Agreement 
and  in  those  multilateral  agreements  concluded  under  the 
auspices of WIPO. 
 
2.  Each Party may avail itself of the exceptions referred to 
under Paragraph 1 in relation to its judicial and administrative 
procedures, including requiring a national of any other Party 
to designate an address for service of process in its territory, 
or  to  appoint  an  agent  in  its  territory,  only  where  such 
exceptions are: 
 
(a)  necessary  to  secure  compliance  with  laws  and 
regulations  that  are  not  inconsistent  with  this 
Chapter; and 
 
(b)  not applied in a manner that would constitute a 
disguised restriction on trade. 
                                                 
1  For the purposes of this Paragraph, “protection” includes matters affecting the 
availability, acquisition, scope, maintenance, and enforcement of intellectual property 
rights,  as  well  as  those  matters  affecting  the  use  of  intellectual  property  rights 
specifically covered by this Chapter. Further, for the purposes of this Paragraph, 
“protection” also includes the prohibition on circumvention of effective technological 
measures specified in Article 5 (Copyright). 
  184 
 
Article 5 
Copyright 
 
1.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  provide to authors of works2 the exclusive right to 
authorise  any  communication  to  the  public  of 
their works by wire or wireless means; 
 
(b)  provide  criminal  procedures  and  penalties  at 
least in cases where a person wilfully infringes 
copyright for commercial advantage or financial 
gain; and 
 
(c)  foster the establishment of appropriate bodies for 
the  collective  management  of  copyright  and 
encourage such bodies to operate in a manner 
that  is  efficient,  publicly  transparent  and 
accountable to their members. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to: 
 
(a)  provide  to  authors  of  sound  recordings 3  the 
exclusive right to authorise any communication to 
the public of their sound recordings by wire or 
wireless means; 
                                                 
2  For the purposes of this Chapter, “works” includes a cinematograph film. 
 
3   Where  a  Party  is,  or  becomes,  a  member  of  the  WIPO  Performances  and 
Phonograms Treaty (WPPT), that Party’s obligations under this Paragraph shall be 
subject to any commitments and reservations that Party has made under the WPPT. 
  185 
 
(b)  provide  adequate  legal  protection  and  effective 
legal  remedies  against  the  circumvention  of 
effective technological measures4 that are used 
by  copyright  owners  in  connection  with  the 
exercise of their copyright rights and that restrict 
acts,  in  respect  of  their  works,  which  are  not 
authorised by the copyright owners concerned or 
permitted by law; and 
 
(c)  provide  criminal  procedures  and  penalties  at 
least in cases where a person wilfully commits a 
significant  infringement  of  copyright,  that  is  not 
committed for commercial advantage or financial 
gain and which is not otherwise permitted by law, 
but which has a substantial prejudicial impact on 
the owner of the copyright. 
 
Article 6 
Government Use of Software 
 
Each Party confirms its commitment to: 
 
(a)  maintain appropriate laws, regulations or policies 
that  make  provision  for  its  central  government 
agencies  to  continue  to  use  only  legitimate 
computer software in a manner authorised by law 
and consistent with this Chapter; and 
 
(b)  encourage  its  respective  regional  and  local 
governments  to  maintain  or  adopt  similar 
measures. 
 
 
                                                 
 
4  For the purposes of this Chapter, “effective technological measures” means any 
technology, device, or component that is used by copyright owners in connection with 
the exercise of their copyright rights and that restricts acts, in respect of their works or 
sound recordings, which are not authorised by the copyright owners concerned or 
permitted by law. 
  186 
Article 7 
Trademarks and Geographical Indications 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  maintain  a  trademark  classification 
system  that  is  consistent  with  the  Nice  Agreement 
Concerning  the  International  Classification  of  Goods  and 
Services for the Purposes of the Registration of Marks, as 
amended from time to time. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide high quality trademark rights 
through  the  conduct  of  examination  as  to  substance  and 
formalities  and  through  opposition  and  cancellation 
procedures. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  protect  trademarks  where  they 
predate,  in  its  jurisdiction,  geographical  indications  in 
accordance with its domestic law and the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
4.  Each  Party  recognises  that  geographical  indications 
may be protected through a trademark system. 
 
Article 8 
Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore  
 
Subject to each Party’s international obligations, each Party 
may  establish  appropriate  measures  to  protect  genetic 
resources, traditional knowledge and folklore. 
 
Article 9 
Co-operation 
 
1.  The Parties acknowledge the significant differences in 
capacity  between  some  Parties  in  the  area  of  intellectual 
property. Mindful of this, where a Party’s implementation of 
this Chapter is inhibited by capacity constraints, each other 
Party shall, as appropriate, and upon request, endeavour to 
provide  co-operation  to  that  Party  to  assist  in  the 
implementation of this Chapter. 
  187 
 
2.  At the request of a Party, any other Party may, to the 
extent possible and as appropriate, render assistance to the 
requesting Party in order to enhance the requesting Party’s 
national  framework  for  the  acquisition,  protection, 
enforcement, utilisation and creation of intellectual property, 
with a view to developing intellectual property systems that 
foster domestic innovation in the requesting Party. 
 
3.  The Parties agree to promote dialogue on intellectual 
property issues, including by: 
 
(a)  designating  contact  points  in  relevant 
government agencies, including contact points for 
the enforcement of intellectual property rights at 
the border; 
 
(b)  encouraging  interaction  between  intellectual 
property  experts  in  order  to  broaden 
understanding  of  each  others’  intellectual 
property systems; and 
 
(c)  exchanging  information  concerning  the 
infringement  of  intellectual  property  rights,  in 
accordance with domestic law. 
 
4.  The Parties shall endeavour to co-operate in order to 
promote  the  efficiency  and  transparency  of  intellectual 
property  administration  and  registration  systems,  including 
by exchanging information regarding developments in such 
systems and by developing publicly accessible databases of 
registered rights. 
 
5.  The Parties shall endeavour to co-operate in order to 
promote education and awareness regarding the benefits of 
effective protection and enforcement of intellectual property 
rights. 
 
  188 
6.  Parties  shall  co-operate  on  border  measures  with  a 
view to eliminating trade which infringes intellectual property 
rights. Parties who are members of the WTO shall also co-
operate  with  each  other  to  support  the  effective 
implementation  of  the  requirements  relating  to  border 
measures  set  out  in  Articles  51  to  60  of  the  TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
7.  Recognising the importance of achieving the objectives 
of this Chapter, should any Party intend to accede to any of 
the following treaties, it can seek to co-operate with other 
Parties to support its accession to, and its implementation of, 
the following treaties: 
 
(a)  the Patent Cooperation Treaty 1970; 
 
(b)  the  Strasbourg  Agreement  Concerning  the 
International Patent Classification 1971; 
 
(c)  the  Budapest  Treaty  on  the  International 
Recognition of the Deposit of Micro-organisms for 
the Purposes of Patent Procedure 1977; 
 
(d)  the  Protocol  Relating  to  the  Madrid  Agreement 
Concerning  the  International  Registration  of 
Marks 1989; 
 
(e)  the Patent Law Treaty 2000; 
 
(f)  the International Convention for the Protection of 
New Varieties of Plants 1991; 
 
(g)  the TRIPS Agreement; 
 
(h)  the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks 
2006; 
 
(i)  the WIPO Copyright Treaty 1996; and 
 
  189 
(j)  the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty 
1996. 
 
8.  Each  Party  shall,  on  request  and  as  it  considers 
appropriate,  endeavour  to  provide  co-operation  to  support 
any  Party’s  efforts  to  implement  an  inclusive  system5 of 
trademark registration. 
 
9.  All  co-operation  under  this  Article  is  subject  to  the 
availability of resources. 
 
Article 10 
Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that its laws and regulations of 
general  application  that  pertain  to  the  availability,  scope, 
acquisition,  enforcement  and  prevention  of  the  abuse  of 
intellectual property rights are made publicly available in at 
least the national language of that Party or in the English 
language. Each Party shall also endeavour to provide that 
final judicial decisions and administrative rulings pertaining to 
the aforesaid matters are made publicly available in at least 
the national language of that Party or in the English language. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour  to  make  the  information 
referred to in Paragraph 1, which is publicly available, made 
available in the English language and on the internet. 
 
3.  Each Party shall endeavour to make available on the 
internet databases of all pending and registered trademark 
rights in its jurisdiction. 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
5   An  inclusive  system  of  trademarks  does  not  limit  the  scope  of  registrable 
trademarks and thus permits the registration of all trademarks that are capable of 
distinguishing a good or service, such as shapes, aspects of packaging, single and 
multi-colour marks, sounds and scents. 
  190 
Article 11 
Recognition of Transitional Periods under the TRIPS 
Agreement 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall derogate from any transitional 
period for implementing a provision of the TRIPS Agreement 
that has been or may be agreed by the Council for TRIPS, 
established pursuant to Article IV of the WTO Agreement, 
either  prior  or  subsequent  to  the  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement. 
 
Article 12 
Committee on Intellectual Property 
 
1.  Recognising the importance of achieving the objectives 
of this Chapter, the Parties hereby establish a Committee on 
Intellectual  Property  (IP  Committee),  consisting  of 
representatives of the Parties to monitor the implementation 
and administration of this Chapter. 
 
2.  The IP Committee shall meet annually or as mutually 
determined by the Parties. Meetings may be conducted in 
person, or by any other means as mutually determined by 
the Parties. 
 
3.  The  IP  Committee  shall  determine  its  terms  of 
reference in accordance with this Chapter. 
 
4.  The IP Committee shall determine its work programme 
in response to priorities as identified by the Parties. 
 
5.  In the course of fulfilling its functions, the IP Committee 
may agree that existing or new mechanisms be utilised or 
developed in order to promote dialogue between the Parties 
on  intellectual  property  issues,  including  by  providing 
opportunities for stakeholders to engage with the Parties on 
such issues. 
 
  191 
6.  Each Party shall notify the IP Committee annually of its 
progress  in  meeting  its  commitments  under  Article  5 
(Copyright),  and  developments  regarding  accession  to 
treaties  listed  in  Article  9.7  (Co-operation).  These 
notifications shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the 
first IP Committee meeting of the year. 
  192