 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 2  
 
SECTION A 
 
CHAPTER 3 (RULES OF ORIGIN) 
 
 
   
 CHAPTER 3 
 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
Article 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)   aquaculture  means  the  farming  of  aquatic  organisms 
including  fish,  molluscs,  crustaceans,  other  aquatic 
invertebrates  and aquatic plants, from seedstock  such as 
eggs,  fry,  fingerlings  and  larvae,  by  intervention  in  the 
rearing or growth processes to enhance production such as 
regular stocking, feeding, or protection from predators; 
 
(b)   back-to-back Certificate of Origin means a Certificate of 
Origin issued by an intermediate exporting Party’s Issuing 
Authority/Body based on the Certificate of Origin issued by 
the first exporting Party; 
 
(c)   CIF  means  the  value  of  the  good  imported  and includes 
the cost of freight and insurance up to the port or place of 
entry into the country of importation. The valuation shall be 
made in accordance with Article VII of GATT 1994 and the 
Agreement on Customs Valuation; 
 
(d)   FOB means the free-on-board value of the good, inclusive 
of the cost of transport to the port or site of final shipment 
abroad.  The  valuation  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with 
Article VII of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Customs 
Valuation; 
 
(e)   generally  accepted  accounting  principles  means  the 
recognised  consensus  or  substantial authoritative  support 
in  a  Party,  with  respect  to  the  recording  of  revenues, 
expenses,  costs,  assets  and  liabilities;  the  disclosure  of 
information;  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements. 
These  standards  may  encompass  broad  guidelines  of 
general application as well as detailed standards, practices 
and procedures; 
 
(f)   good means any merchandise, product, article or material; 
 
(g)   identical and interchangeable materials means materials 
 that are fungible as a result of being of the same kind and 
commercial  quality,  possessing the  same  technical  and 
physical  characteristics,  and  which  once  they  are 
incorporated  into  the  finished  product  cannot  be 
distinguished from one another for origin purposes by virtue 
of any markings or mere visual examination; 
 
(h)   indirect  material  means  a  good  used  in  the  production, 
testing,  or  inspection  of  a  good  but  not  physically 
incorporated  into  the  good,  or  a  good  used  in  the 
maintenance  of  buildings  or  the  operation  of  equipment 
associated with the production of a good, including: 
 
(i)  fuel and energy; 
 
(ii)  tools, dies and moulds; 
 
(iii)  spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of 
equipment and buildings; 
 
(iv)  lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other 
materials  used  in  production  or  used  to  operate 
equipment and buildings; 
 
(v)  gloves,  glasses,  footwear, clothing,  safety equipment 
and supplies; 
 
(vi)  equipment,  devices  and  supplies  used  for testing or 
inspecting goods; 
 
(vii)  catalysts and solvents; and 
 
(viii)  any  other  goods  that  are  not  incorporated into  the 
good but whose use in the production of the good can 
reasonably  be  demonstrated  to  be  a  part  of  that 
production; 
 
(i)   material  means  any  matter  or  substance  used  or 
consumed  in  the  production  of  goods  or  physically 
incorporated  into  a  good  or  subjected to a process in the 
production of another good; 
 
 
(j)   non-originating good or non-originating material means 
a good or material that does not qualify as originating under 
this Chapter; 
  
(k)   originating  material  means  a  material  that  qualifies  as 
originating under this Chapter; 
 
(l)   producer  means  a  person  who  grows,  mines,  raises, 
harvests,  fishes,  traps,  hunts,  farms,  captures,  gathers, 
collects,  breeds,  extracts,  manufactures,  processes  or 
assembles a good; 
 
(m)   production  means  methods  of  obtaining  goods including 
growing,  mining,  harvesting,  farming,  raising,  breeding, 
extracting,  gathering,  collecting, capturing, fishing, trapping, 
hunting, manufacturing, producing, processing or assembling 
a good; 
 
(n)   Product  Specific  Rules  are  rules  in  Annex  2  (Product 
Specific  Rules)  that  specify  that  the  materials  used  to 
produce  a  good  have  undergone  a  change  in  tariff 
classification  or  a  specific  manufacturing  or  processing 
operation, or satisfy a regional value content criterion or a 
combination of any of these criteria; and 
 
(o)   packing  materials  and  containers  for  transportation 
means  goods  used  to  protect  a  good  during  its 
transportation, different from those containers or materials 
used for its retail sale. 
 
Article 2 
Originating Goods 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Chapter, a good shall be treated as an 
originating good if it is either: 
 
(a)   wholly produced or obtained in a Party as provided in Article 
3 (Goods Wholly Produced or Obtained); 
 
(b)   not wholly produced or obtained in a Party provided that the 
good has satisfied the requirements of Article 4 (Goods Not 
Wholly Produced or Obtained); or 
 
(c)   produced  in a Party  exclusively  from  originating materials 
from one or more of the Parties, 
 
and meets all other applicable requirements of this Chapter. 
   
  
2.  A  good  which  complies  with  the  origin  requirements  of 
Paragraph 1 will retain its eligibility for preferential tariff treatment if 
exported to a Party and subsequently re- exported to another Party. 
 
Article 3 
Goods Wholly Produced or Obtained 
 
For the purposes of Article 2.1(a) (Originating Goods), the following 
goods shall be considered as wholly produced or obtained: 
 
(a)   plants  and  plant  goods,  including    fruit,  flowers, 
vegetables,  trees,  seaweed,  fungi and live plants, grown, 
harvested, picked, or gathered in a Party1; 
 
(b)   live animals born and raised in a Party; 
 
(c)  goods obtained from live animals in a Party; 
 
(d)   goods  obtained  from  hunting,  trapping,  fishing,  farming, 
aquaculture, gathering, or capturing in a Party; 
 
(e)   minerals and other naturally occurring substances extracted 
or  taken  from  the  soil,  waters,  seabed  or  beneath  the 
seabed in a Party; 
 
(f)   goods of sea-fishing and other marine goods taken from the 
high seas, in accordance  with international  law2, by  any 
vessel registered or recorded with a Party and entitled to fly 
the flag of that Party; 
 
(g)   goods  produced  on  board  any  factory  ship  registered  or 
recorded  with a Party and entitled to fly  the  flag  of  that 
Party from the goods referred to in Subparagraph (f); 
   
                                                           
1  For the purposes of this Article, “in a Party” means the land, territorial sea, Exclusive 
Economic Zone, Continental Shelf over which a Party exercises sovereignty, sovereign rights 
or jurisdiction, as the case may be, in accordance with international law. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing contained in the above definition shall be construed as 
conferring recognition or acceptance by one Party of the outstanding maritime and territorial 
claims made by any other Party, nor shall be taken as pre- judging the determination of such 
claims. 
 
2 “International law” refers to generally accepted international law such as the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
  
(h)   goods taken by a Party, or a person of a Party, from the 
seabed  or  beneath  the  seabed  beyond  the  Exclusive 
Economic Zone and adjacent Continental Shelf of that Party 
and  beyond  areas  over  which  third  parties  exercise 
jurisdiction  under  exploitation  rights  granted  in 
accordance with international law3; 
 
(i)   goods which are: 
 
(i)  waste  and  scrap  derived  from  production  and 
consumption in a Party provided that such goods are 
fit only for the recovery of raw materials; or 
 
(ii)  used  goods  collected  in  a  Party  provided that such 
goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials; 
and 
 
(j)   goods produced or obtained in a Party solely from products 
referred  to  in  Subparagraphs  (a)  to  (i)  or  from  their 
derivatives. 
 
Article 4 
Goods Not Wholly Produced or Obtained 
 
1.  For the purposes of Article 2.1(b) (Originating Goods), a good 
shall qualify as an originating good of a Party if it satisfies all applicable 
requirements of the Product Specific Rules. 
 
2.  Where Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) provides a choice of rule 
between a regional value content based rule of origin, a change in tariff 
classification based rule of origin, a specific process of production, or a 
combination  of  any  of  these,  a  Party  shall  permit  the  producer  or 
exporter of the good to decide which rule to use in determining if the 
good is an originating good.” 
 
Article 5 
Calculation of Regional Value Content 
 
1.  For the purposes of Article 4 (Goods Not Wholly Produced or 
Obtained), the formula for calculating the regional value content will be 
either: 
                                                           
3 “International law” refers to generally accepted international law such as the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea 
 
 (a)  Direct Formula 
 
AANZFTA 
Labour Overhead Other 
Material  +  +  + Profit + 
 Cost  Cost cost
Cost  ×100%  
FOB
 
or 
 
(b)   Indirect/Build-Down Formula 
 
Value of Non-
FOB     −       
Originating Materials
×100% 
FOB
 
where: 
 
(a)   AANZFTA  Material  Cost  is  the  value  of  originating 
materials, parts or produce that are acquired  or  self-
produced  by  the  producer  in  the  production  of  the 
good; 
 
(b)   Labour  Cost  includes  wages,  remuneration  and 
other employee benefits; 
 
(c)   Overhead Cost is the total overhead expense; 
 
(d)   Other Costs are the costs incurred in placing the good 
in  the  ship  or  other  means  of  transport  for export 
including, but not limited to, domestic transport costs, 
storage  and  warehousing,  port  handling,  brokerage 
fees and service charges; 
 
(e)   FOB  is  the  free-on-board  value  of  the  goods  as 
defined in Article 1 (Definitions); and 
 
(f)   Value  of  Non-Originating  Materials  is  the  CIF 
value  at  the  time  of  importation  or  the  earliest 
ascertained   price  paid  for  all  non-originating 
materials,  parts  or  produce  that  are  acquired  by the 
producer in the production of the good. Non-originating 
materials include materials of undetermined origin but 
do not include a material that is self-produced. 
 
2.  The value of goods under this Chapter shall be determined  in 
accordance  with  Article  VII  of  GATT  1994  and  the  Agreement  on 
 Customs Valuation. 
 
Article 6 
Cumulative Rules of Origin 
 
For  the  purposes  of  Article  2  (Originating  Goods),  a  good  which 
complies with the origin requirements provided therein and which is 
used in another Party as a material in the production of another good 
shall  be  considered  to  originate  in  the  Party  where  working  or 
processing of the finished good has taken place. 
 
Article 7 
Minimal Operations and Processes 
 
Where a claim for origin is based solely on a regional value content, 
the operations or processes listed below, undertaken by themselves or 
in combination with each other, are considered to be minimal and shall 
not be taken into account  in determining  whether  or not a good  is 
originating: 
 
(a)   ensuring  preservation  of  goods  in  good  condition  for  the 
purposes of transport or storage; 
 
(b)   facilitating shipment or transportation; 
 
 
(c)   packaging4 or presenting goods for transportation or sale; 
 
(d)   simple processes, consisting of sifting, classifying, washing, 
cutting,  slitting,  bending,  coiling  and  uncoiling  and  other 
similar operations; 
 
(e)   affixing of marks, labels or other like distinguishing signs on 
products or their packaging; and 
 
(f)   mere dilution with water or another substance that does not 
materially  alter the characteristics of the goods. 
 
Article 8 
De Minimis 
 
1.   A  good  that  does  not  satisfy  a  change  in  tariff  classification 
requirement  pursuant  to  Article  4  (Goods  Not  Wholly  Produced  or 
Obtained) will nonetheless be an originating good if: 
                                                           
4 This excludes encapsulation which is termed “packaging” by the electronics industry. 
 
  (a)  (i)  for a good, other than that provided for in Chapters 50 
to 63 of the HS Code, the value of all non-originating 
materials used in the production of the good that did 
not undergo the required change in tariff classification 
does not exceed 10 per cent of the FOB value of the 
good; 
 
  (ii)  for a good provided for in Chapters 50 to 63 of the HS 
Code, the weight of all non-originating materials used 
in  its  production  that  did  not  undergo  the  required 
change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 per 
cent of the total weight of the good, or the value of all 
non-originating materials used in the production of the 
good that did not undergo the required change in tariff 
classification does not exceed 10 per cent of the FOB 
value of the good; and 
 
(b)  the good meets all other applicable criteria of this Chapter. 
 
2.  The value of such materials shall, however, be included in the 
value  of  non-originating  materials  for  any  applicable  regional  value 
content requirement. 
 
Article 9 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
1.  For  the  purposes  of  determining  the  origin  of  a  good, 
accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or other information 
materials presented with the good shall be considered part of that good 
and shall be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating 
materials  used  in  the  production  of  the  originating  good  have 
undergone the applicable change in tariff classification, provided that: 
 
(a)   the accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or other 
information  materials  presented with  the      good  are  not 
invoiced separately from the originating good; and 
 
(b)   the  quantities  and  value  of  the  accessories,  spare parts, 
tools  and  instructional  or  other  information  materials 
presented with the good are customary for that good. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, if the good is subject to a regional 
value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, 
tools and instructional  or other information  materials presented with 
the  good  shall  be  taken  into  account  as  originating  or  non-
originating materials,  as the case may be, in calculating the regional 
 value content of the good. 
 
3.  Paragraphs  1  and  2  do  not  apply  where  accessories, spare 
parts, tools and instructional or other information materials  presented 
with  the  good  have  been  added  solely for the purpose of artificially 
raising the regional value content of that good, provided  it is proven 
subsequently by the importing Party that they are not sold therewith. 
 
Article 10 
Identical and Interchangeable Materials 
 
The determination of whether identical and interchangeable materials 
are originating materials shall be made either by physical segregation 
of each of the materials or by the use of generally accepted accounting 
principles  of  stock  control  applicable,  or  inventory  management 
practice, in  the exporting Party. 
 
Article 11 
Treatment of Packing Materials and Containers 
 
1.  Packing materials and containers for transportation and shipment 
of a good shall not be taken into account in determining the origin of 
any good. 
 
2.  Packing materials and containers in which a good is packaged for 
retail sale, when classified together with that good, shall not be taken 
into  account  in  determining  whether  all  of  the  non-originating 
materials used in the production of the good have met the applicable 
change in tariff classification requirements for the good. 
 
3.  If a good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the 
value  of  the  packing  materials  and containers in which the good is 
packaged for retail sale shall be taken into account as originating or 
non-originating materials,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  calculating  the 
regional value content of the good. 
 
Article 12 
Indirect Materials 
 
An indirect material shall be treated as an originating material without 
regard  to  where  it  is  produced  and  its  value  shall  be  the  cost 
registered in the accounting records of the producer of the good. 
   
  
Article 13 
Recording of Costs 
 
For  the  purposes  of  this  Chapter,  all  costs  shall  be  recorded  and 
maintained  in  accordance  with  the  generally  accepted  accounting 
principles applicable in the Party in which the goods are produced. 
 
Article 14 
Direct Consignment 
 
A good will retain its originating status as determined under Article 2 
(Originating Goods) if the following conditions have been met: 
 
(a)   the  good  has  been  transported  to  the  importing  Party 
without passing through any non-Party; or 
 
(b)   the  good  has  transited  through  a  non-Party,  provided 
that: 
 
(i)  the good has not undergone subsequent production or 
any  other  operation  outside  the    territories  of  the 
Parties other than unloading, reloading, storing, or any 
other operations necessary to preserve them in good 
condition or to transport them to the importing Party; 
 
(ii)  the  good  has  not  entered  the  commerce  of a non-
Party; and 
 
(iii)  the transit entry is justified for geographical, economic 
or logistical reasons. 
 
Article 15 
Certificate of Origin 
 
A claim that goods are eligible for preferential tariff treatment shall be 
supported  by  a  Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  an  Issuing 
Authority/Body notified to the other Parties as set out in this Chapter’s 
Annex on Operational Certification Procedures. 
 
Article 16 
Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment 
 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party may deny a claim for 
preferential tariff treatment when: 
 
 (a)   the good does not qualify as an originating good; or 
 
(b)   the importer, exporter or producer fails to comply with any 
of the relevant requirements of this Chapter. 
 
Article 17 
Review and Appeal 
 
The importing Party shall grant the right of appeal in matters relating to 
the eligibility for preferential tariff treatment to producers,  exporters  or 
importers  of  goods  traded  or  to  be traded  between  the Parties,  in 
accordance  with  its  domestic  laws,  regulations  and  administrative 
practices. 
 
Article 18 
Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin 
 
1.   For the purpose of the effective and uniform implementation  of 
this Chapter, the Parties hereby establish a Sub-Committee on Rules 
of  Origin  (ROO  Sub-Committee).  The  functions  of  the  ROO  Sub-
Committee shall include: 
 
(a)   monitoring of the implementation and administration of this 
Chapter; 
 
(b)   discussion  of  any  issue  that  may  have  arisen  in  the  
course of implementation, including any matters  that may 
have  been  referred  to  the  ROO  Sub-Committee  by  the 
Goods  Committee  established  pursuant  to  Article  11 
(Committee on Trade  in  Goods)  of  Chapter  2  (Trade  in 
Goods) or the FTA Joint Committee; 
 
(c)  discussion  of  any  proposed  modifications  of  the  rules  of 
origin under this Chapter; and 
 
(d)   consultations  on  issues  relating  to  rules  of  origin  and 
administrative co-operation. 
 
2.  The ROO Sub-Committee shall consist of representatives of the 
Parties. It shall meet from time to time as mutually determined by the 
Parties. 
 
3.  The ROO Sub-Committee shall commence a review of Article 6 
(Cumulative Rules of Origin) no earlier than 12 months, and  no  later 
than  18  months  following  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement.  This 
review will consider the extension of the application of cumulation to 
 all  value  added  to  a  good  within  AANZFTA.  The  ROO  Sub-
Committee  shall submit to the Goods Committee established pursuant 
to Article 11 (Committee on Trade in Goods) of Chapter 2 (Trade in 
Goods)  a final report,  including  any recommendations, within  three 
years  of entry  into force  of this Agreement. 
 
4.  The  ROO  Sub-Committee  shall  commence  a  review  of  the 
application of the chemical reaction rule and other chemical process 
rules to Chapters 28 to 40 of the HS Code and other Product Specific 
Rules identified by Parties, no earlier than 12 months and no later than 
18 months, following  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement.  The  ROO 
Sub-Committee  shall  submit  to  the  Goods  Committee  established 
pursuant to Article 11 (Committee on Trade in Goods) of Chapter 2 
(Trade in Goods) a final report, including any recommendations, within 
three  years  of entry  into force  of this Agreement. 
 
Article 19 
Consultations, Review and Modification 
 
1.  The Parties shall consult regularly to ensure that this Chapter is 
administered effectively, uniformly and consistently in order to achieve 
the spirit and objectives of this Agreement. 
 
2.  The  FTA  Joint  Committee,  upon  recommendation  of  the 
Committee  on  Trade  in  Goods  and  the  ROO  Sub-Committee,  may 
adopt a List of Data Requirements for inclusion in the Application for a 
Certificate of Origin and the Certificate of Origin. 
 
3.  The List of Data Requirements, and any subsequent revisions to 
it, adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be promptly published 
and  shall  come  into  effect  on  the  date  determined  by  the  Parties 
through the FTA Joint Committee and on the basis of a report from the 
ROO Sub-Committee, through the Committee on Trade in Goods. 
 
4.  The  FTA  Joint  Committee,  upon  recommendation  of  the 
Committee  on Trade in  Goods and  the  ROO  Sub-Committee, shall 
adopt the transposition of Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) that is in 
the  nomenclature  of  the  revised  HS  Code  following  periodic 
amendments to the HS Code. Such transposition shall be carried out 
without impairing the existing commitments and shall be completed in a 
timely manner. The Parties shall promptly publish the transposition of 
Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) in the nomenclature of the revised 
HS Code. 
   
  
5.  This Chapter may be reviewed and modified in accordance with 
Article 6 (Amendments) of Chapter 18 (Final Provisions) as and when 
necessary, upon request of a Party, and subject to the agreement of 
the Parties, and may be open to such reviews and modifications as 
may be agreed upon by the FTA Joint Committee. 
 
 