 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
 
CHAPTER 2 (TRADE IN GOODS) 
   
 CHAPTER 2 
 
TRADE IN GOODS 
 
Article 1 
Reduction and/or Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  each  Party  shall 
progressively  reduce  and/or  eliminate  customs  duties on originating 
goods  of the other  Parties  in accordance  with its  schedule  of  tariff 
commitments in Annex 1 (Schedules of Tariff Commitments). 
 
Article 2 
Acceleration of Tariff Commitments 
 
1.  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  preclude  all  Parties  from 
negotiating  and  entering  into  arrangements  to  accelerate  and/or 
improve  tariff  commitments  made  under  this  Agreement.  An 
agreement  among  all  Parties  to  accelerate  and/or  improve  tariff 
commitments  shall  be  incorporated  into  this  Agreement,  in 
accordance  with  Article  6  (Amendments)  of  Chapter  18  (Final 
Provisions).  Such  acceleration  and/or  improvement  of  tariff 
commitments shall be implemented by all the Parties. 
 
2.  Two or more Parties may also consult to consider accelerating 
and/or improving tariff commitments set out in their schedules of tariff 
commitments  in  Annex  1  (Schedules  of  Tariff  Commitments).  An 
agreement between   these Parties to accelerate and/or improve their 
respective  tariff  commitments  under  this  Agreement  shall  be 
incorporated  into  this  Agreement,  in  accordance  with  Article  6 
(Amendments)  of  Chapter  18  (Final  Provisions).  Tariff  concessions 
arising  from  such  acceleration  and/or  improvement  of  tariff 
commitments shall be extended to all Parties. 
 
3.  A  Party  may,  at  any  time,  unilaterally  accelerate  the  reduction 
and/or elimination of customs duties on originating goods of the other 
Parties  set  out  in  its  schedule  of  tariff  commitments  in  Annex  1 
(Schedules of Tariff Commitments). A  Party intending to do so shall 
inform the other Parties before the new rate of customs duties takes 
effect, or in any event, as early as practicable. 
   
  
Article 3 
Elimination of Agricultural Export Subsidies 
 
Consistent with their rights and obligations under the WTO Agreement, 
each  Party  agrees  to  eliminate  and  not  reintroduce  all  forms  of 
export subsidies for agricultural goods destined for the other Parties. 
 
Article 4 
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation 
 
Each  Party  shall  accord  national  treatment  to  the  goods  of  the 
other Parties in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994. To this end, 
Article  III  of  GATT  1994  shall  be  incorporated into and shall form 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 5 
Fees and Charges Connected with Importation and Exportation 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that fees and charges connected with 
importation  and  exportation  shall  be  consistent  with  its  rights  and 
obligations under GATT 1994. 
 
2.  Each Party shall make available details of the fees and charges 
that it imposes in connection with importation and exportation  and,  to 
the  extent  possible  and  in  accordance with its domestic laws and 
regulations, make such information available on the internet. 
 
3.   A Party may not require consular transactions, including related 
fees and charges, in connection with the importation of any good of 
any other Party. 
 
Article 6 
Publication and Administration of Trade Regulations 
 
1.  Article  X  of  GATT  1994  shall  be  incorporated  into  and  shall 
form part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  In  accordance  with  its  domestic  laws  and  regulations and to 
the extent possible, each Party shall make laws, regulations, decisions 
and rulings of the kind referred to in Paragraph  1 available on the 
internet. 
 
 
 
 Article 7 
Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  No Party shall adopt or maintain any prohibition or quantitative 
restriction on the importation of any good of any other Party or on the 
exportation of any good destined for the territory of  any  other  Party, 
except  in  accordance  with  its  WTO  rights  and  obligations  or  this 
Agreement.  To  this  end,  Article  XI  of  GATT  1994  shall  be 
incorporated  into  and  shall  form  part  of  this  Agreement,  mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Party  shall 
not  adopt  or  maintain  any  non-tariff  measure  on the importation of 
any good of any other Party or on the exportation of any good destined 
for the territory of any other Party, except in accordance with its WTO 
rights and obligations or in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  the  transparency  of  its  non-tariff 
measures  permitted  under  Paragraph  2 and  shall ensure  that any 
such measures are not prepared, adopted or applied with the view to 
or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to trade among 
the Parties. 
 
4.  The  Goods  Committee  established  pursuant  to  Article  11 
(Committee  on  Trade  in  Goods)  shall  review  non-tariff  measures 
covered  by  this  Chapter  with  a  view  to  considering  the  scope  for 
additional means to enhance the facilitation of trade in goods between 
the  Parties.  The  Goods  Committee  shall  submit  to  the  FTA  Joint 
Committee  an  initial  report  on  progress  in  its  work,  including  any 
recommendations,  within  two  years  of  entry  into  force  of  this 
Agreement.  Any  Party may nominate measures for consideration by 
the Goods Committee. 
 
Article 8 
Import Licensing 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  ensure that  all  automatic and  non-automatic 
import  licensing  measures  are  implemented  in  a  transparent  and 
predictable manner, and applied in accordance with the Agreement on 
Import Licensing Procedures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  promptly  notify  the  other  Parties  of  existing 
import  licensing  procedures.  Thereafter,  each  Party  shall  notify  the 
other  Parties  of  any  new  import  licensing  procedures  and  any 
modification to  its existing import licensing procedures, to the extent 
 possible 60 days before it takes effect, but in any case no later than 
within 60 days of publication. The information in any notification under 
this  Article  shall  be  in  accordance  with  Article  5.2  and  5.3  of  the 
Agreement  on  Import  Licensing  Procedures  in  Annex  1A  to  the 
WTO Agreement. 
 
3.  Upon request of another Party, a Party shall, promptly and  to the 
extent  possible,  respond  to the  request  of that Party for information 
on import licensing requirements of general application. 
 
Article 9 
Modification of Concessions 
 
In  exceptional  circumstances  where  a  Party  faces  unforeseen 
difficulties in implementing its tariff commitments, that Party may, with 
the agreement  of all other interested Parties,  modify or withdraw  a 
concession contained in its schedule of tariff commitments in Annex 1 
(Schedules  of Tariff Commitments).  In order to seek to reach such 
agreement, the relevant Party shall engage in negotiations with any 
interested Parties. In such negotiations, the Party proposing to  modify 
or  withdraw its  concessions shall maintain a level of reciprocal and 
mutually advantageous concessions no less favourable to the trade of 
all other interested  Parties  than that provided  for in this Agreement 
prior  to  such  negotiations,  which  may  include  compensatory 
adjustments  with  respect  to  other  goods.  The  mutually  agreed 
outcome of the negotiations, including any compensatory adjustments, 
shall  apply  to  all  the  Parties  and  shall  be  incorporated  into  this 
Agreement in accordance with Article 6 (Amendments) of Chapter 18 
(Final Provisions). 
 
Article 10 
Contact Points and Consultations 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  to  facilitate 
communication  among  the  Parties  on  any  matter  relating  to  this 
Chapter. 
 
2.  Where a Party considers that any proposed or actual measure  of 
another  Party  or  Parties  may  materially  affect  trade  in  goods 
between the Parties, that Party may, through the contact point, request 
detailed information relating to that measure and, if necessary, request 
consultations  with  a  view  to  resolving  any  concerns  about  the 
measure. The other Party or Parties shall respond promptly to such 
requests for information and consultations. 
 
 Article 11 
Committee on Trade in Goods 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish a Committee  on Trade in Goods 
(Goods Committee)  consisting  of representatives  of the Parties. The 
Goods Committee may meet at the request of any Party or the FTA 
Joint Committee to consider any matter arising under this Chapter, or 
under: 
 
  (a)   Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin); 
 
  (b)   Chapter 4 (Customs Procedures); 
 
  (c)  Chapter 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures); 
 
  (d)   Chapter  6  (Standards,  Technical  Regulations  and 
Conformity Assessment Procedures); and 
 
  (e)   Chapter 7 (Safeguard Measures). 
 
2.  The functions of the Goods Committee shall include: 
 
  (a)   reviewing implementation of, and measures taken pursuant 
to, the Chapters referred to in Paragraph 1; 
 
  (b)   receiving reports from, and reviewing the work of:  
 
(i)  the  ROO  Sub-Committee  established  pursuant  to 
Article  18  (Sub-Committee  on  Rules  of    Origin)  of 
Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin); 
 
(ii)  the  SPS  Sub-Committee  established  pursuant  to 
Article 10 (Meetings Among the Parties on Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Matters) of    Chapter 5 (Sanitary  and 
Phytosanitary Measures); and 
 
(iii)  the  STRACAP  Sub-Committee  established  pursuant 
to Article 13 (Sub-Committee on Standards, Technical 
Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures) 
of  Chapter 6  (Standards,  Technical  Regulations  and 
Conformity Assessment Procedures); 
 
  (c)   implementing  the  work  programme  provided  for in Article 
7.4 (Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Measures); 
 
   (d)   identifying  and  recommending  measures  to  promote  and 
facilitate  improved  market  access,  including  any 
acceleration  of  tariff  commitments  under  Article  2.1 
(Acceleration of Tariff Commitments); and 
 
  (e)  reporting, as required, to the FTA Joint Committee. 
 
3.  The Goods Committee may agree to establish subsidiary working 
groups or refer issues for consideration to the ROO Sub-Committee 
established pursuant to Article 18 (Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin) 
of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin). 
 
4.  The meetings of the Goods Committee may occur in person, or 
by any other means as mutually determined  by the Parties. 
 
Article 12 
Application 
 
Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be available 
to it to ensure  observance  of  the provisions  of  this Chapter by the 
regional and local governments and authorities within its territories. 
 
Article 13 
Transposition of Schedules of Tariff Commitments 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that the transposition of its schedule of 
tariff  commitments,  undertaken  in  order  to  implement  Annex  1 
(Schedules of Tariff Commitments) in the nomenclature of the revised 
HS Code following periodic amendments to the HS Code, is carried out 
without impairing existing tariff concessions. 
 
2.  The transposition of the schedules of tariff commitments shall be 
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  methodologies  and  procedures 
adopted by the Committee on Trade in Goods. The procedures should, 
at the minimum, provide for: 
 
(a)  the timely circulation by a Party of a draft schedule of tariff 
commitments in the nomenclature of the revised HS Code 
accompanied  by  a  two-way  transposition  setting  out  at 
national tariff line level: 
 
(i)  a  concordance  between  the  draft  schedule  of  tariff 
commitments in the nomenclature of the revised HS 
Code and  the  schedule  of  tariff  commitments  in  the 
nomenclature of the then current HS Code; and 
 ii)  a  concordance  between  the  schedule  of  tariff 
commitments in the nomenclature of the then current 
HS Code and the draft schedule of tariff commitments 
in the nomenclature of the revised HS Code; 
 
(b)  the  provision  of  comments  by  other  Parties  on  the  draft 
schedules circulated in accordance with Subparagraph (a), 
and consultations between the Parties, as necessary, with a 
view to resolving any concerns raised; 
 
(c)  the schedules of tariff commitments in the nomenclature of 
the revised HS Code shall be made publicly available in a 
timely  manner,  following  completion  of  the  process  in 
Subparagraphs (a) and (b); and 
  
(d)  for the purpose of Subparagraph (a), proposals for technical 
assistance shall receive positive consideration. 
 
 