- Page 67 -
Article 118
Protection and Distribution of Intellectual Property Rights
and other Rights of a Proprietary Nature
1.
Scientific and technological information of a non-proprietary nature
arising from Co-operative Activities may be made available to the public by
the government of either Party.
2.
In accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the Parties
and with relevant international agreements to which the Parties are, or may
become parties, the Parties shall ensure the adequate and effective
protection, and give due consideration to the distribution, of intellectual
property rights or other rights of a proprietary nature resulting from the Co-
operative Activities undertaken pursuant to this Chapter. The Parties shall
consult for this purpose as necessary.
Article 119
Costs of Co-operative Activities under Chapter 15
1.
The implementation of this Chapter shall be subject to the availability of
appropriated funds and the applicable laws and regulations of each Party.
2.
Costs of Co-operative Activities shall be borne in such manner as may
be mutually agreed.
Article 120
Implementing Arrangements
Implementing arrangements setting forth the details and procedures of Co-
operative Activities under this Chapter may be made between the government
agencies of the Parties.
CHAPTER 16
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Article 121
Co-operation in the Field of Human Resource Development
The Parties, recognising that sustainable economic growth and prosperity
largely depend on people's knowledge and skills, shall develop co-operation
between the governments of the Parties and encourage mutually beneficial
co-operation between parties, one or both of whom are entities in their
respective territories other than the governments of the Parties, in the field of
human resource development.
- Page 68 -
Article 122
Exchanges of Persons
1.
The Parties shall encourage exchanges of their scholars, teachers,
students, members of educational institutions and other persons engaging in
scientific or educational activities.
2.
The Parties shall also encourage co-operation and exchanges between
their youth and youth organisations with a view to promoting friendship
between them.
Article 123
Co-operation between Educational and Research Institutions
The Parties shall encourage close co-operation between their educational and
research institutions.
Article 124
Exchanges of Government Officials
The Parties shall promote exchanges of their government officials with a view
to enhancing mutual understanding of the policies of their respective
governments.  The details of the exchanges of such government officials shall
be specified in the Implementing Agreement.
Article 125
Ageing Population
The Parties shall exchange views and experiences on policy issues
concerning an ageing population.
CHAPTER 17
TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
Article 126
Co-operation in the Field of Trade and Investment Promotion
The Parties shall co-operate in promoting trade and investment activities by
private enterprises of the Parties, recognising that efforts of the Parties to
facilitate exchange and collaboration between private enterprises of the
Parties will act as a catalyst to promote trade and investment in Japan,
Singapore and Asia.
Article 127
Review and Recommendation under Chapter 17
1.
The Parties recognise that certain co-operation between parties, one or
both of whom are entities in their respective territories other than the
governments of the Parties, could contribute to trade and investment
