- Page 493 -
ANNEX VB
LIST OF EXCEPTIONS
IN THE AREA OF INVESTMENT
(Singapore)
Horizontal Exceptions
1. (a) Matter: Subsidies/Incentives for all sectors
(b) Legal Source or Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from
Authority: Income Tax) Act (Cap. 86), Income Tax Act (Cap.
134), Relevant Government Agencies
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: National Treatment
National treatment may not be accorded in the
provision of the following:
(A) subsidies/incentives or programmes to help
develop local entrepreneurs and to assist
local companies to expand and upgrade
their operations;
(B) subsidies/incentives pertaining to the supply
of service.
Prohibition of Performance Requirements
(i) Conditions that are inconsistent with sub-
paragraphs (a) through (e) of paragraph 1 of
Article 75 may be imposed for the receipt or
continued receipt of any advantage in
connection with an investment in the
services sector in Singapore.
(ii) For the avoidance of doubt, conditions or
requirements that are not listed in Article 75
may be imposed for the receipt or continued
receipt of any advantage in connection with
an investment in Singapore.- Page 494 -
2. (a) Matter: Company registration formalities for all sectors
(b) Legal Source or Companies Act (Cap. 50)
Authority:
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: Compliance by foreign companies with the
Companies Act in their establishment, and
reporting and filing of accounts
(i) Commercial presence, right of establishment
and movement of legal persons are subject
to compliance with the following provisions:
(A) a foreigner who wishes to register a
business firm must have a local
manager who should be:
(AA) a Singapore citizen;
(BB) a Singapore permanent
resident; or
(CC) a Singapore employment pass
holder.
However, a foreigner who is a
Singapore permanent resident or a
Singapore employment pass holder
can register a business without
appointing a local manager;
(B) at least one director of the company
must be locally resident;
(C) all branches of foreign companies
registered in Singapore must have at
least two locally resident agents. (To
qualify as locally resident, a person
should be either a Singapore citizen
or a Singapore permanent resident or
a Singapore employment pass
holder).
(ii) Establishment of a foreign company’s
branch is subject to the filing of necessary
documents.- Page 495 -
3. (a) Matter: Ownership of Residential Land/Property
(b) Legal Source or Residential Property Act (Cap. 274), Banking Act (Cap.
Authority: 19), Finance Companies Act (Cap. 108), Monetary
Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 186)
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73)
Obligation:
(d) Description: (i)  Ownership of residential land:
non-citizens cannot own residential land.
(ii) Ownership of residential property:
(A) non-citizens are restricted from
purchasing landed residential property
and residential property in a building of
less than 6 levels;
(B) non-citizens and non-Singapore
permanent residents cannot own
residential property under government
public housing schemes.
(iii) Housing loans:
banks, finance companies and merchant banks
are:
(A) not allowed to extend Singapore Dollar
(S$) loans to non-Singapore citizens
(excluding Singapore permanent
residents) and non-Singapore companies
for the purpose of purchasing residential
properties in Singapore. A company is
considered a Singapore company only if
it is incorporated in Singapore and
majority-owned by Singapore citizens.
Any company which is incorporated
outside Singapore is considered a non-
Singapore company. A company
incorporated in Singapore and majority-
owned by non-Singapore citizens and/or
Singapore permanent residents  is
considered a non-Singapore company;
(B) allowed to grant Singapore permanent
residents only one S$ loan each for the
purchase of a residential property in
Singapore which must be for owner-
occupation.- Page 496 -
4. (a) Matter: Regulation on Singapore dollar transactions
(b) Legal Source or Banking Act (Cap. 19), MAS Notice 757 to Banks,
Authority: Securities Industry Act (Cap. 289), MAS Notice
1201 to Securities Dealers, Finance Companies
Act (Cap. 108), MAS Notice 816 to Finance
Companies, Insurance Act (Cap. 142), MAS Notice
109 to Insurers, Monetary Authority of Singapore
Act (Cap. 186), MAS Notice 1105 to Merchant
Banks
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73)
Obligation:
(d) Description: (i) Where amounts exceed S$5 million per
entity,(Note 1) banks(Note 2) may extend S$
credit facilities to non-residents for any
purpose in Singapore or overseas, subject to
the following conditions:
Note 1: For financial institutions seeking to obtain S$
credit facilities, each subsidiary is considered
a separate entity while the head office and all
overseas branches are collectively regarded
as one entity.
Note 2: The restrictions in paragraph 4 of this Annex
describe the measures in MAS Notice 757 to
Banks. Similar measures are set out in MAS
Notice 1201 to Securities Dealers, MAS
Notice 816 to Finance Companies, MAS
Notice 109 to Insurers, and MAS Notice 1105
to Merchant Banks.
(A) for S$ investments in financial assets
and real estate, banks are required to
ensure that the S$ credit facilities are
withdrawn when the investments, or
part thereof, are in any way converted
into S$ cash proceeds;
(B) where the S$ proceeds are to be
used offshore, the proceeds should
be swapped into foreign currency
upon draw-down.  In this instance,
banks are not allowed to convert the
S$ proceeds into foreign currency via
the spot or forward market.  For S$
equity listings and bond issues by
non-residents wishing to tap S$
markets to finance their activities
offshore, non-residents are required
to swap or convert the S$ proceeds
into foreign currency for use offshore;- Page 497 -
(Notification is required for bond
issues by residents as well as non-
residents.)
(ii) where the bond issuer is an unrated foreign
entity, banks may place or sell the S$ bonds
to sophisticated investors(Note) only;
Note: “Sophisticated investors” is as defined in the
Companies Act (Cap. 50).
(iii) banks should not extend S$ credit facilities
to non-residents for speculative activities in
the S$ currency market;
(iv) banks may lend in any amount S$-
denominated securities to non-residents as
long as it is fully collateralised with S$ cash
or other S$ assets upon the extension of the
S$-denominated securities loan;
(v) banks may transact with non-residents S$
currency options as long as there is a
requirement to hedge the S$ exchange rate
risks arising from trade with, or economic
and financial activities in, Singapore. This is
subject to the following conditions:
(A) the S$ option should have cashflows
matching the S$/foreign currency
flows if the option is exercised;
(B) the S$ option offered must not be
combined with a spot or any other
transaction to constitute a S$ credit
facility that would not be permitted
under MAS Notice 757;
(C) there must be documentary evidence
of the non-resident's need to hedge
its trade with, or its economic and
financial activities in, Singapore.
(The above limitation shall not be construed as
causing a delay in transfers as defined in Article
80.)- Page 498 -
5. (a) Matter: Privatisation
(b) Legal Source or N/A
Authority:
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: National treatment and prohibition of performance
requirements shall not apply to the privatisation or
divestment of assets owned by the Government.- Page 499 -
Sectoral Exceptions
6. (a) Sector: Investments in Services
(b) Legal Source or N/A
Authority:
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: (i) National treatment and prohibition of
performance requirements shall not apply to
services sectors not scheduled in Chapter 7.
Where a service sector is scheduled in
Chapter 7, the provisions, terms, limitations,
conditions and qualifications in Chapter 7
(including market access measures) shall
apply to investments in that service sector
under Chapter 8.
(ii) For the avoidance of doubt, the scheduled
services in the telecommunications and
financial sectors shall also be interpreted in
accordance with Annexes IVAand IVB.- Page 500 -
7. (a) Sector: Printing and Publishing Sector
(b) Legal Source or Newspaper and Printing Presses Act  (Cap. 206),
Authority: Ministry of Information, Communications and the
Arts
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: National treatment and prohibition of performance
requirements shall not apply to the printing and
publishing sector.- Page 501 -
8. (a) Sector: Arms and Explosives Sector
(b) Legal Source or Arms and Explosives Act (Cap. 13)
Authority:
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: National treatment and prohibition of performance
requirements shall not apply to the arms and
explosives sector.- Page 502 -
9. (a) Sector: Manufacturing Sector
(b) Legal Source or Control of Manufacture Act (Cap. 57)
Authority:
(c) Relevant National Treatment (Article 73), Prohibition of
Obligation: Performance Requirements (Article 75)
(d) Description: Statutory licensing requirements and conditions
that are inconsistent with Article 73 or sub-
paragraphs (f) to (i) of paragraph 1 of Article 75
may be imposed in connection with the
manufacture of the following:
(i) firecrackers;
(ii) drawn steel products;
(iii) pig iron and sponge iron;
(iv) rolled steel products;
(v) steel ingots, billets, blooms and slabs;
(vi) beer and stout;
(vii) CD, CD-ROM, VCD;
(viii) DVD, DVD-ROM;
(ix) chewing gum, bubble gum, dental chewing
gum or any like substance;
(x) cigarettes;
(xi) matches;
(xii) cigars;
(xiii) refrigerators;
(xiv) air-conditioners.