- Page 43 -
(c)
to any service supplier that is a juridical person, if it establishes
that the service supplier is neither a “service supplier of the
other Party” as defined in sub-paragraph (j) of paragraph 6 of
Article 58 nor a “service supplier other than those of the Parties”
granted benefits under Article 62.
CHAPTER 8
INVESTMENT
Article 71
Scope of Chapter 8
1.
This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party
relating to:
(a)
investors of the other Party in the territory of the former Party;
and
(b)
investments of investors of the other Party in the territory of the
former Party.
2.
This Chapter shall not apply to government procurement.
3.
Movement of natural persons who are investors shall be governed by
Chapter 9.
Article 72
Definitions under Chapter 8
For the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) 
the term “investments” means every kind of asset owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by an investor, including:
(i)
an enterprise;
(ii)
shares, stocks or other forms of equity participation in an
enterprise, including rights derived therefrom;
(iii)
bonds, debentures, and loans and other forms of
debt,(Note) including rights derived therefrom;
(iv)
rights under contracts, including turnkey, construction,
management, production or revenue-sharing contracts;
(v)
claims to money and claims to any performance under
contract(Note) having a financial value;
Note:
For the purposes of this Chapter, “loans and other forms of debt”
described in (iii) of sub-paragraph (a) of Article 72 and “claims to
money and claims to any performance under contract” described in
- Page 44 -
(v) of sub-paragraph (a) of Article 72 refer to assets which relate to
a business activity and do not refer to assets which are of a
personal nature, unrelated to any business activity.
(vi) 
intellectual property rights, including trademarks,
industrial designs, layout-designs of integrated circuits,
copyrights, patents, trade names, indications of source or
geographical indications and undisclosed information;
(vii) 
rights conferred pursuant to laws and regulations or
contracts such as concessions, licences, authorisations,
and permits; and
(viii)
any other tangible and intangible, movable and
immovable property, and any related property rights, such
as leases, mortgages, liens and pledges;
(b)
the term “investments” also includes amounts yielded by
investments, in particular, profit, interest, capital gains,
dividends, royalties and fees.  A change in the form in which
assets are invested does not affect their character as
investments;
(c)
the term “investor” means any person that seeks to make, is
making, or has made, investments;
(d)
the term “person” means either a natural person or an
enterprise;
(e)
the term “investor of the other Party” means any natural person
of the other Party or any enterprise of the other Party;
(f)
the term “natural person of the other Party” means a natural
person who resides in the territory of the other Party or
elsewhere and who under the law of the other Party:
(i)
in respect of Japan, is a national of Japan; and
(ii)
in respect of Singapore, is a national of Singapore or has
the right of permanent residence in Singapore;
(g)
the term “enterprise” means any legal person or any other entity
duly constituted or otherwise organised under applicable law,
whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned or
controlled or governmentally-owned or controlled, including any
corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship,
association, organisation, company or branch;
(h)
the term “enterprise of the other Party” means any enterprise
duly constituted or otherwise organised under applicable law of
the other Party, except an enterprise owned or controlled by
- Page 45 -
persons of non-Parties and not engaging in substantive
business operations in the territory of the other Party; and
(i)
an enterprise is:
(i)
“owned” by persons of non-Parties if more than 50
percent of the equity interest in it is beneficially owned by
persons of non-Parties; and
(ii)
“controlled” by persons of non-Parties if such persons
have the power to name a majority of its directors or
otherwise to legally direct its actions.
Article 73
National Treatment under Chapter 8
Each Party shall within its territory accord to investors of the other Party and
to their investments in relation to the establishment, acquisition, expansion,
management, operation, maintenance, use, possession, liquidation, sale, or
other disposition of investments, treatment no less favourable than the
treatment which it accords in like circumstances to its own investors and
investments (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “national treatment”).
Article 74
Access to the Courts of Justice
Each Party shall within its territory accord to investors of the other Party
treatment no less favourable than the treatment which it accords in like
circumstances to its own investors, with respect to access to its courts of
justice and administrative tribunals and agencies in all degrees of jurisdiction
both in pursuit and in defence of such investors’ rights.
Article 75
Prohibition of Performance Requirements
1. 
Neither Party shall impose or enforce any of the following requirements
as a condition for the establishment, acquisition, expansion, management,
operation, maintenance, use or possession of investments in its territory of an
investor of the other Party:
(a)
to export a given level or percentage of goods or services;
(b)
to achieve a given level or percentage of domestic content;
(c)
to purchase or use goods produced or services provided in the
territory of the former Party, or to purchase goods or services
from natural or legal persons in the territory of the former Party;
(d)
to relate the volume or value of imports to the volume or value of
exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows associated
with such investments;
- Page 46 -
(e)
to restrict sales of goods or services in the territory of the former
Party that such investments produce or provide by relating such
sales to the volume or value of its exports or foreign exchange
earnings;
(f)
to transfer technology, a production process or other proprietary
knowledge to a natural or legal person of the former Party,
except when the requirement:
(i)
is imposed or enforced by a court, administrative tribunal
or competition authority to remedy an alleged violation of
competition laws; or
(ii)
concerns the transfer of intellectual property which is
undertaken in a manner not inconsistent with the
Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights in Annex 1C to the WTO Agreement;
(g)
to locate its headquarters for a specific region or the world
market in the territory of the former Party;
(h)
to achieve a given level or value of research and development in
the territory of the former Party; or
(i)
to supply one or more of the goods that it produces or the
services that it provides to a specific region outside the territory
of the former Party exclusively from the territory of the former
Party.
2.
Each Party is not precluded by paragraph 1 above from conditioning
the receipt or continued receipt of an advantage, in connection with
investments in its territory of an investor of the other Party, on compliance
with any of the requirements set forth in sub-paragraphs (f) through (i) of
paragraph 1 above.
3.
Nothing in this Article shall be construed so as to derogate from the
obligations of the Parties under the Agreement on Trade Related Investment
Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement.
Article 76
Specific Exceptions
1.
Articles 73 and 75 shall not apply to investors and investments, in
respect of:
(a)
any exception specified by the Parties in Annexes VA and VB;
and
(b)
an amendment or modification to any exception referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) above, provided that the amendment or
- Page 47 -
modification does not decrease the level of conformity of the
exception with Articles 73 and 75.
2.
The exceptions referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 above
shall include the following elements, to the extent that these elements are
applicable:
(a)
sector or matter;
(b)
obligation or article in respect of which the exception is taken;
(c)
legal source or authority of the exception; and
(d)
succinct description of the exception.
3.
If a Party makes an amendment or modification referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article, that Party shall, prior to the
implementation of the amendment or modification, or in exceptional
circumstances, as soon as possible thereafter:
(a)
notify the other Party of the elements set out in paragraph 2
above; and
(b)
provide to the other Party, upon request, particulars of the
amended or modified exception.
4.
Each Party shall endeavour, where appropriate, to reduce or eliminate
the exceptions specified in Annexes VA and VB respectively.
Article 77
Expropriation and Compensation
1.
Each Party shall accord to investments in its territory of investors of the
other Party fair and equitable treatment and full protection and security.
2.
Neither Party shall expropriate or nationalise investments in its territory
of an investor of the other Party or take any measure equivalent to
expropriation or nationalisation (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as
“expropriation”) except for a public purpose, on a non-discriminatory basis, in
accordance with due process of law, and upon payment of compensation in
accordance with this Article.
3.
Compensation shall be equivalent to the fair market value of the
expropriated investments.  The fair market value shall not reflect any change
in market value occurring because the expropriation had become publicly
known earlier, but may, insofar as such expropriation relates to land, reflect
the market value before the expropriation occurred, the trend in the market
value, and adjustments to the market value in accordance with the laws of the
expropriating Party concerning expropriation.
4.
The compensation shall be paid without delay and shall carry an
appropriate interest taking into account the length of time from the time of
- Page 48 -
expropriation until the time of payment.  It shall be effectively realisable and
freely transferable and shall be freely convertible, at the market exchange rate
prevailing on the date of the expropriation, into the currency of the Party of the
investors concerned and freely usable currencies defined in the Articles of
Agreement of the International Monetary Fund.
5.
The investors affected by expropriation shall have a right of access to
the courts of justice or the administrative tribunals or agencies of the Party
making the expropriation to seek a prompt review of the investor's case or the
amount of compensation that has been assessed in accordance with the
principles set out in this Article.
Article 78
Repurchase of Leases
If an agency of the government of a Party responsible for leasing industrial
land repurchases a leasehold interest in land owned by an investor of the
other Party, that agency shall take into consideration the following matters:
(a)
the value attributable to the remaining period of such leasehold
interest;
(b)
priority allocation by the agency of a suitable, alternative
property for the investor; and
(c)
reasonable relocation costs that would be incurred by the
investor in relocating to the alternative property within the
territory of the Party.
Article 79
Protection from Strife
1.
Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party that have
suffered loss or damage relating to their investments in the territory of the
former Party due to armed conflict, or state of emergency such as revolution,
insurrection and civil disturbance, treatment, as regards restitution,
indemnification, compensation or any other settlement, that is no less
favourable than that which it accords to its own investors.
2.
Any payments made pursuant to paragraph 1 above shall be effectively
realisable, freely convertible and freely transferable.
Article 80
Transfers
1.
Each Party shall allow all payments relating to investments in its
territory of an investor of the other Party to be freely transferred into and out of
its territory without delay.  Such transfers shall include:
(a)
the initial capital and additional amounts to maintain or increase
investments;
- Page 49 -
(b)
profits, capital gains, dividends, royalties, interests and other
current incomes accruing from investments;
(c)
proceeds from the total or partial sale or liquidation of
investments;
(d)
payments made under a contract including loan payments in
connection with investments;
(e)
earnings of investors of a Party who work in connection with
investments in the territory of the other Party;
(f)
payments made in accordance with Articles 77 and 79; and
(g)
payments arising out of the settlement of a dispute under Article
82.
2.
Each Party shall allow transfers to be made without delay in a freely
usable currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing on the date of
transfer.
3.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2 above, a Party may delay or
prevent a transfer through the equitable, non-discriminatory and good-faith
application of its laws relating to:
(a)
bankruptcy, insolvency or the protection of the rights of
creditors;
(b)
the issuing, trading or dealing in securities;
(c)
criminal matters;
(d)
ensuring compliance with orders or judgements in adjudicatory
proceedings; or
(e)
obligations of investors arising from social security and public
retirement plans.
Article 81
Subrogation
1.
If a Party or its designated agency makes a payment to any of its
investors pursuant to an indemnity, guarantee or contract of insurance, arising
from or pertaining to an investment of that investor within the territory of the
other Party, the other Party shall:
(a)
recognise the assignment, to the former Party or its designated
agency, of any right or claim of such investor that formed the
basis of such payment; and
- Page 50 -
(b)
recognise the right of the former Party or its designated agency
to exercise by virtue of subrogation any such right or claim to the
same extent as the original right or claim of the investor.
2.
Paragraphs 2 to 5 of Article 77, and Articles 79 and 80, shall apply
mutatis mutandis as regards payment to be made to the Party or its
designated agency first mentioned in paragraph 1 above by virtue of such
assignment of right or claim, and the transfer of such payment.
Article 82
Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Party and an investor of
the other Party
1.
For the purposes of this Chapter, an investment dispute is a dispute
between a Party and an investor of the other Party that has incurred loss or
damage by reason of, or arising out of, an alleged breach of any right
conferred by this Chapter with respect to the investments of the investor of
that other Party.
2.
In the event of an investment dispute, such investment dispute shall, as
far as possible, be settled amicably through consultations between the parties
to the investment dispute.
3.
If an investment dispute cannot be settled through such consultations
within five months from the date on which the investor requested for the
consultations in writing, and if the investor concerned has not submitted the
investment dispute for resolution (i) under administrative or judicial settlement,
or (ii) in accordance with any applicable, previously agreed dispute settlement
procedures, that investor may either:
(a) 
request the establishment of an arbitral tribunal in accordance
with the procedures set out in Annex Vc and submit the
investment dispute to that tribunal;
(b)
submit the investment dispute to conciliation or arbitration in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the
Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and
Nationals of Other States done at Washington, March 18, 1965
(hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “the ICSID
Convention”), so long as the ICSID Convention is in force
between the Parties, or conciliation or arbitration under the
Additional Facility Rules of the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes (hereinafter referred to in this
Chapter as “ICSID”) so long as the ICSID Convention is not in
force between the Parties; or
(c)
submit the investment dispute to arbitration under the Arbitration
Rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law, adopted by the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law on April 28, 1976.
- Page 51 -
4.
Each Party hereby consents to the submission of investment disputes
to international conciliation or arbitration as provided for in paragraph 3 above,
in accordance with the provisions of this Article, provided that:
(a)
less than three years have elapsed since the date the investor
knew or ought to have known, whichever is the earlier, of the
loss or damage which, it is alleged, has been incurred by the
investor; and
(b)
in the case of arbitration in accordance with the provisions of the
ICSID Convention referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph
3 above, if the Chairman of ICSID is asked to appoint an
arbitrator or arbitrators pursuant to Article 38 or 56(3) of the
ICSID Convention, the Chairman:
(i)
allows both the Party and the investor to each indicate up
to three nationalities, the appointment of arbitrators of
which pursuant to Article 38 or 56(3) of the ICSID
Convention is unacceptable to it; and
(ii)
does not appoint as arbitrator any person who is, by
virtue of sub-paragraph (i) above, excluded by either the
Party or the investor or both the Party and the investor.
5. 
When the condition set out in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 4 above
is not met, the consent given in paragraph 4 above shall be invalidated.
6. 
When the conditions set out in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 4 of this
Article are not met, the consent to arbitration by ICSID given in paragraph 4 of
this Article shall be invalidated. In such circumstances, a different method of
dispute settlement can be chosen from among those methods provided for in
paragraph 3 of this Article other than ICSID arbitration.
7.
Paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article shall not apply if an investor which is
an enterprise of a Party owned or controlled by persons of non-Parties
submits an investment dispute with respect to its investments in the territory of
the other Party, unless the investments concerned have been established,
acquired or expanded in the territory of that other Party.
8. 
An investor to an investment dispute who intends to submit an
investment dispute pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article shall give to the
Party that is a party to the investment dispute written notice of intent to do so
at least 90 days before the claim is submitted.  The notice of intent shall
specify:
(a)
the name and address of the investor concerned;
(b)
the specific measures of that Party at issue and a brief summary
of the factual and legal basis of the dispute sufficient to present
the problem clearly, including the provisions of this Chapter
alleged to have been breached; and
- Page 52 -
(c)
the dispute settlement procedures set forth in sub-paragraph (a),
(b) or (c) of paragraph 3 of this Article which the investor will
seek.
9. 
When an investor of a Party submits an investment dispute pursuant to
paragraph 3 of this Article and the disputing Party invokes Article 84 or 85, the
arbitrators to be selected shall, on the request of the disputing Party or
investor, have the necessary expertise relevant to the specific financial
matters under dispute.
10.
(a)
The award shall include:
(i)
a judgement whether or not there has been a breach by a
Party of any rights conferred by this Chapter in respect of
the investor of the other Party and its investments; and
(ii)
a remedy if there has been such breach.
(b)
The award rendered in accordance with sub-paragraph (a)
above shall be final and binding upon the Party and the investor,
except to the extent provided for in sub-paragraphs (c) and (d)
below.
(c)
Where an award provides that there has been a breach by a
Party of any rights conferred by this Chapter in respect of the
investor of the other Party and its investments, the Party to the
dispute is entitled to implement the award through one of the
following remedies, in lieu of the remedy indicated pursuant to
(ii) of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph:
(i)
pecuniary compensation, including interest from the time
the loss or damage was incurred until time of payment;
(ii)
restitution in kind; or
(iii)
pecuniary compensation and restitution in combination,
provided that:
(A)
the Party notifies the investor, within 30 days after the
date of the award, that it will implement the award
through one of the remedies indicated in (i), (ii) or (iii) of
this sub-paragraph; and
(B)
where the Party chooses to implement the award in
accordance with (i) or (iii) of this sub-paragraph, the Party
and the investor agree as to the amount of pecuniary
compensation, or in lieu of such agreement, a decision
pursuant to sub-paragraph (d) below is made.
(d)
If the Party and the investor are unable to agree, within 60 days
after the date of the award, as to the amount of pecuniary
- Page 53 -
compensation as provided for in (B) of sub-paragraph (c) above,
the matter may be referred, by either the Party or the investor, to
the arbitral tribunal that rendered the award.  The award on the
amount of pecuniary compensation in accordance with this
paragraph is final and binding on both the Party and the
investor.
(e)
The award shall be executed by the applicable laws and
regulations concerning the execution of such awards in force in
the Party in whose territory such execution is sought.
11.
Nothing in this Article shall be construed so as to prevent an investor to
an investment dispute from seeking administrative or judicial settlement within
the territory of the Party that is a party to the investment dispute.
12.
Neither Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an international
claim, in respect of an investment dispute which one of its investors and the
other Party shall have consented to submit or shall have submitted to
arbitration under this Article, unless such other Party shall have failed to abide
by and comply with the award rendered in such dispute.  Diplomatic
protection, for the purposes of this paragraph, shall not include informal
diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a settlement of the
dispute.
Article 83
General Exceptions under Chapter 8
1.
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a
manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable
discrimination against the other Party, or a disguised restriction on
investments of investors of a Party in the territory of the other Party, nothing in
this Chapter shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by
either Party of measures:
(a)
necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public
order;(Note)
Note:
The public order exception may be invoked only where a genuine and
sufficiently serious threat is posed to one of the fundamental interests of
society.
(b)
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;
(c)
necessary to secure compliance with the laws or regulations
which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement
including those relating to:
(i)
the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to
deal with the effects of a default on contract;
(ii)
the protection of the privacy of the individual in relation to
the processing and dissemination of personal data and
- Page 54 -
the protection of confidentiality of personal records and
accounts;
(iii)
safety;
(d)
relating to prison labour;
(e)
imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic,
historic, or archaeological value;
(f)
to conserve exhaustible natural resources if such measures are
made effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic
production or consumption.
2. 
In cases where a Party takes any measure pursuant to paragraph 1
above or Article 4, which it implements after this Agreement comes into force,
such Party shall make reasonable effort to notify the other Party of the
description of the measure either before such measure is taken or as soon as
possible thereafter, if such measure could affect investments or investors of
the other Party in respect of obligations made under this Chapter.
Article 84
Temporary Safeguard
1.
A Party may adopt or maintain measures inconsistent with its
obligations provided for in Article 73 relating to cross-border capital
transactions or Article 80:
(a) 
in the event of serious balance-of-payments or external financial
difficulties or threat thereof; or
(b) 
where, in exceptional circumstances, movements of capital
result in serious economic and financial disturbance in the Party
concerned.
2.
The measures referred to in paragraph 1 above:
(a) 
shall be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Monetary Fund;
(b) 
shall not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances
described in paragraph 1 above;
(c) 
shall be temporary and shall be eliminated as soon as
conditions permit;
(d) 
shall promptly be notified to the other Party;
(e)
shall not discriminate between the Parties;
(f)
shall ensure that the other Party is treated as favourably as any
non-Party; and
- Page 55 -
(g)
shall avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic
and financial interests of the other Party.
3.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be regarded as affecting the rights
enjoyed and obligations undertaken by a Party as a party to the Articles of
Agreement of the International Monetary Fund.
Article 85
Prudential Measures
1.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, a Party shall not
be prevented from taking measures for prudential reasons, including
measures for the protection of investors, depositors, policy holders or persons
to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by an enterprise supplying financial services,
or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial system.
2.
Where such measures do not conform with the provisions of this
Chapter, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party's
commitments or obligations under this Chapter.
Article 86
Intellectual Property Rights
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 73, the Parties agree in respect of
intellectual property rights that national treatment as provided for in that Article
shall apply only to the extent as provided for in the Agreement on Trade-
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights in Annex 1C to the WTO
Agreement.
Article 87
Taxation Measures as Expropriation
1.
Article 77 shall apply to taxation measures, to the extent that such
taxation measures constitute expropriation as provided for in paragraph 2 of
Article 77.
2.
Where paragraph 1 above applies, Articles 74, 82, 88 and paragraph 1
of Article 89 shall also apply in respect of taxation measures.
Article 88
Joint Committee on Investment
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Investment (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established. The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing the implementation and operation of
this Chapter;
(b)
reviewing the specific exceptions under paragraph 1 of Article
76 for the purpose of contributing to the reduction or elimination,
- Page 56 -
where appropriate, of such exceptions, and encouraging
favourable conditions for investors of both Parties; and
(c)
discussing other investment related issues concerning this
Chapter.
2.
The Committee may decide to hold a joint meeting with the private
sector.
Article 89
Application of Chapter 8
1.
In fulfilling the obligations under this Chapter, each Party shall take
such reasonable measures as are available to it to ensure observance by its
local governments and non-governmental bodies in the exercise of power
delegated by central or local governments within its territory.
2.
If a Party has entered into an international agreement on investment
with a non-Party, or enters into such an agreement after this Agreement
comes into force, it shall favourably consider according to investors of the
other Party and to their investments, treatment, in relation to the
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, operation, maintenance,
use, possession, liquidation, sale, or other disposition of investments, no less
favourable than the treatment that it accords in like circumstances to investors
of that non-Party and their investments pursuant to such an agreement.
CHAPTER 9
MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS
Article 90
Scope of Chapter 9
1.
This Chapter applies to measures affecting the movement of natural
persons of a Party who enter the territory of the other Party for business
purposes.
2.
This Agreement shall not apply to measures regarding nationality or
citizenship, residence on a permanent basis or employment on a permanent
basis.
Article 91
Definitions under Chapter 9
The term “natural person of the other Party” means a natural person who
resides in the territory of the other Party or elsewhere and who under the law
of the other Party:
(a)
in respect of Japan, is a national of Japan; and
