- Page 71 -
Article 134
Exchange of Views between Regulatory Authorities
The Parties, recognising that mutual understanding of the broadcasting
services in the respective Parties will enhance the ability of competent
authorities of the Parties to work together, and that strengthening the
relationship between regulatory authorities of the Parties will enable the
Parties to better cope with the emergence of new broadcasting services, shall
exchange views and information on issues relating to the field of
broadcasting, which may include:
(a)
broadcasting policy issues; and
(b)
newly emerging broadcasting services.
Article 135
Joint Committee on Broadcasting
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Broadcasting (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing the co-operative relationship between
the Parties in the field of broadcasting;
(b)
identifying and recommending further co-operation areas
between the Parties; and
(c)
discussing other issues concerning the effective implementation
of this Chapter.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 20
TOURISM
Article 136
Co-operation in the Field of Tourism
The Parties, recognising that tourism will contribute to the enhancement of
mutual understanding between the Parties and that tourism is an important
industry for their economies, shall co-operate to promote and develop tourism
in the Parties.
- Page 72 -
Article 137
Tourism Promotion and Development
The Parties shall encourage co-operation between parties, one or both of
whom are entities in their respective territories other than the governments of
the Parties, concerning the promotion and development of tourism in the
Parties.
Article 138
Joint Committee on Tourism
1. 
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Tourism (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing issues concerning the effective
implementation of this Chapter;
(b)
exchanging views and information on promotion and
development of tourism;
(c) 
identifying and recommending ways of further co-operation
between the Parties; and
(d) 
discussing other issues relating to tourism.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 21
DISPUTE AVOIDANCE AND SETTLEMENT
Article 139
Scope of Chapter 21
1.
This Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance and settlement
of disputes between the Parties concerning the interpretation or application of
this Agreement or the Implementing Agreement.
2.
Nothing in this Chapter shall prejudice any rights of the Parties to have
recourse to dispute settlement procedures available under any other
international agreement to which they are parties.
3.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, once a dispute settlement
procedure has been initiated under this Chapter or under any other
international agreement to which the Parties are parties with respect to a
particular dispute, that procedure shall be used to the exclusion of any other
procedure for that particular dispute.  However, this does not apply if
substantially separate and distinct rights or obligations under different
international agreements are in dispute.
