- Page 506 -
ANNEX VI
SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS OF JAPAN
FOR THE MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS
PART A
There may be limitations on the treatment accorded under this Part to natural
persons who are permanent residents of Singapore, where Japan adopts or
maintains measures pursuant to its domestic laws and regulations whose
implementation would be prejudiced if the treatment accorded to natural persons who
are permanent residents of Singapore is equivalent to the treatment accorded to
natural persons who are nationals of Singapore.
Such measures include those taken in accordance with the provisions of the
Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act (Cabinet Order No. 319, 1951).
A.
Short-term business visitors
Entry and temporary stay will be granted to a natural person of Singapore who stays
in Japan for a period not exceeding 90 days without acquiring remuneration from
within Japan and without engaging in making direct sales to the general public or in
supplying services himself, for the purposes of participating in business contacts
including negotiations for the sale of goods or services, or other similar activities
including those to prepare for establishing commercial presence in Japan.
B.
Intra-corporate transferees
1. 
Entry and temporary stay will be granted to a natural person of Singapore
who has been employed by a juridical person of Singapore that supplies services in
Japan or by an enterprise of Singapore that invests in Japan for a period not less
than one year immediately preceding the date of his application for the entry and
temporary stay in Japan, and who is being transferred to a branch office, a juridical
person or an enterprise constituted or registered in Japan owned or controlled by the
aforementioned juridical person or enterprise of Singapore, provided that he will be
engaged in one of the following activities:
(a)
activities to direct a branch office as its head;
(b)
activities to direct a juridical person or an enterprise as its board
member or auditor;
(c)
activities to direct one or more departments of a juridical person or an
enterprise;
(d)
activities which require technology and/or knowledge at an advanced
level pertinent to physical sciences, engineering or other natural
sciences, including information and communications technology; or
(e)
activities which require knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to
jurisprudence, economics, business management, accounting or other
human sciences.
Activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to
natural or human sciences referred to in sub-paragraphs (d) and (e) above mean
- Page 507 -
activities in which the natural person may not be able to engage without the application
of specialised technology or knowledge of natural or human sciences acquired by him,
in principle, by completing college education (i.e. bachelor's degree) or higher
education.
2.
Entry and temporary stay will be granted to a natural person of Singapore
who has been employed by a juridical person of Singapore or has been a partner in it
for a period not less than one year immediately preceding the date of his application
for the entry and temporary stay in Japan, and who is being transferred to Japan and
will return to the aforementioned juridical person of Singapore, provided that he will
be engaged in one of the following activities of professional services which may be
engaged only as a natural person and not as an employee:
(a)
legal services supplied by a lawyer qualified as “Bengoshi” under
Japanese law;
(b)
consultancy on law of jurisdiction where the service supplier is a
qualified lawyer;
(c)
legal services supplied by a patent attorney qualified as “Benrishi”
under Japanese law;
(d)
legal services supplied by a maritime procedure agent qualified as
“Kaijidairishi” under Japanese law;
(e)
accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services supplied by an
accountant qualified as “Koninkaikeishi” under Japanese law; or
(f)
taxation services supplied by a tax accountant qualified as “Zeirishi”
under Japanese law.
PART B
There may be limitations on the treatment accorded to natural persons who are
permanent residents of Singapore, where Japan adopts or maintains measures
pursuant to its domestic laws and regulations whose implementation would be
prejudiced if the treatment accorded to natural persons who are permanent residents
of Singapore is equivalent to the treatment accorded to natural persons who are
nationals of Singapore.
Such measures include those taken in accordance with the provisions of the
Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act (Cabinet Order No. 319, 1951).
A.
Investors
Entry and temporary stay will be granted to a natural person of Singapore who is
engaged in the activities to commence the operation of business in Japan, to invest
in business in Japan and to operate or manage that business, excluding the activities
to engage in the operation or management of business which are required to be
carried out by “Gaikokuhojimubengoshi”, “Gaikokukoninkaikeishi” or those with other
legal qualifications. Entry and temporary stay may be granted as long as the person
concerned continues to meet the criteria and conditions stipulated at the time of his
entry into Japan.
- Page 508 -
B.
Natural persons who engage in work on the basis of a personal contract
with public or private organisations in the territory of Japan
Entry and temporary stay will be granted to a natural person of Singapore who
engages in work which requires technology and/or knowledge pertinent to
engineering on the basis of a personal contract with public or private organisations in
the territory of Japan. Entry and temporary stay may be granted as long as such
person concerned continues to meet the criteria and conditions stipulated at the time
of his entry into Japan.
