- Page 7 -
Article 10
General Review
The Parties shall undertake a general review of the operation of this
Agreement in 2007 and every five years thereafter.
CHAPTER 2
TRADE IN GOODS
Article 11
Definitions under Chapter 2
For the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) the term “originating goods of the other Party” means goods of
the other Party which are treated as originating goods in
accordance with Chapter 3;
(b) the term “other duties or charges” means those provided for in
sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 of Article II of GATT 1994;
(c) the term “customs value of goods” means the value of goods for
the purposes of levying ad valorem customs duties on imported
goods;
(d) the term “transition period” means the period of 10 years
immediately following the entry into force of this Agreement;
(e) the term “serious injury” means a significant overall impairment
in the position of a domestic industry;
(f) the term “threat of serious injury” means serious injury that, on
the basis of facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture or
remote possibility, is clearly imminent; and
(g) the term “domestic industry” means the producers as a whole of
the like or directly competitive good operating in the territory of a
Party, or those whose collective output of the like or directly
competitive good constitutes a major proportion of the total
domestic production of the good.
Article 12
Classification of Goods
The classification of goods in trade between the Parties shall be in conformity
with the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (hereinafter
referred to in this Agreement as “the Harmonized System”).- Page 8 -
Article 13
National Treatment under Chapter 2
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in
accordance with Article III of GATT 1994.
Article 14
Elimination of Customs Duties
1. Each Party shall eliminate its customs duties on goods of the other
Party in accordance with its Schedule in Annex I.  The preferential tariff
treatment shall be accorded only to originating goods of the other Party whose
importation meets the consignment criteria provided for in Article 27.
2. On the request of either Party, the Parties shall consult to consider:
(a) accelerating the elimination of customs duties on goods as set
out in the Schedules in Annex I; or
(b) scheduling the elimination of customs duties on goods that are
not yet set out in the Schedules in Annex I.
3. Any agreement for the further liberalisation of trade in goods reached
as a result of consultations pursuant to paragraph 2 above shall be reflected
in Annex I.
4. Each Party shall eliminate other duties or charges of any kind imposed
on or in connection with the importation of goods of the other Party, if any.
Neither Party shall increase or introduce other duties or charges of any kind
imposed on or in connection with the importation of goods of the other Party.
5. Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from imposing, at any time,
on the importation of any goods of the other Party:
(a) a charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article III of GATT 1994 in
respect of the like domestic product or in respect of an article
from which the imported product has been manufactured or
produced in whole or in part;
(b) any anti-dumping or countervailing duty applied consistently with
the provisions of Article VI of GATT 1994, the Agreement on
Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;
and
(c) fees or other charges commensurate with the cost of services
rendered.- Page 9 -
Article 15
Customs Valuation
The Parties shall apply the provisions of Part I of the Agreement on
Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to in this
Agreement as “the Agreement on Customs Valuation”) for the purposes of
determining the customs value of goods traded between the Parties.
Article 16
Export Duties
Neither Party shall adopt or maintain any duties on goods exported from its
territory into the territory of the other Party.
Article 17
Non-tariff Measures
Each Party shall:
(a) not institute or maintain any non-tariff measures on the
importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation
or sale for export of any good destined for the territory of the
other Party which are inconsistent with its obligations under the
WTO Agreement; and
(b) ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures permitted
under paragraph (a) above and their full compliance with its
obligations under the WTO Agreement with a view to minimising
possible distortion to trade to the maximum extent possible.
Article 18
Emergency Measures
1. Subject to the provisions of this Article, each Party may, only during the
transition period and to the minimum extent necessary to prevent or remedy
the injury and to facilitate adjustment:
(a) suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty on the
good provided for in this Chapter; or
(b) increase the rate of customs duty on the good to a level not to
exceed the lesser of:
(i) the most-favoured-nation applied rate of customs duty in
effect at the time when the measure set out in this
paragraph is taken; and
(ii) the most-favoured-nation applied rate of customs duty in
effect on the day immediately preceding the date of entry
into force of this Agreement;- Page 10 -
if an originating good of the other Party, which is accorded the
preferential tariff treatment provided for in Article 14, as a result of the
reduction or elimination of a customs duty, is being imported into the
territory of the former Party in such increased quantities, in absolute
terms, and under such conditions that the imports of that originating
good alone constitute a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat
thereof, to a domestic industry of the former Party.
2.  A Party may take a measure set out in paragraph 1 above only after an
investigation has been carried out by the competent authorities of that Party in
accordance with the same procedures as those provided for in Article 3 and
paragraph 2 of Article 4 of the Agreement on Safeguards in Annex 1A to the
WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “the Agreement on
Safeguards”).  The investigation shall in all cases be completed within one
year following its date of institution.
3. The following conditions and limitations shall apply to the taking of a
measure pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article:
(a) a Party shall immediately deliver a written notice to the other
Party upon:
(i) initiating an investigatory process relating to serious
injury, or threat thereof, and the reasons for it;
(ii) making a finding of serious injury, or threat thereof,
caused by increased imports; and
(iii) taking a decision to apply such a measure;
(b) in making the notification referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above,
the Party proposing to apply a measure shall provide the other
Party with all pertinent information, which shall include evidence
of serious injury or threat thereof caused by the increased
imports, a precise description of the good involved and the
proposed measure, the proposed date of introduction of the
measure and its expected duration;
(c) a Party proposing to apply a measure shall provide adequate
opportunity for prior consultations with the other Party with a
view to reviewing the information arising from the investigation,
exchanging views on the measure and reaching an agreement
on compensation set out in paragraph 4 below. The Parties
shall, in such consultations, review, inter alia, the information
provided pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) above, to determine:
(i) whether the provisions of this Article have been complied
with;
(ii) whether any proposed measure should be taken; and- Page 11 -
(iii) whether any proposed measure would operate so as to
constitute an unnecessary obstacle to trade between the
Parties;
(d) no measure shall be maintained except to the extent and for
such time as may be necessary to prevent or remedy serious
injury and to facilitate adjustment provided that such time shall
not exceed a period of one year. In very exceptional
circumstances, after the prior consultations referred to in sub-
paragraph (c) above, a measure may be maintained for up to a
total maximum period of three years. A Party taking such
measure shall present to the other Party a schedule leading to
its progressive elimination;
(e) no measure shall be applied again to the import of a particular
originating good which has been subject to the measure during
the transition period; and
(f) upon the termination of the measure, the rate of customs duty
shall be the rate which would have been in effect but for the
measure.
4. A Party proposing to apply a measure set out in paragraph 1 of this
Article shall provide to the other Party mutually agreed adequate means of
trade compensation in the form of concessions of customs duties whose
levels are substantially equivalent to the value of the additional duties
expected to result from the measure. If the Parties are unable to agree on the
compensation within 30 days of the commencement of the consultations
pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 3 above, the Party against whose
originating good the measure is taken shall be free to suspend the application
of concessions of customs duties under this Agreement, which are
substantially equivalent to the measure applied under paragraph 1 of this
Article.  The Party exercising the right of suspension may suspend the
application of concessions of customs duties only for the minimum period
necessary to achieve the substantially equivalent effects.
5. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying safeguard
measures to a good being imported to that Party irrespective of its source,
including such a good being imported from the other Party, unless such
measures are inconsistent with Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Agreement
on Safeguards.
6. Each Party shall ensure the consistent, impartial and reasonable
administration of its laws, regulations and decisions governing proceedings of
the measure.
7. Each Party shall, to the extent provided by its laws and regulations,
maintain judicial tribunals or procedures for the purpose of the prompt review
of administrative actions relating to measures set out in paragraph 1 of this
Article. Such tribunals or procedures shall be independent of the authorities
responsible for the determination of the measure in question.- Page 12 -
8. Each Party shall adopt or maintain equitable, timely, transparent and
effective procedures relating to the measure.
Article 19
General Exceptions under Chapter 2
1. Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a
manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable
discrimination against the other Party, or a disguised restriction on trade in
goods between the Parties, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to
prevent the adoption or enforcement by either Party of measures:
(a) necessary to protect public morals;
(b) necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;
(c) relating to the importation or exportation of gold or silver;
(d) necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which
are not inconsistent with the provisions of GATT 1994, including
those relating to customs enforcement, the enforcement of
monopolies operated under paragraph 4 of Article II and Article
XVII of GATT 1994, the protection of patents, trade marks and
copyrights, and the prevention of deceptive practices;
(e) relating to the products of prison labour;
(f) imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic,
historic or archaeological value;
(g) relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if
such measures are made effective in conjunction with
restrictions on domestic production or consumption;
(h) undertaken in pursuance of obligations under any inter-
governmental commodity agreement which conforms to criteria
submitted to the members of the WTO and not disapproved by
them or which is itself so submitted and not so disapproved;
(i) involving restrictions on exports of domestic materials necessary
to ensure essential quantities of such materials to a domestic
processing industry during periods when the domestic price of
such materials is held below the world price as part of a
governmental stabilisation plan; provided that such restrictions
shall not operate to increase the exports of or the protection
afforded to such domestic industry, and shall not depart from the
provisions of GATT 1994 relating to non-discrimination; and
(j) essential to the acquisition or distribution of products in general
or local short supply; provided that any such measures shall be
consistent with the principle that all members of the WTO are- Page 13 -
entitled to an equitable share of the international supply of such
products, and that any such measures, which are inconsistent
with the other provisions of this Agreement shall be discontinued
as soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased to
exist.
2. In the application of paragraph 1 above, the relevant interpretations
and operation of the WTO Agreement shall, where appropriate, be taken into
account.
Article 20
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments under Chapter 2
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party from taking any
measure for balance-of-payments purposes.  A Party taking such measure
shall do so in accordance with the conditions established under Article XII of
GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments Provisions of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO
Agreement.
Article 21
Miscellaneous Provisions under Chapter 2
1. In fulfilling its obligations under this Chapter, each Party shall take such
reasonable measures as may be available to it to ensure the observance of
the provisions of this Chapter by local governments within its territory.
2. If a Party has entered into an international agreement on trade in
goods with a non-Party, or enters into such an agreement after this
Agreement comes into force, it shall favourably consider according to goods
originating in or destined for the territory of the other Party, treatment no less
favourable than the treatment which it accords to like goods originating in or
destined for the territory of that non-Party pursuant to such an agreement.
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF ORIGIN
Article 22
Definitions under Chapter 3
For the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) the term “material” includes ingredients, parts, components,
subassemblies and goods that were physically incorporated into
another good or were subject to a process in the production of
another good;
(b) the term “non-originating material” means a material whose
country of origin, as determined under this Chapter, is not the