- Page 383 -
ANNEX IVA
FINANCIAL SERVICES
I. Scope and Definitions
1.  This Annex applies to measures affecting the supply of financial
services.  Reference to the supply of a financial service in this Annex shall
mean the supply of a service as defined in sub-paragraph (o) of paragraph 6
of Article 58.
2. (a) For the purposes of this Annex:
(i) the term “financial service” means any service of a financial
nature offered by a financial service supplier of a Party. Financial
services include all insurance and insurance-related services,
and all banking and other financial services (excluding
insurance). Financial services include the following activities:
(A) Insurance and Insurance-Related Services
(AA) direct insurance (including co-insurance):
(aa) life
(bb) non-life
(BB) reinsurance and retrocession;
(CC) insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and
agency;
(DD) services auxiliary to insurance, such as
consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment and claim
settlement services;
(B) Banking and Other Financial Services (Excluding
Insurance)
(AA) acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds
from the public;
(BB) lending of all types, including consumer credit,
mortgage credit, factoring and financing of
commercial transaction;
(CC) financial leasing;
(DD) all payment and money transmission services,
including credit, charge and debit cards, travellers
cheques and bankers drafts;- Page 384 -
(EE) guarantees and commitments;
(FF) trading for own account or for account of
customers, whether on an exchange, in an over-
the-counter market or otherwise, the following:
(aa) money market instruments (including
cheques, bills, certificates of deposits);
(bb) foreign exchange;
(cc) derivative products including, but not limited
to, futures and options;
(dd) exchange rate and interest rate instruments,
including products such as swaps, forward
rate agreements;
(ee) transferable securities;
(ff) other negotiable instruments and financial
assets, including bullion;
(GG) participation in issues of all kinds of securities,
including underwriting and placement as agent
(whether publicly or privately) and provision of
services related to such issues;
(HH) money broking;
(II) asset management, such as cash or portfolio
management, all forms of collective investment
management, pension fund management,
custodial, depository and trust services;
(JJ) settlement and clearing services for financial
assets, including securities, derivative products,
and other negotiable instruments;
(KK) provision and transfer of financial information, and
financial data processing and related software by
suppliers of other financial services; and
(LL) advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary
financial services on all the activities listed in sub-
paragraphs (AA) through (KK) above, including
credit reference and analysis, investment and
portfolio research and advice, advice on
acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and
strategy;- Page 385 -
(ii) the term “financial service supplier” means any natural or
juridical person of a Party wishing to supply or supplying
financial services, but the term “financial service supplier” does
not include a public entity;
(iii) the term “public entity” means:
(A) a government, a central bank or a monetary authority of a
Party, or an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is
principally engaged in carrying out governmental
functions or activities for governmental purposes, not
including an entity principally engaged in supplying
financial services on commercial terms; or
(B) a private entity, performing functions normally performed
by a central bank or monetary authority, when exercising
those functions;
(iv) for the purposes of sub-paragraph (q) of paragraph 6 of Article
58,  the term “services supplied in the exercise of governmental
authority” means the following:
(A) activities conducted by a central bank or monetary
authority or by any other public entity in pursuit of
monetary or exchange rate policies;
(B) activities forming part of a statutory system of social
security or public retirement plans; and
(C) other activities conducted by a public entity for the
account or with the guarantee or using the financial
resources of the Government.
  (b) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (q) of paragraph 6 of Article 58, if a
Party allows any of the activities referred to in (iv)(B) of sub-paragraph
(a) or (iv)(C) of sub-paragraph (a) above to be conducted by its
financial service suppliers in competition with a public entity or a
financial service supplier, the term “services” shall include such
activities.
  (c) Sub-paragraph (r) of paragraph 6 of Article 58 shall not apply to
services covered by this Annex.
II. Domestic Regulation
1. Notwithstanding any provisions of Chapter 7, a Party shall not be
prevented from taking measures for prudential reasons, including measures for
the protection of investors, depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a
fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service supplier, or to ensure the integrity
and stability of the financial system. Where such measures do not conform with- Page 386 -
the provisions of Chapter 7, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the
Party's commitments or obligations under Chapter 7.
2. Nothing in Chapter 7 shall be construed to require a Party to disclose
information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or any
confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public entities.
III. Recognition
1. A Party may recognise the prudential measures of any international
regulatory body or non-Party in determining how the Party’s measures relating
to financial services shall be applied.  Such recognition, which may be
achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an
agreement or arrangement with the international regulatory body or non-Party
concerned or may be accorded autonomously.
2. A Party that is a party to such an agreement or arrangement referred to
in paragraph 1 above, whether future or existing, shall afford adequate
opportunity for the other Party to negotiate its accession to such agreements
or arrangements, or to negotiate comparable ones with it, under
circumstances in which there would be equivalent regulation, oversight,
implementation of such regulation, and if appropriate, procedures concerning
the sharing of information between the parties to the agreement or
arrangement.  Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford
adequate opportunity for the other Party to demonstrate that such
circumstances exist.
IV. Dispute Settlement
Arbitral tribunals established under Article 143 for disputes on prudential
issues and other financial matters shall have the necessary expertise relevant
to the specific financial service under dispute.
V. New Financial Services
1. Each Party shall give due consideration to applications by financial
service suppliers of the other Party to offer in the territory of the former Party
any new financial service that is regulated by the other Party within the
territory of the other Party. Where an application is approved, the provision of
the new financial service is subject, on a non-discriminatory basis, to relevant
licensing, institutional and juridical form requirements of the former Party.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1 above , the term “new financial
service” shall include services related to existing and new products or
services, or the manner in which such products or services are delivered, that
are not supplied in the territory of a Party but are supplied in the territory of
the other Party.- Page 387 -
VI. Modification of Schedules
The Parties shall, on the request in writing by either Party, hold consultations
to consider any modification or withdrawal of a commitment in the Schedule of
specific commitments on trade in financial services. Such consultations shall
be held within three months after the requesting Party makes such a request.
In such consultations, the Parties shall aim to ensure that a general level of
mutually advantageous commitments not less favourable to trade than that
provided for in the Schedule of specific commitments in Annex IVC  prior to
such consultations is maintained.