- Page 20 -
(c)
to conform with an amendment to this Agreement.
Article 33
Assistance for Checking of Certificate of Origin
The importing Party may, within three years after the importation of the good,
request the exporting Party to assist to check the authenticity or accuracy of
the certificate of origin. Where such request has been made, the exporting
Party shall endeavour to take necessary measures to provide the assistance
requested.
Article 34
Joint Committee on Rules of Origin
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Rules of Origin (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
to consult regularly to ensure the effective implementation of the
provisions in this Chapter;
(b)
to discuss necessary amendments of the provisions of this
Chapter, including Annex IIA, taking into account developments
in production processes or other matters (including the
recommended amendments to the Harmonized System);
(c)
to submit the recommendation on the amendments to the
Supervisory Committee; and
(d)
to discuss any issues concerning rules of origin.
CHAPTER 4
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES
Article 35
Scope of Chapter 4
This Chapter shall apply to customs procedures required for the clearance of
goods traded between the Parties.
Article 36
Customs Clearance
For prompt customs clearance of goods traded between the Parties, each
Party shall:
(a)
make use of information and communications technology;
(b)
simplify its customs procedures; and
- Page 21 -
(c)
make its customs procedures conform, as far as possible, to
relevant international standards and recommended practices
such as those made under the auspices of the Customs Co-
operation Council.
Article 37
Temporary Admission and Goods in Transit
1.
Each Party shall continue to facilitate the procedures for the temporary
admission of goods traded between the Parties in accordance with the
Customs Convention on the A.T.A. Carnet for the Temporary Admission of
Goods (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the A.T.A. Convention”).
2.
Each Party shall continue to facilitate customs clearance of goods in
transit from or to the territory of the other Party.
3.
The Parties shall endeavour to promote, through seminars and
courses, the use of A.T.A. carnets pursuant to the A.T.A. Convention for the
temporary admission of goods and the facilitation of customs clearance of
goods in transit in non-Parties.
4.
For the purposes of this Article, the term “temporary admission” means
customs procedures under which certain goods may be brought into a
customs territory conditionally, relieved totally or partially from the payment of
customs duties.  Such goods shall be imported for a specific purpose, and
shall be intended for re-exportation within a specified period and without
having undergone any change except normal depreciation due to the use
made of them.
Article 38
Exchange of Information under Chapter 4
The Parties shall exchange information as provided for in the Implementing
Agreement with respect to the implementation of this Chapter.  Article 3 shall
not apply to such exchange of information.
Article 39
Joint Committee on Customs Procedures
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Customs Procedures (hereinafter referred to in this Article as
“the Committee”) shall be established. The functions of the Committee shall
be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing the implementation and operation of
this Chapter; and
(b)
identifying and recommending to the Supervisory Committee
areas to be improved for facilitating trade between the Parties.
- Page 22 -
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 5
PAPERLESS TRADING
Article 40
Co-operation on Paperless Trading between the Parties
The Parties, recognising that trading using electronic filing and transfer of
trade-related information and electronic versions of documents such as bills of
lading, invoices, letters of credit and insurance certificates, as an alternative to
paper-based methods (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “paperless
trading”), will significantly enhance the efficiency of trade through reduction of
cost and time, shall co-operate with a view to realising and promoting
paperless trading between them.
Article 41
Exchange of Views and Information
The Parties shall exchange views and information on realising, promoting and
developments in paperless trading.
Article 42
Co-operation on Paperless Trading between Private Entities
The Parties shall encourage co-operation between their relevant private
entities engaging in activities related to paperless trading.  Such co-operation
may include the setting up and operation by such private entities of facilities
(hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “the Facilities”) to provide efficient
and secured flow of electronic trade-related information and electronic
versions of relevant documents between enterprises of the Parties.
Article 43
Review of Realisation of Paperless Trading
The Parties shall review as soon as possible, and in any case, not later than
2004, how to realise paperless trading in which electronic trade-related
information and electronic versions of relevant documents exchanged
between enterprises of the Parties through the Facilities may be used as
supporting documents by the trade regulatory bodies of the respective
Parties.
Article 44
Joint Committee on Paperless Trading
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Paperless Trading (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
