JOINT ANNOUNCEMENT
OF THE SINGAPORE AND JAPAN
PRIME MINISTERS
AT THE SIGNING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE AND JAPAN
FOR A NEW-AGE ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP
(Towards Dynamism and Prosperity for
the 21st Century)
1.
We, the Prime Minister of Japan, Junichiro Koizumi, and the Prime Minister of
Singapore, Goh Chok Tong, held a meeting in Singapore on 13th January, 2002, and
exchanged views and analyses on several issues, in particular on the political and
economic situation in the Asian region.  Reaffirming our shared responsibility to
contribute to the security, stability and prosperity of our region, we discussed
candidly how our two nations should work closely to fulfil such responsibility.
2.
We, the two Prime Ministers, looking back at the history of our region, are
heartened by the recent positive development that countries in both Northeast Asia
and Southeast Asia, once bitterly divided by ideologies reflecting the East-West
confrontation under the Cold War, are now coming together. We also welcome the
fact that their co-operation with other countries in the world has been enhanced at
the same time.
3.
Many difficulties and challenges, however, remain.  The sour memory of the
Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998 is still vivid. Furthermore, the current global
recession is threatening the prosperity and growth of our region.
4.
We recognise that the characteristic diligence, vitality and maturity of the
peoples in this region must now be mobilised to inspire in us further creativity,
technological innovation and entrepreneurship for the purposes of restoring
economic vibrancy to this region.  This will, in turn, contribute to the prosperity of our
two nations.
5.
In this context, we reviewed and re-evaluated the role our two nations should
play in the region, and have decided that fresh impetus should be given to the
existing close and warm relations between our two nations, by establishing a new
framework for partnership.
6.
Cognisant of the dynamism of globalisation and the rapidity of technological
progress which have changed the global environment and presented new economic
and strategic challenges and opportunities, we affirm the importance of establishing
an economic partnership between our two nations to create a larger and harmonised
market for Japanese and Singapore businesses, and to institutionalise regulatory and
other policy reforms in both nations.  This would enhance the attractiveness and
vibrancy of our markets.
7.
We are convinced that firmer economic linkages and integration between our
two nations will create new opportunities for business, expand economies of scale,
and promote stability and predictability for business transactions.  We strongly
believe that such linkages and integration would play a vital catalytic role in
accelerating and promoting sound economic development and closer economic
partnership in this region, which is endowed with rich human and natural resources.
We are determined to work together to achieve this goal.
8.
We believe that enhancing economic ties between our two nations would
strengthen Japan's involvement in and its commitment to Southeast Asia. Such
enhanced ties between Japan and Singapore would provide a framework for
cementing economic relations between Japan and the other ASEAN countries.  This
could in turn help ASEAN's efforts to integrate into a common market of five hundred
million people.
9.
We recognise that such an economic partnership between Japan and
Singapore should include mutual elimination of cross-border trade barriers,
facilitation and promotion of investment flows, development of capital markets,
exchanges of people, promotion of the use of information and communications
technology, and alliances of scientific research institutes, universities, broadcasting
houses, as well as of small and medium-sized industries.
10.
We further share the conviction that, in view of the rapidly expanding roles of
the private sector in modern economies, such a partnership should not only be
established between the two Governments but should also involve a variety of
entities outside the Governments.
11. 
Bearing all these beliefs and hopes in mind, we are pleased to announce that
the signing of the Agreement between Japan and the Republic of Singapore for a
New-Age Economic Partnership has just been completed. Concurrently, we are
pleased to announce our Joint Statement welcoming a number of partnerships and
linkages involving the private sector of our two nations, which have been developed
in the course of the establishment of the New-Age Economic Partnership. This Joint
Statement also includes our shared views and convictions on specific issues relating
to certain parts of the Agreement which has just been signed.
12.
We, representing the Governments and peoples of our two nations, now
warmly celebrate the conclusion of this comprehensive and substantive bilateral
economic partnership agreement, the first in Asia, at the gateway of the 21st century.
Joint Statement
In signing the Agreement between Japan and the Republic of Singapore on a New-
Age Economic Partnership (hereinafter referred to in this Joint Statement as “the
JSEPA”), the two Prime Ministers present the following Joint Statement on specific
issues.
1.
CHAPTER ON GENERAL PROVISIONS (ASSOCIATION WITH THE JSEPA)
(1) 
Recognising the catalytic role which the JSEPA could play in
accelerating global and regional trade and investment liberalisation
and rule-making, the Prime Ministers note the possibility of associating
other economies with the JSEPA.
(2) 
They affirm that the terms of such association could be negotiated
between the parties to the JSEPA (i.e. Japan and Singapore) and the
economy seeking this association, taking into account the individual
circumstances of that economy.
2.
CHAPTER ON TRADE IN GOODS (JOINT ACTION IN THE WTO FOR THE
STRENGTHENING OF DISCIPLINES OF ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES)
(1)
The two Prime Ministers recognise a growing inclination in the world to
easy recourse to anti-dumping measures, and share the profound
apprehension that such measures are frequently abused for
protectionist purposes to obstruct trade and afford unfair protection to
domestic industries. The two Prime Ministers note with grave concern
that such measures produce trade restrictive effects which hamper
global efforts towards trade liberalisation, currently being pursued
strenuously, in particular by the WTO, which now stands at the gate of
a new round of multilateral trade negotiations.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers hence affirm the pressing need to establish
robust and clear rules to ensure not only fairness and consistency in
the application of anti-dumping measures but also transparency in
anti-dumping proceedings. At the same time, in recognition of the
potential for abuse of anti-dumping measures, the two Prime Ministers
are determined that, in the context of the JSEPA, the two
Governments should not use such measures for protectionist
purposes, and should only use them to the extent really necessary,
and when no other means are available to remedy the injurious effects
of dumping.
(3)
The two Prime Ministers are determined to continue and strengthen
the co-operation between the two countries, particularly in the
framework of the WTO, to clarify, improve and strengthen rules
governing anti-dumping measures.
3.
CHAPTER ON PAPERLESS TRADING
(1)
Recognising the importance of paperless trading, the two Prime
Ministers welcome the linkage between Japan’s document exchange
servers such as the Trade Electronic Data Interchange (“TEDI”)-
related servers and Singapore’s document exchange servers (i.e.,
servers to electronically transmit and deposit invoices, bills of lading,
and other trade-related documents exchanged between enterprises).
(2)
The two Prime Ministers express their hope that the benefits from the
above linkage would be enhanced by the following:
(a) 
As to Japan:
(i) 
initiative of the Government of Japan to provide one-
stop service by interconnecting relevant trade-related
electronic systems, such as the Japan Electronic Open
Network Trade Control System (“JETRAS”), the Port
EDI System and the Nippon Automated Cargo
Clearance System (“NACCS”) by FY2002;
(ii) 
effective utilisation of data exchange among Japan’s
document exchange servers and Japan’s trade-related
procedures systems, such as the JETRAS, the Port
EDI and the NACCS; and
(iii) 
implementation of the Customs Co-operation Council
initiative, which has been based on the results of the
G7 work, on standardisation and simplification of
customs procedures.
(b) 
As to Singapore:
(i)
initiative of the Government of Singapore to facilitate
linkages to TradeNet on a business-to-business basis
by FY2002;
(ii) 
effective utilisation of data exchange among
Singapore’s document exchange servers and
Singapore’s trade regulatory system; and
(iii) 
studying the possibility of implementing the Customs
Co-operation Council initiative, which has been based
on the results of the G7 work, on standardisation and
simplification of customs procedures.
4.
CHAPTER ON MUTUAL RECOGNITION (CO-OPERATION IN THE FIELD OF GOOD
MANUFACTURING PRACTICE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS)
The two Prime Ministers note with appreciation that the Government of Japan
and the Government of the Republic of Singapore, upon the signing of the
JSEPA, express their wish to start the co-operative activities enumerated
below concerning Good Manufacturing Practice (hereinafter referred to in this
Joint Statement as “GMP”) for medicinal products, recognising that such
activities will enhance the mutual understanding of their respective systems
and help both Governments to consider, in the future, the expansion of the
field for further co-operation between them. These activities will be put into
practice by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (“MHLW”) of Japan
and the Health Sciences Authority (“HSA”) of the Republic of Singapore
(hereinafter referred to in this Joint Statement as “the authority” or collectively
as “the authorities”), in a manner consistent with the applicable laws and
regulations of each country.
In this regard, recognising that the equivalence of the regulatory GMP
systems of both countries as well as the economic benefits should be
confirmed in considering mutual recognition on GMP, the Government of
Japan takes note of the Government of the Republic of Singapore’s view that
the possibility of including a Sectoral Annex on GMP to Chapter 6 (Mutual
Recognition) of the JSEPA should be considered in the future.
For the purposes of this Joint Statement, the term “medicinal products”
means those products that are defined as “drugs for human use” in both
countries and to which GMP requirements of the respective countries are
applied. The definition of “medicinal products” includes active pharmaceutical
ingredients.
The term “Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)” means that part of quality
assurance which ensures that products are consistently produced and
controlled in accordance with quality standards appropriate for their intended
use and as required by the applicable marketing authorisations or product
specifications.
(1)
Each authority will:
(a)
upon request, provide the other authority with copies of GMP
inspection reports of manufacturing facilities of medicinal
products located in the territory of the country of the requested
authority, provided that the request is only made in respect of
manufacturing facilities whose products are exported to the
country of the requesting authority. In this regard, information to
be exchanged will be restricted to information that is routinely
collected and maintained by the requested authority;
(b)
include the following information in the GMP inspection report
requested:
(i) 
date(s) of inspection;
(ii) 
scope of inspection and activities undertaken;
(iii) 
summary of key observations or findings; and
(iv) 
GMP compliance status of the manufacturing facility for
the products concerned; and
(c)
provide the other authority with the inspection report, if
available, in the English language.
(2)
Each authority will provide the other authority with information on
classified recalls of medicinal products known by the former authority
to have been manufactured or distributed in the country of the former
authority. This information will include:
(a) 
name of product;
(b) 
name and address of manufacturing facility;
(c) 
batch/lot number;
(d) 
expiry date, if available; and
(e) 
reason(s) for batch recall.
(3)
Each authority will, upon request, provide the other authority with
information regarding the product quality of medicinal products, in
particular, regarding the product defect(s), when necessary.
(4)
Each authority will welcome visits by officials of the other authority for
the purpose of studying the implementation of the respective GMP
inspection systems, where appropriate and as resources permit.
(5)
Neither authority will disclose any information exchanged under this
Joint Statement that the requested authority has indicated to be
confidential, unless otherwise required under the laws and regulations
of the country of that authority.
(6)
Both authorities will:
(a)
review the progress of the co-operation under this Joint
Statement once every three years after the JSEPA comes into
force; and
(b)
depending on the result of such review, consider the possibility
of expanding the field of co-operation between them.
(7)
Each authority will give the other authority three months written notice
in the event that it wishes to cease any of the co-operative activities
listed above.
(8)
Any details regarding the co-operation under this Joint Statement will
be discussed between the two authorities.
5. 
CHAPTER ON INVESTMENT (ENVIRONMENT)
The two Prime Ministers recognise that there should not be any policy
contradiction between, on the one hand, upholding and safeguarding an
open, non-discriminatory and equitable trading and investment regime, and,
on the other hand, acting for the protection of the environment and the
promotion of sustainable development.
6.
CHAPTER ON MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS (MUTUAL RECOGNITION  OF
PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS)
(1)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the discussions on the mutual
recognition of professional qualifications between the experts of the
two Governments, which, particularly, have started in the field of civil
engineering.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers recognise the potential benefit in promoting
mutual recognition of professional qualifications between the two
countries.
(3)
The two Prime Ministers express their intention that the two
Governments will explore other possible areas for the mutual
recognition of professional qualifications in the course of discussions
in the Joint Committee on Mutual Recognition of Professional
Qualifications established under Chapter 9 of the JSEPA.
7.
CHAPTER ON FINANCIAL SERVICES CO-OPERATION
(1) 
The two Prime Ministers reaffirm the importance of private sector co-
operation between the financial sectors of both countries in promoting
and strengthening economic partnership envisaged in the JSEPA.
The two Prime Ministers stress the need for co-operation between the
two countries in facilitating the development of their capital markets.
They decided that their financial regulators should review and discuss
issues relating to financial markets and financial infrastructure,
including the creation of a conducive environment for private sector
collaboration across the financial sectors of the two countries. There
has already been some recent progress in collaboration between stock
exchanges of the two countries. The enhanced co-operation between
the two countries would improve the depth and liquidity of the capital
markets of the two countries.
In the context of enhanced private sector co-operation in the financial
sector of both countries, the two Prime Ministers believe that it is
important to strengthen regulatory co-operation between the financial
authorities of both countries. The JSEPA and the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”)
and the Financial Services Agency (“FSA”) of Japan would play an
important role in developing the two countries’ financial markets and
financial infrastructure, as well as contribute to the effective
enforcement and administration of the securities laws of each country.
(2)
In view of the shared interest in enhanced bilateral co-operation in
financial services under the JSEPA, the two Prime Ministers decided
to explore the possibility of starting negotiation on a bilateral swap
agreement between their two countries under the Chiang Mai Initiative
of the ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers Process. The Chiang Mai Initiative
includes a network of bilateral financing arrangements among ASEAN
countries, China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, aimed at
enhancing economic and financial stability in the region.
8.
CHAPTER ON INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
(1)
The two Prime Ministers, reaffirming the importance of having
pervasive and robust Information and Communications Technology
(hereinafter referred to in this Joint Statement as “ICT”) networks and
services as a vital foundation for the development of the two countries’
economies and the economic ties between the two countries, and
recognising their mutual interests and benefits in building a strong
partnership between the public and private sectors of the two
countries in the field of ICT, express their intention to promote closer
co-operation between the  two countries in this dynamic field.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers recognise the importance of building a strong
partnership between the public and private sectors of the two
countries in the field of ICT by:
(a) 
promoting dialogue and joint collaboration between the two
countries on ICT issues;
(b) 
building trust through such measures as protection of personal
data and ensuring information security;
(c) 
adopting a clear and consistent legal framework in each
country in order to encourage private sector initiatives and to
protect consumers' interests.
(3)
The two Prime Ministers share the view that, in order to accomplish
the intentions described above, the following general principles should
be taken into consideration:
(a)
the private sector should lead in the development of ICT and in
the establishment of business practices;
(b)
in the field of ICT, the Government should create a favourable
environment, which would promote private sector initiatives
and would maximise consumers' interests. It should also
endeavour to deliver high standard online services for the full
benefit of the private sector;
(c)
the Government should avoid imposing unnecessary
regulations or restrictions on the private sector in the field of
ICT. Government regulations or restrictions should be clear,
transparent, predictable and cost-effective to the private
sector;
(d)
the Government should respond positively to, as well as
encourage consumers in the uptake of new technologies. The
Government should also encourage the private sector to
introduce new services quickly in order to respond to the
growing demand for new services in the field of ICT so as to
develop electronic commerce;
(e)
the Government should bear in mind that international co-
operation and harmonisation are needed to construct a
seamless ICT environment.
(4)
Inter-operability of Public Key Infrastructure   
(a)
The two Prime Ministers share the view that it is desirable for
Public Key Infrastructure (hereinafter referred to in this Joint
Statement as “PKI”) in both countries to inter-operate
smoothly. Therefore, the two Governments will make efforts to
take proper measures to promote PKI inter-operability, such as
providing relevant information on legal and policy aspects of
PKI, and encouraging the private sectors of both countries to
develop a dialogue on PKI inter-operability.
(b)
The two Prime Ministers share the view that co-operation on
PKI inter-operability should be promoted not only between the
two countries but also at the regional and international levels.
They also share the view that the co-operation between the
two countries may be a reference model for co-operation at
regional and international levels.
(5)
Protection of Personal Data
(a)
The two Prime Ministers recognise the importance of
developing a better mutual understanding of the laws and
practices of each country relating to the protection of personal
data. Therefore, the two Governments will hold expert level
dialogue at mutually available dates to keep abreast of
developments in each other’s systems for personal data
protection and to explore further co-operation in this area.
(b)
The two Prime Ministers, recognising the importance of the
role of the private sector in the area of protection of personal
data, urge their Governments to make efforts to encourage the
private sectors of the two countries to develop co-operation in
this area.
(c)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Japan Information Processing
Development Corporation and Commerce Trust Pte Ltd,
Singapore, entered into on 8th August 2001, to embark on
discussions aimed at cross-recognition of their respective
personal data protection marks. They express their hope that
the discussion will be concluded by June 2002, as pursued by
these two institutions.
(d)
The two Prime Ministers also welcome the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Japan Computer Communications
Association and Commerce Trust Pte Ltd, Singapore, entered
into on 20th August 2001, to embark on discussions aimed at
cross-recognition of their respective personal data protection
marks in the telecommunications business.
(6)
Consumer Protection
The two Prime Ministers recognise that consumer protection is one of
the key elements to ensure sound development of electronic
commerce. They also recognise that consumers using electronic
commerce in the two countries should receive an equivalent protection
to that which was provided to them when using other forms of
commerce to the extent practicable.
(7)
Advanced Telecommunications Networks
(a)
The two Prime Ministers recognise the importance of
developing advanced telecommunications networks in both
countries and improving access to them, and welcome efforts
in that regard.
(b)
Therefore, the two Governments will exchange information,
views and experiences on the following issues:
(i)
facilitating the further development of advanced
telecommunications networks;
(ii)
bridging gaps in opportunities for the use of advanced
telecommunications networks;
(iii)
promoting a conducive environment for creative
research and development in the area of advanced
telecommunications networks.
(8)
Interactive Broadband Multimedia Services
(a)
The two Prime Ministers note with satisfaction that Japan and
Singapore are both developing high-capacity broadband
networks and industries, and recognise that there is a need to
encourage the private sectors of the two countries to respond
positively to the growing demand in both countries for
interactive broadband multimedia services.
(b)
Therefore, the two Governments will hold regular dialogue to
discuss and propose joint activities that can accelerate the
growth of interactive broadband multimedia services. The two
Governments will also encourage the private sectors of the two
countries to take the lead in promoting interactive broadband
multimedia services and to strengthen the ties between the
private sectors of the two countries in this area.
(9)
Regulatory Strategies to Promote Competition in the ICT Sector
(a) 
The two Prime Ministers recognise that diffusion of cost-
effective and reliable ICT services underpin economic
activities in the new information age and that sound
competition is necessary to ensure consumers' benefits.
They also share the view that regulating the converging
multi-operator market is a challenging task and the
regulators should take flexible approaches so as to ensure
growth of the market and embrace innovative technologies
and services.
(b)
Therefore, the two Governments (between the Ministry of
Public Management, Home Affairs, Posts and
Telecommunications of Japan and the Info-communications
Development Authority of Singapore) will meet at their
convenience to exchange information and views on the
latest developments in the area of regulation of ICT
services. The two Prime Ministers expect that it will help
the two Governments understand each other’s regulatory
environment, practices and procedures.
(10)
e-Government
The two Prime Ministers note with satisfaction that each Government
is trying to introduce ICT within its administrative system and to realise
e-Government. Therefore, the two Governments will share their own
experiences in this area in order to achieve their respective objectives
in a more efficient way.
(11)
Developing IT Skill Standards and Cross Certification of Information
Technology Project Management Skills of ICT Professionals
(a)
The two Prime Ministers recognise the need to encourage the
growth and development of ICT talent in both countries by
developing and commonly evaluating the abilities of ICT
professionals.
(b)
In this context, the two Prime Ministers welcome the
Memorandum of Understanding entered into on 24th August
2001 between the Central Academy of Information Technology
and the Japan Information Technology Engineers Examination
Centre of the Japanese Information Processing Development
Corporation and the National Infocomm Competency Centre of
Singapore and the Singapore Computer Society for the mutual
certification of skill standards between Japan's Information
Technology Engineers Examinations and Singapore's National
IT Skills Certification Programme (IT Project Management).
(c) 
The two Prime Ministers share the view that ICT engineers of
each country, whose scope of knowledge and skills have been
certified as equivalent to those of ICT engineers of the other
country pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding
referred to in (b) above, should be granted appropriate entry
and stay permits in the case of Japan, or employment passes
in the case of Singapore, if they apply for them, in that other
country in accordance with its laws and regulations.
(d) 
In this context, the two Governments will explore further co-
operation in developing IT skills standards and mutual cross
certification.
(12)
Postal Services
(a) 
The two Prime Ministers note that postal services are an
important area related with ICT. In spite of the advent of e-mail
and other electronic forms of communication, traditional postal
services continue to be a reliable and convenient way of
communicating, conducting business and maintaining close
contacts among people.
(b) 
In this regard, the two Prime Ministers welcome that postal
operators of both countries will consider exploring ways to
enhance the quality of, improve the efficiency of, and expand
the scope of postal services between Japan and Singapore. In
particular, the postal operators will endeavour to improve
delivery service standards of their express mail services and
international airmail services through such means as reduction
of delivery time. The postal operators will also embark on
studies to explore ways for greater co-operation for the
development of new services between Japan and Singapore.
(13) 
International Fora related to ICT
Recognising the global nature of ICT, the two Prime Ministers
recognise that it is important for the two Governments to continue to
co-operate closely, where appropriate, at relevant international fora,
which may include but shall not be limited to the World Trade
Organisation, the International Telecommunication Union, the Asia
Pacific Telecommunity, the Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation
forum, the World Intellectual Property Organisation, the Customs Co-
operation Council, the United Nations Commission on International
Trade Law and the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development.
(14) 
Bridging Digital Divide
The two Prime Ministers recognise the importance of bridging the
digital divide not only within but also between countries. Therefore, the
two Governments will explore the possibility of co-operating with each
other in extending assistance to third countries, in particular, in the
Asia region.
9. 
CHAPTER ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
(1) 
The two Prime Ministers share the view that science and technology
are crucial and indispensable for the economies of their two countries
in the 21st century, and welcome the expansion of co-operation
between the two countries in the field of science and technology in the
spirit of the JSEPA.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the development of co-operation in
the field of life sciences, which both Prime Ministers recognise would
contribute substantially to the economies of their two countries. Such
co-operation includes the following:
(a) 
the Biomedical Symposium in Singapore in March 2001 and
the Bio-science Symposium in Tokyo in October 2001 which
had the participation of relevant institutes, universities and
Government agencies of Japan and Singapore; and
(b) 
the co-operation between the Institute of Molecular and Cell
Biology (“IMCB”) in Singapore and the Institute of Medical
Science, University of Tokyo (“IMSUT”) to promote the
development of research and other academic activities.
(3)
The two Prime Ministers are also pleased with the development of co-
operation in the field of biomaterials. They welcome the efforts to
establish an institutes exchange arrangement between the Centre for
Biomaterials Applications and Technology of the National University of
Singapore (“BIOMAT-NUS”) and the Biomaterials Centre of the
National Institute for Materials Science (“BMC-NIMS”) in Japan.
(4)
With the framework established under the JSEPA, the two Prime
Ministers are confident that these will herald other collaborative
projects which will contribute substantially to the development of
science and technology of the two countries and hence enhance their
competitiveness.
10.
CHAPTER ON HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(1)
Extension of the JSPP21
(a) 
The two Prime Ministers reaffirm the importance of the Japan-
Singapore Partnership Programme for the 21st Century
(hereinafter referred to in this Joint Statement as "JSPP21")
and renew their appreciation of the role JSPP21 has played
not only in materialising meaningful third country co-operation,
but also in levelling up bilateral relations in a more mature
stage. JSPP21 has been a driving force for the two
Governments in jointly extending technical assistance to
developing countries for their economic and social
development. JSPP21 is unique in its basic principle of equal
partnership between the two countries. They note with
appreciation that through JSPP21, the two Governments had
successfully extended technical co-operation to East Timor
and a number of countries, including ASEAN and African
countries.
(b) 
In this regard, they welcome the extension of JSPP21. They
particularly appreciate that co-operation on a "Senior Volunteer
Program" was added to the scope of the revised JSPP21.
Recognising the importance of tackling ageing issues, the two
Prime Ministers express their hope that Singapore would
establish a similar senior volunteer program. This would allow
the two Governments to consider the possibility of jointly
dispatching senior volunteers to third countries in the near
future.
(c)
They also note the JSPP21's role in providing training for third
countries for developing ICT with a view to bridging the digital
divide. Recognising that the JSPP21 had already played a
significant role in this area, they hope that ICT-related training
will remain as an important area for future co-operation.
(2)
Joint Third Country Programme with Private Sector
(a) 
The Prime Ministers welcome the continuing bilateral co-
operation in promoting technology transfer to and human
resource development in the private sectors of ASEAN
countries, under the newly established Japan-Singapore Joint
Training Programme (hereinafter referred to in this Joint
Statement as “Joint Programme”). The Joint Programme will
focus on courses in management of business, commerce and
industrial technology, and cover practical business topics in
these areas where there are private sector interests. The
training courses will be conducted in Singapore, and organised
by both Japanese and Singaporean associations.
(b) 
The Prime Ministers encourage Japan-related and Singapore-
related companies with business operations and ties in ASEAN
countries to nominate trainees to the Joint Programme.
(3) 
Exchange of University Students
(a) 
The two Prime Ministers share the view that exchanges of
university students between Japan and Singapore are
important and effective in acquiring the newest and highest
knowledge in each other's academic field, and in promoting
mutual understanding between the two countries.
(b) 
The two Prime Ministers are pleased to recognise that
exchanges of university students between the two countries
have been steadily carried out and they welcome the
conclusion of the following new Universities Exchange
Agreements:
(i)
Kyushu University – National University of Singapore
(ii)
Keio University – National University of Singapore
(iii)
Hiroshima University – Nanyang Technology University
(c) 
The two Prime Ministers express their hope that existing
University Exchange Agreements will continue to encourage
exchanges of university students and that these exchange
students will be assets and bridges for further strengthening
the close and friendly relations between the two countries.
(4)
Exchange of High School Students
(a)
The two Prime Ministers recognise that exchanges of high
school students between the two countries contribute
effectively to the enhancement of mutual understanding
between the two countries.
In this connection, the two Prime Ministers are pleased to note
that the existing junior high school student exchange
programmes between Singapore and Hamamatsu City through
the International Youth Association of Japan K.S.K.K. and
between Singapore and Sapporo City have succeeded in
promoting friendship and mutual understanding between the
two countries.
(b)
The two Prime Ministers are also pleased to note that the
Japan-ASEAN Exchange Programme for High School Students
provides an opportunity for Singapore high school students to
visit Japan. They believe that this would foster closer relations
between the two countries.
(5)
Internship
(a) 
The two Prime Ministers share the view that it will be both
useful and beneficial to give university students of both
countries opportunities to have working experiences in the
other country through internship programmes. They strongly
believe that activities through internship programmes will
greatly contribute to the enhancement not only of co-operative
relations in the private sector of the two countries but also of
mutual understanding between the peoples of the two
countries.
(b) 
In this regard, they express their hope that more university
students will take advantage of the internship programmes
established in accordance with their respective laws and
regulations.
(c) 
The two Prime Ministers decided, with the spirit of the JSEPA
in mind, to further encourage the use of the internship
programmes.
11.
CHAPTER ON TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
(1)
The two Prime Ministers, recognising the importance of promoting
strategic alliances between private enterprises of the two countries in
Singapore, Japan and Asia, welcome the Memorandum of
Understanding, which was signed by the Japan External Trade
Organisation  (“JETRO”) and the Singapore Trade Development
Board (“TDB”) on 26th October 2001 to enhance co-operation in trade
and investment promotion. JETRO and TDB will co-operate to jointly
organise the following activities:
(a) 
industry-specific missions and seminars, focusing on high
growth sectors;
(b) 
business study missions to third countries; and
(c) 
linkage of on-line databases of Singapore and Japanese
companies.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the initiative between the ECICS
Credit Insurance Ltd. (“ECICS”) and the Nippon Export and
Investment Insurance (“NEXI”) to enhance the trade and investment
insurance co-operation between the two organisations as follows
under the Memorandum dated 1st June 2001 issued by NEXI in
addition to the existing re-insurance co-operation based on the
Reinsurance Agreement of 1999:
(a)
co-insurance co-operation for medium-to-long term export
credit insurance for the export of goods and services;
(b)
exchange of buyer information; and
(c) 
training for ECICS staff in credit and investment insurance.
12.
CHAPTER ON SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
(1) 
The two Prime Ministers recognise that small and medium-sized
enterprises (hereinafter referred to in this Joint Statement as “SMEs”)
function as engines of growth in a knowledge-based economy, and
that they play an important role in their economies and, increasingly,
in cross-border activities.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the Memorandum of Understanding
signed between the Singapore Productivity and Standards Board
(“PSB”) and JETRO on 26th October 2001 to promote collaboration
between SMEs in the two countries. In accordance with this
Memorandum of Understanding, the operations and investments of
Japanese SMEs in Singapore as well as those of Singapore SMEs in
Japan will be facilitated through their close co-operation such as (a)
promotion of business alliances, (b) development of one-stop
information services and (c) establishment of the JETRO Business
Support Centre in Singapore.
13.
CHAPTER ON BROADCASTING
(1)
The two Prime Ministers recognise the potential of broadcasting as a
means of promoting understanding between two countries. They also
share the view that, with the rapid development of innovative
broadcasting services, their Governments should endeavour to
promote exchange of views and information between their regulatory
authorities and to encourage co-operative efforts in the field of
broadcasting.
(2)
To promote co-operative efforts in the field of broadcasting, the two
Prime Ministers welcome business alliances and tie-ups between
broadcasters in Japan and Singapore. They observe that
broadcasters in their countries have already been engaging in active
business ties.
(3)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the fact that the two Governments
are to sign a Common Statement of Policy on Film, Television, and
Video Co-production which is intended to introduce a better
environment for joint production projects by independent Japanese
and Singaporean production houses or broadcasters. This is to
facilitate the growth of creative industries of the two countries as a
means of promoting understanding of the two countries' cultures by
each other and by the international community.
14. 
CHAPTER ON TOURISM (TWINNING OF STREETS)
(1) 
The two Prime Ministers welcome the conclusion of a Memorandum of
Understanding  on the Twinning of Ginza and Orchard Road
(collectively known as “Twinning Streets”) between Japan’s Ginza
Street Association and Singapore’s Orchard Road Business
Association, to further encourage tourism and business co-operation
between Japan and Singapore.
(2) 
The two Prime Ministers believe that the Memorandum of
Understanding would:
(a) 
promote the image of the Twinning Streets through the
organising of activities of a business, cultural or artistic nature
and which are representative of the Streets; and
(b) 
facilitate contacts and enhance friendship between the relevant
associations and enterprises involved in the Twinning Streets,
through business, cultural and technical exchanges, visits and
study trips.
15. 
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
(1)
The two Prime Ministers decided to promote the awareness of and
access to the use of the Alternative Dispute Resolution (hereinafter
referred to in this Joint Statement as “ADR”) mechanisms of mediation
and arbitration within the mainstream legal frameworks of both
countries, through the collaborative efforts of the Japan Commercial
Arbitration Association (“JCAA”), the Tokyo Maritime Arbitration
Commission (“TOMAC”) of the Japan Shipping Exchange, Inc. (“JSE”)
and other ADR organisations in Japan, and the Singapore Mediation
Centre (“SMC”), the Singapore International Arbitration Centre
(“SIAC”) and other ADR organisations in Singapore.
(2)
The two Prime Ministers welcome the three Memoranda of
Understanding concluded between the JCAA and the SMC, the JSE
and the SMC, and the JSE and the SIAC. The two Prime Ministers
encourage these organisations to co-operate in the following areas in
accordance with such Memoranda of Understanding:
As between the SMC and the JCAA and the JSE:
(a)
the provision of mediation services;
(b)
the provision of training in negotiation and mediation skills;
(c)
the provision of consultancy services for dispute avoidance,
dispute management and ADR mechanisms; and
(d)
the provision of facilities for negotiation and mediation (subject
to arrangements for reimbursement of fees and expenses) and
assistance in selecting and appointing suitable mediators in
appropriate cases.
As between the SIAC and the JSE:
(a)
the provision of arbitration services;
(b)
the provision of consultancy services in relation to arbitration;
and
(c)
the provision of facilities for arbitration hearings (subject to
arrangements for reimbursement of fees and expenses) and
assistance in selecting and appointing suitable arbitrators in
appropriate cases.
ISSUED at Singapore on 13th January, 2002 in the Japanese and English
languages.  In case of any divergence of understanding on the contents of this Joint
Statement, both sides will refer to the English version.
For Singapore:
For Japan:
Mr Goh Chok Tong
Prime Minister
Singapore
Mr Junichiro Koizumi
Prime Minister
Japan
