- Page 56 -
where appropriate, of such exceptions, and encouraging
favourable conditions for investors of both Parties; and
(c)
discussing other investment related issues concerning this
Chapter.
2.
The Committee may decide to hold a joint meeting with the private
sector.
Article 89
Application of Chapter 8
1.
In fulfilling the obligations under this Chapter, each Party shall take
such reasonable measures as are available to it to ensure observance by its
local governments and non-governmental bodies in the exercise of power
delegated by central or local governments within its territory.
2.
If a Party has entered into an international agreement on investment
with a non-Party, or enters into such an agreement after this Agreement
comes into force, it shall favourably consider according to investors of the
other Party and to their investments, treatment, in relation to the
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, operation, maintenance,
use, possession, liquidation, sale, or other disposition of investments, no less
favourable than the treatment that it accords in like circumstances to investors
of that non-Party and their investments pursuant to such an agreement.
CHAPTER 9
MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS
Article 90
Scope of Chapter 9
1.
This Chapter applies to measures affecting the movement of natural
persons of a Party who enter the territory of the other Party for business
purposes.
2.
This Agreement shall not apply to measures regarding nationality or
citizenship, residence on a permanent basis or employment on a permanent
basis.
Article 91
Definitions under Chapter 9
The term “natural person of the other Party” means a natural person who
resides in the territory of the other Party or elsewhere and who under the law
of the other Party:
(a)
in respect of Japan, is a national of Japan; and
- Page 57 -
(b)
in respect of Singapore, is a national of Singapore or has the
right of permanent residence in Singapore.
Article 92
Specific Commitments under Chapter 9
1.
Each Party shall set out in Part A of Annex VI the specific commitments
it undertakes for:
(a)
short-term business visitors of the other Party; and
(b)
intra-corporate transferees of the other Party.
2.
Each Party shall set out in Part B of Annex VI the specific commitments
it undertakes, to be implemented in accordance with its laws and regulations,
for:
(a)
investors of the other Party; and
(b)
natural persons of the other Party who engage in work on the
basis of a personal contract with public or private organisations
in its territory.
3.
Natural persons covered by a specific commitment referred to in
paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall be granted entry and stay in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the specific commitment.
4.
The specific commitments referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Article shall apply only to sectors where specific commitments referred to in
Article 63 are undertaken under Chapter 7 and no specific exceptions are
made under Chapter 8.
Article 93
Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications
1.
A Party may recognise the education or experience obtained,
requirements met, or licences or certifications granted in the territory of the
other Party for the purposes of the fulfilment, in whole or in part, of its
standards or criteria for the authorisation, licensing or certification of natural
persons with professional qualifications.
2.
Recognition referred to in paragraph 1 above, which may be achieved
through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or
arrangement between the Parties or may be accorded unilaterally.
3.
Where a Party recognises, by agreement or arrangement or
unilaterally, the education or experience obtained, requirements met or
licences or certifications granted in the territory of a non-Party, the Party shall
accord the other Party an adequate opportunity to demonstrate that the
education or experience obtained, requirements met or licences or
- Page 58 -
certifications granted in the territory of the other Party should also be
recognised.
Article 94
Joint Committee on Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of Article 93 above, a
Joint Committee on Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications
(hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Committee”) shall be established.
The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing the issues concerning the effective
implementation of Article 93 above;
(b)
identifying and recommending areas for and ways of furthering
co-operation between the Parties; and
(c)
discussing other issues relating to the implementation of Article
93 above.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
Article 95
General Provisions for Chapter 9
1.
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a
manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable
discrimination against the other Party, or a disguised restriction on trade in
services between the Parties or on investments of investors of a Party in the
territory of the other Party, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to
prevent the adoption or enforcement by either Party of measures:
(a)
necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public
order;(Note)
Note:
The public order exception may be invoked only where a genuine and
sufficiently serious threat is posed to one of the fundamental interests of
society.
(b)
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;
(c)
necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter including
those relating to:
(i)
the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to
deal with the effects of a default on services contracts;
(ii)
the protection of the privacy of individuals in relation to
the processing and dissemination of personal data and
- Page 59 -
the protection of confidentiality of individual records and
accounts;
(iii)
safety.
2.
This Chapter shall not prevent a Party from applying measures to
regulate the entry of natural persons of the other Party into, or their temporary
stay in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect the
integrity of, and to ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across, its
borders, provided that such measures are not applied in such a manner as to
nullify or impair the benefits accruing to the other Party under the terms of a
specific commitment.(Note)
Note:
The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of a certain nationality or
citizenship and not for those of others shall not be regarded as nullifying or impairing
benefits under a specific commitment.
CHAPTER 10
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Article 96
Areas and Forms of Co-operation under Chapter 10
1.
The Parties, recognising the growing importance of intellectual property
(hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “IP”) as a factor of economic
competitiveness in the knowledge-based economy, and of IP protection in this
new environment, shall develop their co-operation in the field of IP.
2.
The areas of the co-operation pursuant to paragraph 1 above may
include:
(a)
patents, trade secrets and related rights;
(b)
trade marks and related rights;
(c)
repression of unfair competition;
(d)
copyright, designs and related rights;
(e)
IP brokerage or licensing, IP management, registration and
exploitation, and patent mapping;
(f)
IP protection in the digital environment and the growth and
development of e-commerce;
(g)
technology and market intelligence; and
(h)
IP education and awareness programmes.
3.
The forms of the co-operation under paragraph 1 of this Article may
include:
