- Page 65 -
(a)
promotion of electronic commerce;
(b)
promotion of the use by consumers, the public sector and the
private sector, of ICT-related services, including newly emerging
services; and
(c)
human resource development relating to ICT.
2.
The Parties may set out, in the Implementing Agreement, specific
areas of co-operation which they deem important.
3.
The forms of co-operation pursuant to Article 112 above may include
the following:
(a)
promoting dialogue on policy issues;
(b)
promoting co-operation between the private sectors of the
Parties;
(c)
enhancing co-operation in international fora relating to ICT; and
(d)
undertaking other appropriate co-operative activities.
Article 114
Joint Committee on ICT
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on ICT (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Committee”)
shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing issues concerning the effective
implementation of this Chapter;
(b)
identifying ways of further co-operation between the Parties in
the field of ICT; and
(c)
discussing other issues relating to ICT.
2. 
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 15
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Article 115
Co-operation in the Field of Science and Technology
1.
The Parties, recognising that science and technology, particularly in
advanced areas, will contribute to the continued expansion of their respective
economies in the medium and long term, shall develop and promote co-
- Page 66 -
operative activities between the governments of the Parties (hereinafter
referred to in this Chapter as “Co-operative Activities”) for peaceful purposes
in the field of science and technology on the basis of equality and mutual
benefit.
2.
The Parties shall also encourage, where appropriate, other co-
operative activities between parties, one or both of whom are entities in their
respective territories other than the governments of the Parties (hereinafter
referred to in this Chapter as “Other Co-operative Activities”).
Article 116
Areas and Forms of Co-operative Activities under Chapter 15
The Parties may agree on the areas and forms of Co-operative Activities,
which are to be specified in the Implementing Agreement .
Article 117
Joint Committee on Science and Technology
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Science and Technology (hereinafter referred to in this Article
as “the Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee
shall be:
(a) 
reviewing and discussing the co-operative relationship in the
field of scientific and technological development of the Parties
and the progress of Co-operative Activities and Other Co-
operative Activities;
(b)
exchanging views and information on scientific and
technological policy issues;
(c)
providing advice to the Parties with regard to the implementation
of this Chapter, which may include identification and
recommendation of Co-operative Activities and encouragement
of their implementation;
(d)
discussing ways of encouraging Other Co-operative Activities,
especially in the areas that the Parties consider important; and
(e)
discussing other issues relating to science and technology.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
- Page 67 -
Article 118
Protection and Distribution of Intellectual Property Rights
and other Rights of a Proprietary Nature
1.
Scientific and technological information of a non-proprietary nature
arising from Co-operative Activities may be made available to the public by
the government of either Party.
2.
In accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the Parties
and with relevant international agreements to which the Parties are, or may
become parties, the Parties shall ensure the adequate and effective
protection, and give due consideration to the distribution, of intellectual
property rights or other rights of a proprietary nature resulting from the Co-
operative Activities undertaken pursuant to this Chapter. The Parties shall
consult for this purpose as necessary.
Article 119
Costs of Co-operative Activities under Chapter 15
1.
The implementation of this Chapter shall be subject to the availability of
appropriated funds and the applicable laws and regulations of each Party.
2.
Costs of Co-operative Activities shall be borne in such manner as may
be mutually agreed.
Article 120
Implementing Arrangements
Implementing arrangements setting forth the details and procedures of Co-
operative Activities under this Chapter may be made between the government
agencies of the Parties.
CHAPTER 16
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Article 121
Co-operation in the Field of Human Resource Development
The Parties, recognising that sustainable economic growth and prosperity
largely depend on people's knowledge and skills, shall develop co-operation
between the governments of the Parties and encourage mutually beneficial
co-operation between parties, one or both of whom are entities in their
respective territories other than the governments of the Parties, in the field of
human resource development.
