- Page 388 -
ANNEX IVB
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
I.
Scope and Definitions
1.
This Annex applies to measures affecting telecommunications services
where specific commitments are undertaken.
2.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a) 
the term “telecommunications” means the transmission and
reception of signals by any electromagnetic means;
(b)
the term “public telecommunications transport service” means
any telecommunications transport service required, explicitly or
in effect, by a Party to be offered to the public generally.  Such
services may include, inter alia, telegraph, telephone, telex, and
data transmission typically involving the real-time transmission
of customer-supplied information between two or more points
without any end-to-end change in the form or content of the
customer’s information;
(c)
the term “public telecommunications transport network” means
the public telecommunications infrastructure which permits
telecommunications between and among defined network
termination points;
(d)
the term “essential facilities” means facilities of a public
telecommunications transport network or service that:
(i)
are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or
limited number of suppliers; and
(ii)
cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted
in order to provide a service;
(e)
the term “ major supplier” means a supplier that has the ability to
materially affect the terms of participation having regard to price
and supply in the relevant market for basic telecommunications
services as a result of:
(i)
control over essential facilities; or
(ii)
use of its position in the market;
- Page 389 -
(f)
the term “facilities-based suppliers” means:
(i)
for Japan, Type 1 Telecommunications Carriers provided
for in Article 12 of the Telecommunications Business Law
(Law No. 86, 1984); or
(ii)
for Singapore, Facilities-Based Operators; and
(g)
the term “services-based suppliers” means:
(i)
for Japan, Type 2 Telecommunications Carriers provided
for in Articles 22 and 27 of the Telecommunications
Business Law (Law No. 86, 1984); or
(ii)
for Singapore, Services-Based Operators.
II.
Competitive Safeguards
Prevention of Anti-competitive Practices in Telecommunications
1.
Each Party shall maintain appropriate measures for the purpose of
preventing suppliers, who alone or together are a major supplier, from
engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.
Safeguards
2.
The anti-competitive practices referred to in paragraph 1 above shall
include in particular:
(a)
engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidisation or pricing
services in a manner that gives rise to unfair competition;
(b)
discriminating unfairly in providing telecommunications services;
(c)
using information obtained from competitors with anti-
competitive results; and
(d)
not making available to other service suppliers on a timely basis
technical information about essential facilities and commercially
relevant information which are necessary for them to provide
services.
Asymmetric Regulation
3.
Each Party may, in accordance with its laws and regulations, determine
the appropriate level of regulation required to promote fair competition.
- Page 390 -
III.
Public Availability of Licensing Criteria
1.
Where a licence is required, each Party shall make publicly available
the following:
(a)
all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required
to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence; and
(b)
the terms and conditions of individual licences.
2.
Each Party shall make known to the applicant the reasons for the
denial of a licence upon request.
IV.
Interconnection
Interconnection to be Ensured
1.
Each Party shall ensure interconnection between a facilities-based
supplier and any other facilities-based supplier or a services-based supplier to
the extent provided for in its laws and regulations.
Interconnection with Major Suppliers
2.
Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier is required to provide
interconnection at any technically feasible point in the network. Such
interconnection is provided:
(a)
under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical
standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less
favourable than that provided for its own like services, for like
services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for like services of
its subsidiaries or other affiliates;
(b)
in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical
standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are
transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility,
and sufficiently unbundled(Note) so that the supplier need not pay
for network components or facilities that it does not require for
the services to be provided; and
Note:
“Sufficiently unbundled” network components or facilities include
unbundled local loop (including line sharing).
(c)
upon request, at points in addition to the network termination
points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that
reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities.
- Page 391 -
3.
Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier is required to allow other
suppliers who interconnect with the major supplier:
(a)
to locate their equipment which is essential for interconnection
within the major supplier’s buildings;(Note 1) or
(b)
to install their cables and lines which are essential for
interconnection within the major supplier’s buildings,(Note 1)
conduits,(Note 2) cable tunnels or telephone poles;
where physically feasible and where no practical or viable alternatives exist, in
order to interconnect smoothly with the essential facilities of the major
supplier.
Note 1: 
Buildings used for communications that house a point of
interconnection.
Note 2:
Underground communications facilities installed to accommodate or
protect underground cables and to connect manholes, etc.
Interconnection Pursuant to an Approved Reference Interconnection
Offer
4.
Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers  are required to provide a
reference interconnection offer for approval by the relevant regulatory
authorities. The reference interconnection offer shall be consistent with the
principles of  II of this Annex and shall contain written statements of the
charges and conditions on which a major supplier will interconnect with
suppliers.  At a minimum, the reference interconnection offer shall be required
to contain the following:
(a)
a list and description of the interconnection-related services
offered, the terms and conditions for such services, the
operational and technical requirements, and the procedures or
processes that will be used to order and provide such services;
(b)
a list of cost-based prices that a major supplier offers for all its
interconnection-related services. Where feasible, the major
supplier shall be required to use an established methodology
based on incremental forward-looking economic cost;
(c)
standard periods between the dates of request and
commencement which are stipulated in a clear manner and are
reasonable; and
(d)
a statement regarding the duration of the proposed
interconnection agreement, if it is fixed.
5.
Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of IV of this Annex are applied only to a major
supplier which has control over essential facilities.
- Page 392 -
Public Availability of the Procedures for Interconnection Negotiations
6.
Each Party shall ensure that the procedures applicable for
interconnection to a major supplier are made publicly available.
Transparency of Interconnection Arrangements
7.
Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier makes publicly available
either its interconnection agreements or reference interconnection offer.
V.
Interconnection Dispute Settlement
A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier shall have
recourse, either:
(a)
at any time; or
(b)
after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly
known;
to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred
to in VII  of this Annex, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms,
conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to
the extent that these have not been established previously.
VI.
Universal Service
Each Party shall have  the right to define the kind of universal service
obligation it wishes to maintain. Such obligations shall not be regarded as
anti-competitive per se, provided that they are administered in a transparent,
non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more
burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the
Party.
VII.
Independent Regulators
The regulatory body shall be separate from, and not accountable to, any
supplier of telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures
used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.
VIII.
Allocation and Use of Scarce Resources
Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including
frequencies, numbers and rights of way, shall be carried out in an objective,
timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  Each Party shall make
publicly available the current state of allocated frequency bands. Each Party
shall not be required to make publicly available detailed identification of
frequencies allocated for specific government uses.
