PROTOCOL 
AMENDING THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN JAPAN AND THE REPUBLIC OF 
SINGAPORE FOR A NEW-AGE ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP 
 
 
  Japan and the Republic of Singapore (hereinafter 
referred to in this Protocol as “the Parties”); 
 
  Having undertaken a general review of the Agreement 
between Japan and the Republic of Singapore for a New-Age 
Economic Partnership, signed in Singapore on January 13, 
2002 (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement”), pursuant 
to Article 10 of the Agreement;  
 
  Desiring to conclude a protocol to amend the Agreement 
pursuant to Article 151 of the Agreement; 
 
  HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
Article 1 
 
  Article 5 of the Agreement shall be amended by 
renumbering paragraph 2 as paragraph 3, and inserting the 
following new paragraph immediately after paragraph 1: 
 
“2.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the 
rights and obligations of either Party under any 
tax convention to which it is a party.  In the 
event of any inconsistency between this Agreement 
and any such convention, that convention shall 
prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.” 
 
Article 2 
 
  Article 11 of the Agreement shall be amended by 
deleting sub-paragraph (d) and renumbering sub-paragraphs 
(e) through (g) as sub-paragraphs (d) through (f) 
respectively. 
 
Article 3 
 
  Article 14 of the Agreement shall be amended as 
follows: 
 
1.   By inserting the expression “or reduce” immediately 
after the expression “eliminate” in paragraph 1; and 
 
1 2.   By deleting the expression “Annex I” in paragraph 1, 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 
and replacing it respectively by the expression “Annexes I 
A and I B”. 
 
Article 4 
 
  Article 18 of the Agreement shall be amended as 
follows: 
 
1.   By deleting paragraph 1 and replacing it by the 
following: 
 
“1.  Subject to the provisions of this Article, 
if an originating good of the other Party listed 
in the Schedule of a Party in Annex I B, as a 
result of the elimination or reduction of a 
customs duty in accordance with Article 14, is 
being imported into the territory of the latter 
Party in such increased quantities, in absolute 
terms, and under such conditions that the imports 
of that originating good alone constitute a 
substantial cause of serious injury, or threat 
thereof, to a domestic industry of the latter 
Party, the latter Party may, to the minimum 
extent necessary to prevent or remedy the injury 
and to facilitate adjustment: 
 
  (a)  suspend the further reduction of any 
rate of customs duty on the good; or 
 
  (b)  increase the rate of customs duty on 
the good to a level not to exceed the 
lesser of: 
 
    (i)  the most-favoured-nation applied 
rate of customs duty in effect at 
the time when the measure set out 
in this paragraph is taken; and 
 
    (ii)  the most-favoured-nation applied 
rate of customs duty in effect on 
31 March 2007.” 
 
2.  By deleting the expressions “a period of one year” and 
“a total maximum period of three years” in sub-paragraph 
(d) of paragraph 3 and replacing them respectively by the 
expressions “a period of two years” and “a total maximum 
period of four years”; 
 
2 3.  By deleting the expression “during the transition 
period” in sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph 3 and replacing 
it by the expression “for a period of time equal to the 
duration of the previous measure or one year, whichever is 
longer”; and 
 
4.  By inserting the following new paragraphs immediately 
after paragraph 8: 
 
“9.  (a)  In critical circumstances, where delay 
would cause damage which it would be 
difficult to repair, a Party may take a 
provisional emergency measure, which 
shall take the form of the measure set 
out in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of 
paragraph 1 of this Article pursuant to 
a preliminary determination that there 
is clear evidence that increased 
imports of an originating good have 
caused or are threatening to cause 
serious injury to a domestic industry. 
 
  (b)  The Party shall deliver a written 
notice to the other Party prior to 
applying a provisional emergency 
measure set out in sub-paragraph (a) 
above.  Consultations between the 
Parties on the application of the 
provisional emergency measure shall be 
initiated immediately after the 
provisional emergency measure is taken. 
 
  (c)  The duration of the provisional 
emergency measure set out in sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall 
not exceed 200 days.  During this 
period, the pertinent requirements of 
paragraph 2 of this Article shall be 
met.  The duration of the provisional 
emergency measure shall be counted as a 
part of the period referred to in sub-
paragraph (d) of paragraph 3 of this 
Article. 
 
3   (d)  Sub-paragraph (f) of paragraph 3 and 
paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of this Article 
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
the provisional emergency measure set 
out in sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph.  The customs duty imposed as 
a result of the provisional emergency 
measure shall be refunded if the 
subsequent investigation referred to in 
paragraph 2 of this Article does not 
determine that increased imports of the 
originating good have caused or 
threatened to cause serious injury to a 
domestic industry. 
 
10.  The Parties shall review the provisions of 
this Article, if necessary, after 31 December 
2017.” 
 
Article 5 
 
  Article 22 of the Agreement shall be amended by 
deleting sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) and replacing them with 
the following: 
 
“(b)  the term “non-originating material” means a 
material whose country of origin, as 
determined under this Chapter, is not the 
same country as the country in which that 
material is used in production; 
 
(c)  the term “production” means methods of 
obtaining goods including manufacturing, 
producing, assembling, processing, raising, 
growing, breeding, mining, extracting, 
harvesting, fishing, trapping, gathering, 
collecting, hunting and capturing; 
 
(d)  the terms “fungible originating goods of a 
Party” or  “fungible originating materials 
of a Party” respectively  mean originating 
goods or materials of a Party that are 
interchangeable for commercial purposes, 
whose properties are essentially identical; 
and 
 
4 (e)  the term “Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles” means the recognised consensus 
or substantial authoritative support within 
a Party at a particular time as to which 
economic resources and obligations should be 
recorded as assets and liabilities, which 
changes in assets and liabilities should be 
recorded, how the assets and liabilities and 
changes in them should be measured, what 
information should be disclosed and how it 
should be disclosed, and which financial 
statements should be prepared.  These 
standards may be broad guidelines of general 
application as well as detailed practices 
and procedures.” 
 
Article 6 
 
  Article 23 of the Agreement shall be amended as 
follows: 
 
1.  By deleting sub-paragraphs (f) and (g) of paragraph 
1 and replacing them by the following: 
 
“(f)  goods of sea-fishing and other goods taken 
from the sea, outside the territorial sea of 
that Party, by vessels: 
 
(i) which are registered in that Party; 
 
(ii) which sail under the flag of that Party; 
 
(iii) which are owned to an extent of at least 
51 per cent by nationals of either Party 
or both Parties, and/or by a juridical 
person(Note) with its head office in the 
territory of either Party, of which the 
representatives, chairman of the board 
of directors, and the majority of the 
members of such board are nationals of 
either Party or both Parties, and of 
which at least 51 per cent of the equity 
interest is owned by nationals and/or 
juridical persons of either Party or 
both Parties; and  
 
(iv)  of which at least 75 per cent of the 
total of the master, officers and crew 
are nationals of either Party or both 
Parties or non-Parties which are member 
countries of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations; 
 
5 Note:  For the purposes of sub-
paragraphs (f) and (g), the term 
“juridical person” means any 
legal entity duly constituted or 
otherwise organised under 
applicable law, whether for 
profit or otherwise, and whether 
privately-owned or 
governmentally-owned, including 
any corporation, trust 
partnership, joint venture, sole 
proprietorship or association. 
 
(g)  goods obtained or produced on board factory 
ships, outside the territorial sea of that 
Party: 
 
(i) which are registered in that Party; 
 
(ii) which sail under the flag of that Party; 
 
(iii) which are owned to an extent of at least 
51 per cent by nationals of either Party 
or both Parties, and/or by a juridical 
person with its head office in the 
territory of either Party, of which the 
representatives, chairman of the board 
of directors, and the majority of the 
members of such board are nationals of 
either Party or both Parties, and of 
which at least 51 per cent of the equity 
interest is owned by nationals and/or 
juridical persons of either Party or 
both Parties; and 
 
(iv)  of which at least 75 per cent of the 
total of the master, officers and crew 
are nationals of either Party or both 
Parties or non-Parties which are member 
countries of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations, 
 
provided that these goods are manufactured 
from goods referred to in sub-paragraph (f) 
above”; 
 
2.  By deleting the expression “For the purpose of sub-
paragraph (c) of paragraph 4” in paragraph 5 and replacing 
it by the expression “For the purpose of sub-paragraph (c) 
of paragraph 5”; 
 
6 3.  By deleting the expression “not less than 60 per cent” 
in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of paragraph 5 and replacing it by 
the expression “not less than 40 per cent”; 
 
4.  By deleting paragraph 6 and replacing it by the 
following: 
 
“6.  The value of a material used in the 
production of a good in a Party shall be the CIF 
value and shall be determined in accordance with 
the Agreement on Customs Valuation(Note), or, if 
this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the 
first ascertainable price paid for the material 
in the Party. 
 
Note:  The Agreement on Customs Valuation shall 
apply mutatis mutandis to domestic 
transactions or to the cases where there 
is no transaction of the material.”; and 
 
5.  By renumbering paragraphs 2 through 7 as paragraphs 3 
through 8 respectively, and inserting the following new 
paragraph immediately after paragraph 1: 
 
“2.  For the purposes of this Agreement, goods 
which are produced entirely in the territory of a 
Party exclusively from originating materials of 
the Party shall be treated as originating goods 
of that Party.” 
 
Article 7 
 
  Article 25 of the Agreement shall be amended by 
deleting the expression “each chapter of”. 
 
Article 8 
 
  Paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the Agreement shall be 
amended by deleting the expression “paragraph 2 of Article 
23” and replacing it by the expression “paragraph 3 of 
Article 23”. 
 
Article 9 
 
  The following new article shall be inserted 
immediately after Article 28 of the Agreement: 
 
7 “Article 28A 
Fungible Goods and Materials 
 
1.  For the purposes of determining whether a 
good is an originating good of a Party, where 
fungible originating materials of the Party and 
fungible non-originating materials that are 
commingled in an inventory are used in the 
production of the good, the origin of the 
materials may be determined pursuant to an 
inventory management method under the Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles in the territory 
of the Party. 
 
2.  Where fungible originating goods of a Party 
and fungible non-originating goods are commingled 
in an inventory and, prior to exportation, do not 
undergo any production process or any operation 
in the territory of the Party where they were 
commingled other than unloading, reloading or 
operations to preserve them in good condition, 
the origin of the goods may be determined 
pursuant to an inventory management method under 
the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in 
the territory of the Party.” 
 
Article 10 
 
  Article 33 of the Agreement shall be deleted and 
replaced by the following: 
 
“Article 33 
Assistance for Checking of Certificate of Origin 
 
1.  The importing Party may, within three years 
after the importation of the good, request the 
exporting Party to assist to check the 
authenticity or accuracy of the certificate of 
origin.  Where such request has been made, the 
exporting Party shall endeavour to take necessary 
measures to provide the assistance requested. 
 
2.  Paragraph 1 of Article 14 shall not be 
construed so as to oblige the importing Party to 
accord the preferential tariff treatment to a 
good whose qualification as an originating good 
cannot be determined by the importing Party even 
after checking the authenticity or accuracy of 
the certificate of origin with the assistance 
provided by the exporting Party in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Article.” 
 
8 Article 11 
 
  The following new article shall be inserted 
immediately after Article 33 of the Agreement: 
 
“Article 33A 
Miscellaneous 
 
1.  Communications between the importing Party 
and the exporting Party shall be conducted in the 
English language. 
 
2.  For the application of the relevant product-
specific rules set out in Annex II A and the 
determination of origin, any applicable valuation 
method under the Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in the territory of the exporting 
Party shall be applied.” 
 
Article 12 
 
  The following new articles shall be inserted 
immediately after Article 35 of the Agreement: 
 
“Article 35A 
Definitions under Chapter 4 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
  (a)  the term “customs administration” 
means, in Japan, the Ministry of 
Finance, and, in the Republic of 
Singapore (hereinafter referred to in 
this Agreement as “Singapore”), the 
Singapore Customs of the Ministry of 
Finance; and 
 
  (b)  the term “customs laws” means such laws 
and regulations administered and 
enforced by the customs administration 
of each Party concerning the 
importation, exportation, and transit 
of goods, as they relate to customs 
duties, charges, and other taxes, or to 
prohibitions, restrictions, and other 
similar controls with respect to the 
movement of controlled items across the 
boundary of the customs territory of 
each Party. 
 
9 Article 35B 
Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that all relevant 
information of general application pertaining to 
its customs laws is kept up to date and readily 
available to any interested person. 
 
2.  When information that has been made 
available must be revised due to changes in its 
customs laws, each Party shall make the revised 
information readily available to enable 
interested persons to take account of them. 
 
3.  At the request of any interested person of 
the Parties, each Party shall provide, as quickly 
and accurately as possible, information relating 
to the specific customs matters raised by the 
interested person and pertaining to its customs 
laws.  Each Party shall supply not only the 
information specifically requested but also any 
other pertinent information relating to customs 
matters which it considers the interested person 
should be made aware of.” 
 
Article 13 
 
  Article 56 of the Agreement shall be amended by 
deleting the expression “the Republic of Singapore 
(hereinafter referred to in this Agreement as “Singapore”)” 
and replacing it by the expression “Singapore”. 
 
Article 14 
 
  Annex I to the Agreement shall be renumbered as Annex 
I A to the Agreement, and Annex I B set out in Annex 1 to 
this Protocol shall be inserted immediately after Annex I A 
to the Agreement. 
 
Article 15 
 
1.  The schedule of specific commitments set out in Annex 
2 to this Protocol shall replace the corresponding sectors 
7.A. and 7.B. of Section II of Japan’s Schedule of specific 
commitments in Annex IV C of the Agreement. 
 
2.  The schedule of specific commitments set out in Annex 
3 to this Protocol shall replace the corresponding 
subsector 7.B.(a) of Section II of Singapore’s Schedule of 
specific commitments in Annex IV C of the Agreement. 
 
10 3.  The schedule of specific commitments set out in Annex 
4 to this Protocol shall replace the corresponding 
subsector 7.B.(i) of Section II of Singapore’s Schedule of 
specific commitments in Annex IV C of the Agreement. 
 
Article 16 
 
1.  This Protocol shall be approved by the Parties in 
accordance with their respective legal procedures, and 
shall enter into force on the 5th day after the date on 
which the Parties exchange diplomatic notes indicating such 
approval. 
 
2.  This Protocol shall remain in force as long as the 
Agreement remains in force. 
 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly 
authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have 
signed this Protocol. 
 
  DONE at Tokyo this 19th day of March of the year 2007 
in duplicate in the Japanese and English languages, both 
texts being equally authentic.  In case of any divergence 
of interpretation, the English text shall prevail. 
 
 
 
For Japan:  For the Republic of Singapore: 
11 