- Page 393 -
ANNEX IVC
JAPAN’S SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Alphabets indicated against individual sectors or subsectors and
numbers in brackets are references to the Services Sectoral
Classification List (GATT Document MTN.GNS/W/120, dated
10 July 1991) and the Provisional Central Product Classification
(Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Department of International
Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations,
New York, 1991).  These alphabetical and numerical divisions are
indicated to enhance the clarity in the description of specific
commitments, but shall not be construed as being a part of the specific
commitments.
2. The scheduling of specific commitments follows the Guidelines for the
Scheduling of Specific Commitments (WTO Document S/L/92, dated 28
March 2001). The Guidelines shall not, however, be construed as being
legally binding.
3. The modes of supply 1), 2), 3) and 4) indicated in this Schedule
correspond respectively to the supply of services defined in (i),(ii),(iii) and
(iv) of sub-paragraph (o) of paragraph 6 of Article 58.
4. The entry “Unbound*” means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility.
5. The use of   “**” against individual CPC codes indicates that the specific
commitment for that code does not extend to the total range of services
covered under that code.
6. Measures affecting (a) Passenger transport services by air; (b) Freight
transport services by air; and (c) Rental/Leasing services of aircraft
with crew/operator are not listed in this Schedule, as these are
measures affecting traffic rights or measures affecting services directly
related to the exercise of traffic rights to which this Agreement does
not apply. The commitment for Freight Transport Agency services
does not include freight forwarding services by air transport services.
7. Cabotage services in the maritime transport sector are not listed in this
Schedule, as Chapter 7 does not apply to those services.
8. A person who is permitted to supply road freight transportation
services, may also engage in the activities of pick-up, delivery, sorting,
conveyance and distribution of freight, in accordance with the specific
commitments in road freight transportation services. The following
conditions apply in this respect:
(a) no private operators shall use “postal services” as the name for
services provided by them; and- Page 394 -
(b) no private operators shall be engaged in pick-up, transport,
delivery, sorting, conveyance and distribution of correspondence
or letters specified in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 5 of the
Postal Law (Law No.165, 1947).
9. The Postal, Postal Savings and Postal Insurance Services are not
listed in this Schedule as these services are supplied in the exercise of
governmental authority to which this Agreement does not apply.- Page 395 -- Page 396 -
1 In this sector, the term “commercial presence” in Modes 1) and 2) means the office registration and presence of a service
supplier.- Page 397 -
Note for transparency
A service supplier must be recognised as "Gaikoku-Ho-Jimu-Bengoshi" by the Minister of Justice and register with the Japan Federation of Bar
Associations.
The conditions for granting recognition by the Minister of Justice are as follows:
(a) The service supplier is qualified as a lawyer in that jurisdiction.
(b) The service supplier has been engaged as a lawyer for at least 3 years in that jurisdiction.
(c) The service supplier is not subject to such conditions of disqualification in that jurisdiction which, if applied to Bengoshi, would disqualify the
Bengoshi.
(d) The service supplier possesses the intention to undertake the profession in good faith.
(e) The service supplier possesses plans, residence and financial basis to perform his functions properly and steadily.
(f) The service supplier possesses capability to compensate for damages caused to the client, if any.
2 A Patent Business Corporation under Japanese law is composed of two or more partners who are patent attorneys qualified as
“Benrishi” under Japanese law and who have the right and obligation to execute activities of the Patent Business Corporation.- Page 398 -
3 An Audit Corporation under Japanese law is composed of five or more partners who are accountants qualified as "Koninkaikeishi"
under Japanese law and who have the right and obligation to execute activities of the Audit Corporation.
4 A Certified Tax Accountant Corporation under Japanese law is composed of two or more partners who are tax accountants
qualified as “Zeirishi” under Japanese law and who have the right and obligation to execute activities of the Certified Tax
Accountant Corporation. “Koninkaikeishi” is also qualified to be “Zeirishi” upon registration as such.
5 Limited to services necessary for building construction excluding post-construction services.- Page 399 -
6 In the case where Architectural services B is supplied by a service supplier who is not qualified as "Kenchikushi" under Japanese
law, or by a service supplier not using "Kenchikushi", commercial presence is not required.
7 Limited to services necessary for building construction.
8 Excluding architectural services and civil engineering consulting services.
9 Limited to services necessary for civil engineering excluding engineering design services for buildings.- Page 400 -- Page 401 -- Page 402 -
10 In this sector, the term “nationality requirement” means that the ship must be owned by:
(a) a natural person with Japanese nationality; or- Page 403 -
(b) a juridical person established under Japanese law, with all representatives (“daihyosha”) and not less than two-thirds of
executives administering the affairs of the juridical person (“gyomu-wo-shikkosuru yakuin”) having Japanese nationality.
11 The term “ports of Japan which are not open to foreign commerce” means ports other than opened ports as defined in the
Customs Law.  The “opened ports” are as listed in the Appendix to this Schedule and shall include those additionally specified
as such by the said Law in the future.
12 In this sector,the term “nationality requirement” means that the aircraft must be owned by:
(a) a natural person with Japanese nationality; or
(b) a juridical person established under Japanese law, with all representatives (“daihyosha”) and not less than two-thirds of
executives (“yakuin”) having Japanese nationality and with not less than two-thirds of voting share held by Japanese
persons.- Page 404 -- Page 405 -- Page 406 -
13 The dispatched worker may not be supplied from outside of Japan through intra-corporate transfer.- Page 407 -
14 The term “Basic Survey” means a primary or fundamental survey, conducted by the Geographical Survey Institute of the
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, for all surveys.
15 The term “Public Survey” means a survey, other than Basic Survey, which:
(a) does not include (i) surveying for small areas and (ii) surveying where high accuracy is not required; and
(b) is conducted with the expenses borne or subsidised, in part or in full, by the Government or other public entities.- Page 408 -- Page 409 -- Page 410 -- Page 411 -- Page 412 -- Page 413 -
16 The term “Public Wholesale Market” means a market established under national or local government approval for commission
agents' services and wholesale trade services of fresh foods including vegetables, fruits, marine products, meats and other daily
foods, and flowers, with auction or bidding hall, parking lot and other facilities necessary for trade and disposal of above goods,
which is operated on a permanent basis.- Page 414 -- Page 415 -- Page 416 -
17 Specific commitments on market access and national treatment through any mode of supply shall not be construed to apply to the
recognition of credits, degrees and other certificates in Formal Education Institutions.  For this footnote, the term “Formal
Education Institutions” means elementary schools, lower secondary schools, secondary schools, upper secondary schools,
universities, colleges of technology, schools for the blind, schools for the deaf, schools for the handicapped, kindergartens,
special training colleges and miscellaneous schools.
18 The term “Formal Education Institutions” means elementary schools, lower secondary schools, secondary schools, upper
secondary schools, universities, colleges of technology, schools for the blind, schools for the deaf, schools for the handicapped
and kindergartens.
19 The term “school juridical person” means a non-profit juridical person established for the purpose of supplying educational
services under Japanese law.- Page 417 -
20 In this sector, the term “Formal Education Institutions” means elementary schools, lower secondary schools, secondary schools,
upper secondary schools, universities, colleges of technology, schools for the blind, schools for the deaf, schools for the
handicapped, kindergartens, special training colleges and miscellaneous schools.- Page 418 -- Page 419 -
 ADDITIONAL COMMITMENTS
A. Insurance and Insurance-Related Services
For the purposes of these ADDITIONAL COMMITMENTS, the commitments in Section A of ADDITIONAL COMMITMENTS in Japan’s
Schedule of Specific Commitments of the General Agreement on Trade in Services in Annex 1B to the WTO Agreement (WTO- Page 420 -
Document GATS/SC/46/Suppl.3) are incorporated into and made a part of these ADDITIONAL COMMITMENTS.
B. Banking and Other Financial Services (excluding Insurance and Insurance-Related Services)
1. Investment trust management services and discretionary investment management services may be supplied by one entity if that entity
satisfies the relevant prudential provisions of Japanese laws and the prudential standards set out by appropriate authorities.
2. Investment advisory companies are able to participate in the management of the fund assets of the Government Pension Investment
Fund, the National Government Employees Mutual Aid Association, the Local Government Employees Mutual Aid Association and the
Promotion and Mutual Aid Corporation for Private Schools of Japan.
3. Appropriate authorities will fully utilise the existing mechanisms available to them to respond expeditiously to accommodate innovations
in securities products, while ensuring the most appropriate supervision of markets from prudential viewpoints.- Page 421 -- Page 422 -- Page 423 -
21 The term “other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services” means the ability for
international maritime transport service suppliers of Singapore to undertake in Japan all activities which are necessary for the
supply to their customers of a partially or fully integrated transport service, within which the maritime transport constitutes a
substantial element. (This commitment shall however not be construed as limiting in any manner the commitments undertaken
under Mode 1).)
These activities include, but are not limited to:
(a) marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services through direct contact with customers, from quotation to
invoicing, these services being those operated or offered by the service supplier itself or by service suppliers with which
the service seller has established standing business arrangements;
(b) the acquisition, on their own account or on behalf of their customers (and the resale to their customers) of any domestic
transport and related services, including inward transport services by any mode, particularly inland waterways, road and
rail, but excluding air, necessary for the supply of the integrated service;
(c) the preparation of documentation concerning transport documents, customs documents or other documents related to the
origin and character of the goods transported;
(d) the provision of business information by any means, including computerised information systems and electronic data
interchange (subject to the provisions of Annex IVB);
(e) the setting up of any business arrangements (including participation in the stock of a company) and the appointment of
personnel recruited locally (or, in the case of foreign personnel, subject to the horizontal commitments in Part A of Annex
VI) with any locally established shipping agency;
(f) acting on behalf of the companies, organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required.- Page 424 -- Page 425 -- Page 426 -- Page 427 -
22 Before providing service, permission based on the Petroleum Pipeline Industry Law is necessary.- Page 428 -- Page 429 -
)
nt
e
m
e
e
r
g
A
s 
hi
of t
e 
r
u
at
n
g
si
of 
e 
DIXdat
Ne 
Eh
PPof t
As 
a
(
n 
a
p
a
J
of 
s 
rt
o
P
d 
e
n
e
p
O
of 
st 
Li