- Page 503 -
ANNEX VC
INVESTOR-TO-STATE DISPUTE SETTLEMENT
SPECIAL ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
1. Any request to establish an arbitral tribunal pursuant to this Annex shall
identify:
(a)  the name and address of the investor concerned;
(b)  the legal basis of the complaint including the provisions of
Chapter 8 alleged to have been breached; and
(c)  the factual basis for the complaint.
2. The investor and the Party shall, within 30 days after the date of receipt
of the request for the establishment of an arbitral tribunal, appoint one
arbitrator each.  If the Party fails to so appoint an arbitrator, the legal expert
designated by that Party pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 140 shall be
appointed as an arbitrator.  If the investor fails to so appoint an arbitrator, the
legal expert designated by the Party of which the investor is a national
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 140 shall be appointed as an arbitrator.
3. The investor and the Party shall agree on and designate a third
arbitrator, who shall chair the arbitral tribunal.  If they fail to agree on the third
arbitrator, they shall separately prepare and exchange a list of five persons
whom they can accept as the third arbitrator.  The third arbitrator shall be
chosen in the following manner:
(a) if only one name is common to both lists, that person, if
available, will be chosen as the third arbitrator;
(b) if more than one name appears on both lists, the investor and
the Party shall consult for the purpose of agreeing on the third
arbitrator from such names;
(c) if they are not able to reach agreement in accordance with sub-
paragraph (b) above or if there is no name common to both lists,
or the arbitrator agreed upon or chosen is not available and the
investor and the Party cannot decide on a replacement for the
arbitrator that is not available, then the two arbitrators appointed
pursuant to paragraph 2 above shall agree on the third
arbitrator; and
(d) if the arbitrators are not able to reach agreement on the third
arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be chosen by random drawing
in accordance with the procedure set out in the Appendix to this
Annex.
4. The third arbitrator shall be appointed within 40 days after the date of- Page 504 -
appointment of the second arbitrator.
5. The third arbitrator shall not, unless the investor and the Party agree
otherwise, be of the same nationality as the investor, nor be a national of the
Party, nor have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of either of
the Parties, nor be employed by either the investor or the Party, nor have
dealt with the investment dispute in any capacity.
6. The arbitral tribunal should be composed of arbitrators with relevant
technical or legal expertise.- Page 505 -
APPENDIX TO
ANNEX VC
PROCEDURE FOR SELECTION OF THIRD ARBITRATOR
FOR SPECIAL ARBITRATION PROCEDURE FOR
INVESTOR-TO-STATE DISPUTE SETTLEMENT
The following procedure applies for the random drawing for a third arbitrator,
as provided for in Annex VCpertaining to Investor-to-State Dispute Settlement
(hereinafter referred to in this Appendix as “Annex VC”):
(a) for the purposes of this Appendix, the investor that is requesting the
establishment of the arbitral tribunal pursuant to Article 82 is
hereinafter referred to as the “investor” and the Party to the investment
dispute is hereinafter referred to as the “Party”;
(b) unless the investor and the Party agree otherwise, the drawing takes
place in the territory of the Party, in the presence of representatives of
both the investor and the Party;
(c) the Party prepares a container with ten sealed envelopes, each of
which has, inside it, the name of one of the persons listed on the lists of
the investor and the Party, prepared pursuant to paragraph 3 of Annex
VC, such that there is exactly one envelope corresponding to each of
these persons;
(d) a representative of the investor shall remove, from the container, one
envelope, randomly and without being able to discern the identity of the
person to whom the envelope corresponds until after the envelope is
unsealed and opened;
(e) the person to whom that envelope corresponds shall be the third
arbitrator for the purposes of Annex VC; and
(f) after the drawing, the container, and the envelopes remaining therein,
shall be made available for verification by representatives of the
investor in the presence of representatives of the Party.