- Page 68 -
Article 122
Exchanges of Persons
1.
The Parties shall encourage exchanges of their scholars, teachers,
students, members of educational institutions and other persons engaging in
scientific or educational activities.
2.
The Parties shall also encourage co-operation and exchanges between
their youth and youth organisations with a view to promoting friendship
between them.
Article 123
Co-operation between Educational and Research Institutions
The Parties shall encourage close co-operation between their educational and
research institutions.
Article 124
Exchanges of Government Officials
The Parties shall promote exchanges of their government officials with a view
to enhancing mutual understanding of the policies of their respective
governments.  The details of the exchanges of such government officials shall
be specified in the Implementing Agreement.
Article 125
Ageing Population
The Parties shall exchange views and experiences on policy issues
concerning an ageing population.
CHAPTER 17
TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION
Article 126
Co-operation in the Field of Trade and Investment Promotion
The Parties shall co-operate in promoting trade and investment activities by
private enterprises of the Parties, recognising that efforts of the Parties to
facilitate exchange and collaboration between private enterprises of the
Parties will act as a catalyst to promote trade and investment in Japan,
Singapore and Asia.
Article 127
Review and Recommendation under Chapter 17
1.
The Parties recognise that certain co-operation between parties, one or
both of whom are entities in their respective territories other than the
governments of the Parties, could contribute to trade and investment
- Page 69 -
promotion between the Parties. Such co-operation shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
2.
The Parties shall review the co-operation set forth in paragraph 1
above and, where appropriate, recommend ways or areas of further co-
operation between the parties to such co-operation.
Article 128
Joint Committee on Trade and Investment Promotion
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Trade and Investment Promotion (hereinafter referred to in this
Article as “the Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the
Committee shall be:
(a)
exchanging views and information on trade and investment
promotion;
(b)
reviewing and discussing issues concerning the effective
implementation of this Chapter;
(c)
identifying and recommending ways of further co-operation
between the Parties; and
(d)
discussing other issues relating to co-operation in trade and
investment promotion.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 18
SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
Article 129
Co-operation in the Field of Small and Medium Enterprises
The Parties, recognising the fundamental role of small and medium
enterprises (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “SMEs”) in maintaining
the dynamism of their respective national economies, shall co-operate in
promoting close co-operation between SMEs of the Parties.
Article 130
Review and Recommendation under Chapter 18
1.
The Parties recognise that certain co-operation between parties, one or
both of whom are entities in their respective territories other than the
governments of the Parties, could contribute to close co-operation between
SMEs of the Parties.  Such co-operation shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
