- Page 509 -
SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS OF SINGAPORE
FOR THE MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS
Definitions
For the purposes of Singapore’s specific commitments:
(a) the term “managers” means natural persons within an organisation
who primarily direct the organisation or a department or sub-division of
the organisation, supervise and control the work of other supervisory,
professional or managerial employees, have the authority to hire and
fire or take other personnel actions such as promotion or leave
authorisation, and exercise discretionary authority over day-to-day
operations. “Managers” does not include first line supervisors, unless
the employees supervised are professionals, nor does it include
employees who primarily perform tasks necessary for the provision of
the service or operation of an investment;
(b) the term “executives” means natural persons within an organisation
who primarily direct the management of the organisation, exercise
wide latitude in decision-making, and receive only general supervision
or direction from higher level executives, the board of directors, or
stockholders of the business.  Executives would not directly perform
tasks related to the actual provision of the service or the operation of
an investment; and
(c) the term “specialists” means natural persons within an organisation
who possess knowledge at an advanced level of expertise and who
possess proprietary knowledge of the organisation’s service, research
equipment, techniques, or management.  “Specialists” may include but
is not limited to members of licenced professions.
PART A
A. Short-term business visitors
1.  Business visitors will be granted an initial stay of up to one month upon
arrival.  The stay may be extended up to a maximum of three months upon
application.
2.  “Business visitors” means natural persons of Japan who seek temporary entry
to Singapore to:
(a) negotiate the sale of services or goods where such negotiations do
not involve direct sales to the general public;
(b) establish an investment; or
(c) conduct or participate in business-related conferences, seminars or
workshops;
provided that such persons do not acquire remuneration from within
Singapore and are not seeking employment or residence in Singapore.- Page 510 -
B. Intra-corporate transferees
1. Entry for intra-corporate transferees is limited to a two year period that may
be extended for periods of up to three additional years each time for a total
term not exceeding eight years.  Further extensions may be possible.
2. “Intra-corporate transferees” refers to natural persons of Japan who are
managers, executives or specialists, who are employees of juridical persons
of Japan that supply services in Singapore and enterprises of Japan that
invest in Singapore through a branch, subsidiary, or affiliate established in
Singapore and who have been in the prior employ of their firms in Japan for a
period of not less than one year immediately preceding the date of their
application for admission.
PART B
A. Investors
1. Entry for investors is limited to a two year period that may be extended for
periods of up to three additional years each time for a total term not
exceeding eight years. Further extensions may be possible.
2. “Investor” refers to a natural person of Japan who establishes an enterprise in
Singapore, to which the person has committed a substantial amount of capital,
and who is a manager or an executive in the enterprise.
B. Natural persons who engage in work on the basis of a personal contract
with public or private organisations in the territory of Singapore
1. Entry for natural persons with a personal contract with public or private
organisations in the territory of Singapore who are employed as engineers is
limited to a two year period that may be extended for periods of up to three
additional years each time for a total term not exceeding eight years. Further
extensions may be possible.
2. “Engineers” refers to natural persons of Japan who possess acceptable
educational qualifications, experience and any other conditions as required
under the domestic laws and regulations of Singapore to provide engineering
services in Singapore.