- Page 2 -
Convinced that stronger economic linkages between them would provide
greater opportunities, larger economies of scale and a more predictable
environment for economic activities not only for Japanese and Singapore
businesses but also for other businesses in Asia;
Determined to create a legal framework for an economic partnership between
the Parties;
HAVE AGREED as follows:
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
Objectives
The objectives of this Agreement are:
(a) to facilitate, promote, liberalise and provide a stable and
predictable environment for economic activity between the
Parties through such means as:
(i) reducing or eliminating customs duties and other barriers
to trade in goods between the Parties;
(ii) improving customs clearance procedures with a view to
facilitating bilateral trade in goods;
(iii) promoting paperless trading between the Parties;
(iv) facilitating the mutual recognition of the results of
conformity assessment procedures for products or
processes;
(v) removing barriers to trade in services between the
Parties;
(vi) mutually enhancing investment opportunities and
strengthening protection for investors and investments;
(vii) easing the movement of business people including
professionals;
(viii) developing co-operation between the Parties in the field
of intellectual property;
(ix) enhancing opportunities in the government procurement
market; and- Page 3 -
(x) encouraging effective control of and promoting co-
operation in the field of anti-competitive activities; and
(b) to establish a co-operative framework for further strengthening
the economic relations between the Parties through such means
as:
(i) promoting regulatory co-operation in the field of financial
services, facilitating development of financial markets,
including capital markets in the Parties and in Asia, and
improving the financial market infrastructure of the
Parties;
(ii) promoting the development and use of information and
communications technology (hereinafter referred to in this
Agreement as “ICT”) and ICT-related services;
(iii) developing and encouraging co-operation in the field of
science and technology;
(iv) developing and encouraging co-operation in the field of
human resource development;
(v) promoting trade and investment activities of private
enterprises of the Parties through facilitating their
exchanges and collaboration;
(vi) promoting, particularly, trade and investment activities of
small and medium enterprises of the Parties through
facilitating their close co-operation;
(vii) developing and encouraging co-operation in the field of
broadcasting; and
(viii) promoting and developing tourism in the Parties.
Article 2
Transparency
1. Each Party shall promptly make public, or otherwise make publicly
available, its laws, regulations, administrative procedures and administrative
rulings and judicial decisions of general application as well as international
agreements which pertain to or affect the operation of this Agreement.
2. Each Party shall, upon request by the other Party, promptly respond to
specific questions from, and provide information to, the other Party with
respect to matters referred to in paragraph 1 above.- Page 4 -
Article 3
Confidential Information
1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to
provide confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede law
enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would
prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or
private.
2. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to
provide information relating to the affairs and accounts of customers of
financial institutions.
3. Each Party shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations, maintain
the confidentiality of information provided in confidence by the other Party
pursuant to this Agreement, including business-confidential information.
Article 4
Security and General Exceptions
1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:
(a) to require a Party to furnish any information the disclosure of
which it considers contrary to its essential security interests;
(b) to prevent a Party from taking any action which it considers
necessary for the protection of its essential security interests:
(i) relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the
materials from which they are derived;
(ii) relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements
of war and to such traffic in other goods and materials as
is carried on directly or indirectly for the purpose of
supplying a military establishment;
(iii) relating to the supply of services as carried out directly or
indirectly for the purpose of provisioning a military
establishment;
(iv) relating to the procurement of arms, ammunition or war
materials, or to procurement indispensable for national
security or for national defence purposes; or
(v) taken in time of war or other emergency within that Party
or in international relations; or
(c) to prevent a Party from taking any action in pursuance of its
obligations under the United Nations Charter for the
maintenance of international peace and security.- Page 5 -
2. In the application of paragraph 1 above, the relevant interpretations
and operation of the WTO Agreement shall, where appropriate, be taken into
account.
3. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from
taking any action necessary to protect communications infrastructure of
critical importance from unlawful acts against such infrastructure.
Article 5
Taxation
1. Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement, its provisions shall not
apply to any taxation measures.
2. Articles 2, 3 and 4 above shall apply to taxation measures, to the
extent that the provisions of this Agreement are applicable to such taxation
measures.
Article 6
Relation to Other Agreements
1. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any
other agreement to which both Parties are parties, the Parties shall
immediately consult with each other with a view to finding a mutually
satisfactory solution, taking into consideration general principles of
international law.
2. For the purposes of this Agreement, references to articles in the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO
Agreement (hereinafter referred to in this Agreement as “GATT 1994”) include
the interpretative notes, where applicable.
Article 7
Implementing Agreement
The Parties shall conclude a separate agreement setting forth the details and
procedures for the implementation of this Agreement (hereinafter referred to
in this Agreement as “the Implementing Agreement”).
Article 8
Supervisory Committee
1. A Supervisory Committee shall be established to ensure the proper
implementation of this Agreement, to review the economic relationship and
partnership between the Parties, and to consider the necessity of amending
this Agreement for furthering its objectives.
2. The functions of the Supervisory Committee shall include:
(a) reviewing the implementation of this Agreement;- Page 6 -
(b) discussing any issues concerning trade-related and investment-
related measures which are of interest to the Parties;
(c) encouraging each other to take appropriate measures which will
lead to significant improvement of business environment
between the Parties;
(d) considering and recommending further liberalisation and
facilitation of trade in goods and services, and investment;
(e) considering and recommending ways of furthering the objectives
of this Agreement through more extensive co-operation; and
(f) considering and recommending, at any time and whether or not
in the context of the general review provided for in Article 10,
any amendment to this Agreement or modification to the
commitments herein.
3. Where there are any amendments to the provisions of the WTO
Agreement on which provisions of this Agreement are based, the Parties
shall, through the Supervisory Committee, consider the possibility of
incorporating such amendments to this Agreement.
4. The Supervisory Committee:
(a) shall be composed of representatives of the Parties;
(b) shall be co-chaired by Ministers or senior officials of the Parties
as may be delegated by them for this purpose; and
(c) may establish and delegate responsibilities to working groups.
5. To promote dialogue between the government, academia and business
communities of the Parties, for the purpose of developing and enhancing the
economic partnership between the Parties, the working groups may, where
necessary, invite academics and business persons with the relevant expertise
to participate in the discussions of the working groups.
6. The Supervisory Committee shall convene once a year in regular
session alternately in each Party. Special meetings of the Supervisory
Committee shall also convene, within 30 days, at the request of either Party.
Article 9
Communications
Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate communications
between the Parties on any matter relating to this Agreement.- Page 7 -
Article 10
General Review
The Parties shall undertake a general review of the operation of this
Agreement in 2007 and every five years thereafter.
CHAPTER 2
TRADE IN GOODS
Article 11
Definitions under Chapter 2
For the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) the term “originating goods of the other Party” means goods of
the other Party which are treated as originating goods in
accordance with Chapter 3;
(b) the term “other duties or charges” means those provided for in
sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 of Article II of GATT 1994;
(c) the term “customs value of goods” means the value of goods for
the purposes of levying ad valorem customs duties on imported
goods;
(d) the term “transition period” means the period of 10 years
immediately following the entry into force of this Agreement;
(e) the term “serious injury” means a significant overall impairment
in the position of a domestic industry;
(f) the term “threat of serious injury” means serious injury that, on
the basis of facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture or
remote possibility, is clearly imminent; and
(g) the term “domestic industry” means the producers as a whole of
the like or directly competitive good operating in the territory of a
Party, or those whose collective output of the like or directly
competitive good constitutes a major proportion of the total
domestic production of the good.
Article 12
Classification of Goods
The classification of goods in trade between the Parties shall be in conformity
with the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (hereinafter
referred to in this Agreement as “the Harmonized System”).