- Page 62 -
CHAPTER 12
COMPETITION
Article 103
Anti-competitive Activities
1. Each Party shall, in accordance with its applicable laws and
regulations, take measures which it considers appropriate against anti-
competitive activities, in order to facilitate trade and investment flows between
the Parties and the efficient functioning of its markets.
2. Each Party shall, when necessary, endeavour to review and improve or
to adopt laws and regulations to effectively control anti-competitive activities.
Article 104
Co-operation on Controlling Anti-competitive Activities
1. The Parties shall, in accordance with their respective laws and
regulations, co-operate in the field of controlling anti-competitive activities
subject to their available resources.
2. The sectors, details and procedures of co-operation under this Chapter
shall be specified in the Implementing Agreement.
3. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, the Parties shall exchange
information as provided for in the Implementing Agreement with respect to the
implementation of this Chapter.  Article 3 shall not apply to such exchange of
information.
Article 105
Dispute Settlement
The dispute settlement procedures provided for in Chapter 21 shall not apply
to this Chapter.
CHAPTER 13
FINANCIAL SERVICES CO-OPERATION
Article 106
Co-operation in the Field of Financial Services
The Parties shall co-operate in the field of financial services with a view to:
(a) promoting regulatory co-operation in the field of financial
services;
(b) facilitating development of financial markets, including capital
markets, in the Parties and in Asia; and- Page 63 -
(c)  improving financial market infrastructure of the Parties.
Article 107
Regulatory Co-operation
1.  The Parties shall promote regulatory co-operation in the field of
financial services, with a view to:
(a)  implementing sound prudential policies, and enhancing effective
supervision of financial institutions of either Party operating in
the territory of the other Party;
(b)  responding properly to issues relating to globalisation in financial
services, including those provided by electronic means;
(c)  maintaining an environment that does not stifle legitimate
financial market innovations; and
(d)  conducting oversight of global financial institutions to minimise
systemic risks and to limit contagion effects in the event of
crises.
2. As a part of regulatory co-operation as set out in paragraph 1 above,
the Parties shall, in accordance with their respective laws and regulations, co-
operate in sharing information on securities markets and securities derivatives
markets of the respective Parties as provided for in the Implementing
Agreement, for the purposes of contributing to the effective enforcement of
the securities laws of each Party.
3. Articles 2 and 3 and Chapter 21 shall not apply to the co-operation
between the Parties in sharing information on securities markets and
securities derivatives markets as set out in paragraph 2 above.
Article 108
Capital Market Development
The Parties, recognising a growing need to enhance the competitiveness of
their capital markets and to preserve and strengthen their stability in rapidly
evolving global financial transactions, shall co-operate in facilitating the
development of the capital markets in the Parties with a view to fostering
sound and progressive capital markets and improving their depth and liquidity.
Article 109
Improvement of Financial Market Infrastructure
The Parties, recognising that efficient and reliable financial market
infrastructure will facilitate trade and investment, shall co-operate in
strengthening their financial market infrastructure.- Page 64 -
Article 110
Development of Regional Financial Markets including Capital Markets
The Parties, recognising the importance of stable and well-functioning
financial markets, including capital markets, shall co-operate with a view to
contributing to further development of cross-border financial activities in Asia
and to regional financial stability.
Article 111
Joint Committee on Financial Services Co-operation
1. For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Financial Services Co-operation (hereinafter referred to in this
Article as “the Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the
Committee shall include:
(a) reviewing and discussing issues concerning the effective
implementation of this Chapter;
(b) identifying and recommending to the Parties areas for further co-
operation; and
(c) discussing other issues relating to financial services co-
operation between the Parties.
2. The Committee may establish expert working groups to examine
specific issues and initiatives in detail.
3. The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 14
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
Article 112
Co-operation in the Field of ICT
The Parties, recognising the rapid development, led by the private sector, of
ICT and of business practices concerning ICT-related services both in the
domestic and the international contexts, shall co-operate to promote the
development of ICT and ICT-related services with a view to obtaining the
maximum benefit of the use of ICT for the Parties.
Article 113
Areas and Forms of Co-operation under Chapter 14
1. The areas of co-operation pursuant to Article 112 above may include
the following: