- Page 70 -
2.
The Parties shall review the co-operation set forth in paragraph 1
above and, where appropriate, recommend ways or areas of further co-
operation between the parties to such co-operation.
Article 131
Facilitation of SMEs Investment
The Parties, recognising the geographical position of Singapore in Southeast
Asia, shall co-operate in facilitating investments of Japanese SMEs in
Singapore, with a view to enabling SMEs of both Parties to co-operate in their
businesses, especially in Southeast Asia.  The Parties shall likewise co-
operate to facilitate investments of Singapore SMEs in Japan.
Article 132
Joint Committee on SMEs
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on SMEs (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Committee”)
shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing issues concerning the effective
implementation of this Chapter;
(b)
exchanging views and information on the promotion of SMEs co-
operation;
(c)
identifying and recommending ways of further co-operation
between the Parties; and
(d)
discussing other issues relating to SMEs co-operation.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 19
BROADCASTING
Article 133
Co-operation in the Field of Broadcasting
The Parties, recognising both the potential of broadcasting as a means for
promoting understanding between the Parties and the rapid development of
innovative broadcasting services, shall encourage co-operation in the field of
broadcasting between the Parties.
- Page 71 -
Article 134
Exchange of Views between Regulatory Authorities
The Parties, recognising that mutual understanding of the broadcasting
services in the respective Parties will enhance the ability of competent
authorities of the Parties to work together, and that strengthening the
relationship between regulatory authorities of the Parties will enable the
Parties to better cope with the emergence of new broadcasting services, shall
exchange views and information on issues relating to the field of
broadcasting, which may include:
(a)
broadcasting policy issues; and
(b)
newly emerging broadcasting services.
Article 135
Joint Committee on Broadcasting
1.
For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on Broadcasting (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the
Committee”) shall be established.  The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a)
reviewing and discussing the co-operative relationship between
the Parties in the field of broadcasting;
(b)
identifying and recommending further co-operation areas
between the Parties; and
(c)
discussing other issues concerning the effective implementation
of this Chapter.
2.
The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
CHAPTER 20
TOURISM
Article 136
Co-operation in the Field of Tourism
The Parties, recognising that tourism will contribute to the enhancement of
mutual understanding between the Parties and that tourism is an important
industry for their economies, shall co-operate to promote and develop tourism
in the Parties.
