- Page 79 -
(a) shall not be effected if, in respect of the dispute to which the
suspension relates, consultations, or proceedings before an
arbitral tribunal are in progress;
(b) shall be temporary, and shall be discontinued when the Parties
reach a mutually satisfactory resolution or where compliance
with the original award is effected;
(c) shall be restricted to the level of nullification or impairment that
is attributable to the failure to comply with the original award;
and
(d) shall be restricted to the same sector or sectors to which the
nullification or impairment relates, unless it is not practicable or
effective to suspend obligations in such sector or sectors.
8. If the implementing Party considers that the requirements in paragraph
5, 6 or 7 above have not been met, it may request consultations with the other
Party.  The other Party shall enter into consultations within 10 days after the
date of receipt of the request.  If the Parties fail to resolve matters within 30
days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations pursuant to this
paragraph, either Party may refer the matter to an arbitral tribunal.
9. The arbitral tribunal that is convened for the purpose of this Article
shall, wherever possible, have as its members, the members of the original
arbitral tribunal.  If this is not possible, then the members to the arbitral
tribunal shall be appointed pursuant to paragraphs 3 to 7 of Article 143.
Unless the Parties agree to a different period, such arbitral tribunal shall issue
its award within 60 days after the date when the matter is referred to it.
Article 148
Expenses
Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the expenses of the arbitral tribunal,
including the remuneration of its members, shall be borne by the Parties in
equal shares.
CHAPTER 22
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 149
Headings
The headings of the Chapters and the Articles and paragraphs of this
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the interpretation of this Agreement.- Page 80 -
Article 150
Status of Annexes
The Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 151
Amendment
This Agreement may be amended by agreement between the Parties.  If the
amendments relate only to the following areas, the amendments may be
made by diplomatic notes exchanged between the Government of Japan and
the Government of Singapore:
(a) Annexes IIAand IIB; and
(b) changes of laws, regulations and administrative provisions or
Designating Authorities specified in Part B of the Sectoral
Annexes in Annex III.
Article 152
Entry into Force
This Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day after the date on which
the Government of Japan and the Government of Singapore exchange
diplomatic notes informing each other that their respective legal procedures
necessary for entry into force of this Agreement have been completed.  It shall
remain in force unless terminated as provided for in Article 153 below.
Article 153
Termination
Either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving one year’s advance
notice in writing to the other Party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.
DONE at Singapore on this 13th day of January, 2002, in duplicate in the
Japanese and English languages, both texts being equally authentic.  In case
of any divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
For Singapore: For Japan:
Mr Goh Chok Tong Mr Junichiro Koizumi
Prime Minister Prime Minister
Singapore Japan