
CHAPTER 10
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Article 96
Areas and Forms of Co-operation under Chapter 10
1. The Parties, recognising the growing importance of intellectual property
(hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as “IP”) as a factor of economic
competitiveness in the knowledge-based economy, and of IP protection in this
new environment, shall develop their co-operation in the field of IP.
2. The areas of the co-operation pursuant to paragraph 1 above may
include:
(a) patents, trade secrets and related rights;
(b) trade marks and related rights;
(c) repression of unfair competition;
(d) copyright, designs and related rights;
(e) IP brokerage or licensing, IP management, registration and
exploitation, and patent mapping;
(f) IP protection in the digital environment and the growth and
development of e-commerce;
(g) technology and market intelligence; and
(h) IP education and awareness programmes.
3. The forms of the co-operation under paragraph 1 of this Article may
include:- Page 60 -
(a) exchanging information and sharing experiences on IP and on
relevant IP events, activities and initiatives organised in their
respective territories;
(b) jointly undertaking training and exchanging of experts in the field
of IP for the purposes of contributing to a better understanding
of each Party’s IP policies and experiences; and
(c) disseminating information, sharing experiences and conducting
training on IP enforcement.
Article 97
Joint Committee on Intellectual Property
1. For the purposes of effective implementation of this Chapter, a Joint
Committee on IP (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Committee”)
shall be established. The functions of the Committee shall be:
(a) overseeing and reviewing the co-operation and implementation
of this Chapter;
(b) providing advice to the Parties with regard to the implementation
of this Chapter;
(c) considering and recommending new areas of co-operation
under this Chapter; and
(d) discussing other issues relating to IP.
2.  The composition of the Committee shall be specified in the
Implementing Agreement.
Article 98
Facilitation of Patenting Process
1. Singapore shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations, take
appropriate measures to facilitate the patenting process of an application filed
in Singapore that corresponds to an application filed in Japan.
2. The details of such measures taken by Singapore pursuant to
paragraph 1 above shall be specified in the Implementing Agreement.
Article 99
Facilitation of the Use of IP Databases
The Parties shall take appropriate measures, as set out in the Implementing
Agreement, to facilitate the use of the Parties’ IP databases open to the
public.- Page 61 -
Article 100
Costs of Co-operative Activities under Chapter 10
Costs of co-operative activities shall be borne in such manner as may be
mutually agreed.
CHAPTER 11
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT
Article 101
Scope of Chapter 11
1. Paragraph 2 of Article I, and Article II to Article XXIII of the Agreement
on Government Procurement in Annex 4 to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter
referred to in this Agreement as “the GPA”) (except for sub-paragraph (b) of
paragraph 1 of Article III, Article V, paragraph 2 of Article XVI, paragraph 5 of
Article XIX, Article XXI, Article XXII and paragraph 1 of Article XXIII) shall
apply mutatis mutandis to procurement of goods and services specified in
Annex VIIA, by entities specified in Annex VIIB.  The threshold for a
procurement covered by the provisions of this Chapter is SDR 100,000.
2. Where entities specified in Annex VIIB, in the context of procurement
covered under this Agreement, require enterprises not included in Annex VIIB
to award contracts in accordance with particular requirements, Article III of the
GPA (except for sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1) shall apply mutatis
mutandis to such requirements.
3. When an entity listed in Annex VIIB is privatised, this Chapter shall no
longer apply to that entity.  A Party shall notify the other Party of the name of
such entity before it is privatised or as soon as possible thereafter.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3 above, a government entity is
construed as privatised if it has been re-constituted to be a legal person
operating commercially and is no longer entitled to exercise governmental
authority, even though the government possesses holdings thereof or
appoints members of the board of directors thereto.
5. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to derogate from the
obligations of the Parties as parties to the GPA.
Article 102
Exchange of Information on Government Procurement
The government officials of the Parties responsible for procurement policy
shall meet upon the request of either Party and, subject to the laws and
regulations of each Party, exchange information in respect of government
procurement.