
CHAPTER 6
MUTUAL RECOGNITION
Article 45
Definitions under Chapter 6
1. For the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) the term “conformity assessment procedure” means any
procedure to determine, directly or indirectly, whether products
or processes fulfil relevant technical requirements set out in the
applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of a
Party;
(b) the term “conformity assessment body” means a body which
conducts conformity assessment procedure, and the term
“registered conformity assessment body” means the conformity
assessment body registered pursuant to Article 53;
(c) the term “designation” means the designation of conformity
assessment bodies by a Designating Authority of a Party
pursuant to the applicable laws, regulations and administrative
provisions of that Party;
(d) the term “Designating Authority” means an authority of a Party
with the power to designate, monitor, withdraw the designation
of, suspend the designation of, and withdraw the suspension of
the designation of the conformity assessment bodies in its
territory that conduct conformity assessment procedures based
upon requirements set out in the applicable laws, regulations
and administrative provisions of the other Party;
(e) the term “criteria for designation” means the criteria which
conformity assessment bodies of a Party are required to fulfil in
order to be designated by the Designating Authority of that
Party, and other relevant conditions which designated
conformity assessment bodies are required to continuously fulfil
after the designation, as set out in the applicable laws,
regulations and administrative provisions of the other Party
specified in the relevant Sectoral Annex; and- Page 24 -
(f) the term “verification” means an action to verify in the territories
of the Parties, by such means as audits or inspections,
compliance with the criteria for designation by a conformity
assessment body.
2. Any term used in this Chapter, unless otherwise defined herein, has
the meaning assigned to it in the ISO/IEC Guide 2: 1996 Edition,
“Standardisation and related activities – General vocabulary”.
Article 46
General Obligations
Each Party shall accept, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, the
results of conformity assessment procedures required by the applicable laws,
regulations and administrative provisions of that Party specified in the relevant
Sectoral Annex, including certificates and marks of conformity, that are
conducted by the registered conformity assessment bodies of the other Party.
Article 47
Scope of Chapter 6
1. This Chapter applies to designation of conformity assessment bodies
and conformity assessment procedures for products or processes covered by
its Sectoral Annexes.  Sectoral Annexes may consist of Part A and Part B.
Sectoral Annexes are attached to this Agreement as Annex III.
2. Part A of Sectoral Annexes shall include, inter alia, provisions on scope
and coverage.
3. Part B of Sectoral Annexes shall set out the following matters:
(a) the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of
each Party concerning the scope and coverage;
(b) the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of
each Party stipulating the requirements covered by this Chapter,
all the conformity assessment procedures covered by this
Chapter to satisfy such requirements and the criteria for
designation of conformity assessment bodies; and
(c) the list of Designating Authorities.
Article 48
Designating Authorities
Each Party shall ensure that Designating Authorities have the necessary
power to designate, monitor (including verification), withdraw the designation
of, suspend the designation of and withdraw the suspension of the
designation of the conformity assessment bodies that conduct conformity
assessment procedures based upon the requirements set out in the- Page 25 -
applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the other Party
specified in the relevant Sectoral Annex.
Article 49
Verification and Monitoring of Conformity Assessment Bodies
1. Each Party shall ensure, through appropriate means such as audits,
inspections or monitoring, that the registered conformity assessment bodies
fulfil the criteria for designation set out in the applicable laws, regulations and
administrative provisions of the other Party specified in the relevant Sectoral
Annex.  When applying the criteria for designation of the conformity
assessment bodies, Designating Authorities of a Party should take into
account the bodies’ understanding of and experience relevant to the
requirements set out in the applicable laws, regulations and administrative
provisions of the other Party.
2. Each Party may request the other Party, by indicating in writing a
reasoned doubt on whether a registered conformity assessment body
complies with the criteria for designation set out in the applicable laws,
regulations and administrative provisions specified in the relevant Sectoral
Annex, to conduct verification of the conformity assessment body in
accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of that
other Party.
3. Each Party may, upon request, participate as an observer in the
verification of conformity assessment bodies conducted by the Designating
Authorities of the other Party, with the prior consent of such conformity
assessment bodies, in order to maintain a continuing understanding of that
other Party’s procedures for verification.
4. The Parties shall, in accordance with the procedures to be determined
by the Joint Committee on Mutual Recognition (hereinafter referred to in this
Chapter as “the Committee”) to be established pursuant to Article 52,
exchange information on methods, including accreditation systems, used to
designate the conformity assessment bodies and to ensure that the registered
conformity assessment bodies fulfil the criteria for designation.
5. Each Party should encourage its registered conformity assessment
bodies to co-operate with the conformity assessment bodies of the other
Party.
Article 50
Suspension of Designation
1. In case of suspension of the designation of a registered conformity
assessment body, the Party whose Designating Authority has suspended the
designation shall immediately notify the other Party and the Committee to that
effect.  The registration of that conformity assessment body shall be
suspended from the time of receipt of the notification by the co-chairman of
that other Party on the Committee.  The other Party shall accept the results of- Page 26 -
the conformity assessment procedures conducted by that conformity
assessment body prior to the suspension of the designation.
2. In case of lifting of the suspension of the designation of a registered
conformity assessment body, the Party whose Designating Authority has lifted
the suspension of the designation shall immediately notify the other Party and
the Committee to that effect.  The suspension of the registration of that
conformity assessment body shall be lifted from the time of receipt of the
notification by the co-chairman of that other Party on the Committee.  The
other Party shall accept the results of the conformity assessment procedures
conducted by that conformity assessment body from the time of lifting of the
suspension of the registration.
Article 51
Contestation
1. Each Party may contest the compliance with the criteria for designation
set out in the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions
specified in the relevant Sectoral Annex by a registered conformity
assessment body of the other Party.  Such contestation shall be notified to the
Committee and to that other Party in writing with an objective explanation of
the reason for the contestation.  The Committee shall discuss such
contestation within 20 days following the date on which such notification is
made.
2. Where the Committee decides to conduct a joint verification, it will be
conducted in a timely manner by the Parties with the participation of the
Designating Authority that designated the contested conformity assessment
body and with the prior consent of the conformity assessment body.  The
result of such joint verification shall be discussed in the Committee with a view
to resolving the issue as soon as possible.
3. The registration of the contested conformity assessment body shall be
suspended 15 days after the date on which the notification is made or on the
date on which the Committee decides to suspend the registration, whichever
is the sooner.  The registration of the contested conformity assessment body
shall remain suspended until the Committee decides to lift the suspension of
the registration of the conformity assessment body.  In the event of such
suspension, the contesting Party shall accept the results of conformity
assessment procedures conducted by that conformity assessment body prior
to the date of suspension.
Article 52
Joint Committee on Mutual Recognition
1.  A Joint Committee on Mutual Recognition (referred to in this Chapter
as “the Committee”), made up of representatives of both Parties, shall be
established on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, as a body
responsible for the effective implementation of this Chapter.- Page 27 -
2. The Committee shall take decisions and adopt recommendations by
consensus.  It shall meet at the request of either Party under the co-
chairmanship of both Parties.  The Committee may establish sub-committees
and delegate specific tasks to such sub-committees.  It shall adopt its rules of
procedure.
3. The Committee may consider any matter related to the operation of this
Chapter.  In particular, it shall be responsible for and/or decide on:
(a) registration of a conformity assessment body, suspension of
registration of a conformity assessment body, lifting of
suspension of registration of a conformity assessment body, and
termination of registration of a conformity assessment body;
(b) establishment and, unless otherwise decided, publication on a
sector- by- sector basis of lists of the registered conformity
assessment bodies;
(c) establishment of appropriate modalities of information exchange
referred to in this Chapter; and
(d) appointment of experts from each Party for the joint verification
referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 51 above and sub-
paragraph (c) of paragraph 1 of Article 53 below.
4. Without prejudice to Chapter 21, if any problem arises as to the
interpretation or application of this Chapter, the Parties shall, first of all, seek
an amicable solution through the Committee.
5.  The Committee is responsible for co-ordinating and facilitating the
negotiation of additional Sectoral Annexes.
6.  Any decision made by the Committee will be notified promptly in writing
to each Party.
7.  The Parties shall, through the Committee:
(a) specify and communicate to each other the applicable articles or
annexes contained in the laws, regulations and administrative
provisions set out in the Sectoral Annexes;
(b) exchange information concerning the implementation of the
applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions
specified in the Sectoral Annexes;
(c) notify each other of any scheduled changes in the laws,
regulations and administrative provisions related to this Chapter
prior to their entry into force; and
(d) notify each other of any scheduled changes concerning their
Designating Authorities and the registered conformity
assessment bodies.- Page 28 -
Article 53
Registration of Conformity Assessment Bodies
1. The following procedure shall apply to the registration of a conformity
assessment body:
(a) each Party shall make a proposal that a conformity assessment
body of that Party designated by its Designating Authority be
registered under this Chapter, by presenting its proposal in
writing, supported by necessary documents, to the other Party
and the Committee;
(b) the other Party shall consider whether the proposed conformity
assessment body complies with the criteria for designation set
out in the applicable laws, regulations and administrative
provisions of that other Party specified in the relevant Sectoral
Annex and indicate its position regarding the registration of that
conformity assessment body within 90 days from the receipt of
the proposal referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.  In such
consideration, such other Party should assume that the
proposed conformity assessment body complies with the
aforementioned criteria.  The Committee shall take a decision
whether to register the proposed conformity assessment body
within 90 days from the receipt of the proposal; and
(c) in the event that the Committee cannot decide to register the
proposed conformity assessment body, the Committee may
decide to conduct a joint verification or to request the proposing
Party to conduct a verification of the proposed body with the
prior consent of such body.  After the completion of such
verification, the Committee may reconsider the proposal.
2. The proposing Party shall provide the following information in its
proposal for registration of a conformity assessment body and keep such
information up to date:
(a) the name and address of the conformity assessment body;
(b) the products or processes the conformity assessment body is
authorised to assess;
(c) the conformity assessment procedures the conformity
assessment body is authorised to conduct; and
(d) the designation procedure and necessary information used to
determine the compliance of the conformity assessment body
with the criteria for designation.
3. Each Party shall ensure that its Designating Authority withdraws the
designation of a registered conformity assessment body when the
Designating Authority considers that the conformity assessment body no- Page 29 -
longer complies with the criteria for designation set out in the applicable laws,
regulations and administrative provisions of the other Party specified in the
relevant Sectoral Annex.
4. Each Party shall propose the termination of the registration of its
conformity assessment body when that Party considers that the conformity
assessment body no longer complies with the criteria for designation set out
in the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the other
Party specified in the relevant Sectoral Annex, or the Designating Authority of
that Party withdraws the designation of a conformity assessment body.
Proposals for terminating the registration of that conformity assessment body
shall be made to the Committee and the other Party.  The registration of that
conformity assessment body shall be terminated upon receipt of the proposal
by the co-chairman of that other Party on the Committee, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee.
5. In the case of a registration of a new conformity assessment body, the
other Party shall accept the results of conformity assessment procedures
conducted by that conformity assessment body from the date of the
registration.  In the event that the registration of a conformity assessment
body is terminated, the other Party shall accept the results of the conformity
assessment procedures conducted by that conformity assessment body prior
to the termination, without prejudice to paragraph 1 of Article 50 and
paragraph 3 of Article 51.
Article 54
General Exceptions under Chapter 6
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to limit the authority of a Party to
take measures it considers appropriate, for protecting health, safety or the
environment or prevention of deceptive practices.
Article 55
Miscellaneous Provisions under Chapter 6
1.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to oblige a Party to
accept the standards or technical regulations of the other Party.
2.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to entail an obligation upon
a Party to accept the result of the conformity assessment procedures of any
third country.
3. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to affect the rights and
obligations that either Party has as a party to the Agreement on Technical
Barriers to Trade in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement.
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to prevent a Party
from requiring a filing formality of products assessed by a registered
conformity assessment body of the other Party under this Chapter, provided
that such formality does not constitute conformity assessment procedures.- Page 30 -
Article 56
Territorial Application
This Chapter shall apply to the territory of Japan and to the territory of the
Republic of Singapore (hereinafter referred to in this Agreement as
“Singapore”).
Article 57
Sectoral Annexes
1. In case of conflict between the provisions of Part A of a Sectoral Annex
and Articles 45 to 57, the provisions of Part A of the Sectoral Annex shall
prevail.
2. If a Party introduces new or additional conformity assessment
procedures within the same product coverage to satisfy the requirements set
out in the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions specified
in the relevant Sectoral Annex, Part B of the Sectoral Annex shall be
amended to set out the applicable laws, regulations and administrative
provisions stipulating such new or additional conformity assessment
procedures, in accordance with the procedures set out in Article 151.
CHAPTER 7
TRADE IN SERVICES
Article 58
Scope of and Definitions under Chapter 7
1. This Chapter shall apply to measures by the Parties affecting trade in
services.
2. In respect of air transport services, this Agreement shall not apply to
measures affecting traffic rights, however granted; or to measures affecting
services directly related to the exercise of traffic rights, other than measures
affecting:
(a) aircraft repair and maintenance services;
(b) the selling and marketing of air transport services; and
(c) computer reservation system services.
3. This Chapter shall not apply to cabotage in maritime transport services.
4. Annexes IVA and IVB provide supplementary provisions to this Chapter
with respect to measures affecting the supply of financial services and of
telecommunications services respectively.
5. Government procurement of services shall be governed by Chapter 11.