- Page 61 -
Article 100
Costs of Co-operative Activities under Chapter 10
Costs of co-operative activities shall be borne in such manner as may be
mutually agreed.
CHAPTER 11
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT
Article 101
Scope of Chapter 11
1. Paragraph 2 of Article I, and Article II to Article XXIII of the Agreement
on Government Procurement in Annex 4 to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter
referred to in this Agreement as “the GPA”) (except for sub-paragraph (b) of
paragraph 1 of Article III, Article V, paragraph 2 of Article XVI, paragraph 5 of
Article XIX, Article XXI, Article XXII and paragraph 1 of Article XXIII) shall
apply mutatis mutandis to procurement of goods and services specified in
Annex VIIA, by entities specified in Annex VIIB.  The threshold for a
procurement covered by the provisions of this Chapter is SDR 100,000.
2. Where entities specified in Annex VIIB, in the context of procurement
covered under this Agreement, require enterprises not included in Annex VIIB
to award contracts in accordance with particular requirements, Article III of the
GPA (except for sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1) shall apply mutatis
mutandis to such requirements.
3. When an entity listed in Annex VIIB is privatised, this Chapter shall no
longer apply to that entity.  A Party shall notify the other Party of the name of
such entity before it is privatised or as soon as possible thereafter.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3 above, a government entity is
construed as privatised if it has been re-constituted to be a legal person
operating commercially and is no longer entitled to exercise governmental
authority, even though the government possesses holdings thereof or
appoints members of the board of directors thereto.
5. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to derogate from the
obligations of the Parties as parties to the GPA.
Article 102
Exchange of Information on Government Procurement
The government officials of the Parties responsible for procurement policy
shall meet upon the request of either Party and, subject to the laws and
regulations of each Party, exchange information in respect of government
procurement.