DIGITAL ECONOMY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED KINGDOM OF 
GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE REPUBLIC OF 
SINGAPORE 
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ("the United Kingdom") and 
the Republic of Singapore ("Singapore") (hereinafter jointly referred to as "the Parties" 
or individually referred to as "Party"), 
Recognising the deep and longstanding relationship, underpinned by the Joint Statement 
on the Singapore-UK Partnership for the Future and the Free Trade Agreement between 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Republic of Singapore, 
done at Singapore on 10 December 2020 (the "UK-Singapore Free Trade Agreement"); 
Recognising the economic opportunities and the wider access to goods and services 
brought about by the digital economy; 
Sharing a vision for greater integration and the digital transformation of the Parties' 
economies; 
Reflecting the forward-looking nature of their partnership and commitment to deepen 
bilateral cooperation in new and emerging areas; 
Further recognising the importance of ensuring all people and businesses of all sizes can 
participate in, contribute to, and benefit from the digital economy including the 
fundamental role of small and medium-sized enterprises in maintaining dynamism and 
enhancing competitiveness; 
Resolving to facilitate a trusted and secure digital environment that promotes consumer 
and business interests; 
Desiring to establish a dynamic framework for cooperation in the fast-paced and evolving 
digital economy; 
Complementing the Parties' international leadership roles in the pursuit of ambitious 
benchmarks, rules and standards for the digital economy; and 
Building on the Parties' rights, obligations and undertakings in the World Trade 
Organization ("WTO"), and other international and bilateral agreements and 
arrangements concerning digital trade and the digital economy, 
Have agreed as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Digital Economy Agreement: 
(a) 
"the Incorporated Agreement" is as defined in paragraph l(b) of Article 2 
(Definitions and interpretation) of the UK-Singapore Free Trade 
Agreement; and 
(b) 
"this Digital Economy Agreement" means this Digital Economy 
Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland and the Republic of Singapore. 
ARTICLE2 
Amendment of the UK-Singapore Free Trade Agreement 
The Parties hereby agree to amend the UK-Singapore Free Trade Agreement, in 
accordance with Article 8 (Amendments) of the UK-Singapore Free Trade Agreement. 
In particular, the Parties agree to: 
(a) 
replace the provisions of Section F (Electronic Commerce) of Chapter 
Eight of the Incorporated Agreement with the provisions as set out in 
Annex A to this Digital Economy Agreement; and 
(b) 
amend the Incorporated Agreement as set out in Annex B to this Digital 
Economy Agreement. 
ARTICLE 3 
Cooperation 
1. 
The Parties recognise the fast-paced and evolving nature of the digital 
economy, and the role of technical cooperation between the Parties in increasing and 
enhancing the opportunities provided by the digital economy. 
2. 
To this end, the Parties shall endeavour to cooperate on areas of mutual 
interest concerning the digital economy and shall also encourage businesses, 
researchers and academics in their respective territories to engage in this cooperation. 
The 
Parties 
may 
consider 
relevant 
input 
and 
information arising 
from 
cooperation efforts for the purposes of implementation and further modernisation of this 
Digital Economy Agreement. 
3. 
The Parties may undertake such cooperation under this Digital Economy 
Agreement, the UK-Singapore Free Trade Agreement or any instrument entered into by 
the Parties in connection with the conclusion of the Digital Economy Agreement, through 
efforts such as entering into memoranda of understanding and collaborative projects, or 
in the context of international fora which the Parties are participants in or members of. 
ARTICLE4 
Information Sharing 
1. 
Each Party shall establish or maintain its own free, publicly accessible website 
containing updated information regarding this Digital Economy Agreement, including: 
(a) 
the text of this Digital Economy Agreement; 
(b) 
a summary of this Digital Economy Agreement; and 
( c) 
any additional information that a Party considers would be useful for 
SMEs interested in benefitting from this Digital Economy Agreement and 
in participating in cooperation initiatives agreed by the Parties. 
2. 
Each Party shall make the information published in accordance with paragraph 1 
available in English. 
ARTICLE 5 
Integral Parts 
l . 
This Digital Economy Agreement shall form an integral part of the UK-Singapore 
Free Trade Agreement. 
2. 
The Annexes and footnotes to this Digital Economy Agreement shall form an 
integral part thereof. 
ARTICLE6 
Final Provisions 
1. 
This Digital Economy Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the 
second month following the date of the later of the Parties' written notifications certifying 
that they have completed their respective applicable legal requirements and procedures 
for the entry into force of this Digital Economy Agreement. The Parties may agree on 
another date for entry into force, provided such date occurs after the completion of the 
exchange of notifications referred to above. 
2. 
Any time after the date of entry of force of this Digital Economy Agreement, this 
Digital Economy Agreement, or specified provisions of this Digital Economy Agreement, 
may be brought into force for Gibraltar on the first day of the second month following the 
United Kingdom's written notification to Singapore certifying the completion of the 
applicable legal requirements and procedures for the bringing into force of this Digital 
Economy Agreement, or specified provisions of this Digital Economy Agreement, in 
respect of Gibraltar. The Parties may agree on another date, provided such date occurs 
after the United Kingdom's written notification referred to above. 
3. 
Any time after the date of entry of force of this Digital Economy Agreement, this 
Digital Economy Agreement, or specified provisions of this Digital Economy Agreement, 
may be brought into force for: 
(a) 
the Bailiwick of Guernsey; 
(b) 
the Bailiwick of Jersey1; or 
(c) 
the Isle of Man, 
on the first day of the second month following the United Kingdom's written notification 
to Singapore certifying the completion of applicable legal requirements and procedures 
for the bringing into force of this Digital Economy Agreement, or specified provisions of 
this Digital Economy Agreement, in respect of such territory.2 The Parties may agree on 
another date, provided such date occurs after the date of the United Kingdom's written 
notification referred to above. 
4. 
The United Kingdom shall submit notifications under this Article to the Director, 
North America and Europe Division, Singapore's Ministry of Trade and Industry or its 
successor. Singapore shall submit notifications under this Article to the United 
Kingdom's Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office or its successor. 
5. 
At any time after the date this Digital Economy Agreement has been brought into 
force for a territory referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, the United Kingdom may give 
written notice to Singapore that this Digital Economy Agreement, or specified provisions 
of this Digital Economy Agreement, shall no longer apply to such territory. To this end, 
the procedure as set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 16.14 (Duration) of the 
Incorporated Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis. 
The Bailiwicks of Guernsey and Jersey are jointly known as the Channel Islands. 
The Parties agree that, prior to this, the UK shall hold consultations with Singapore concerning the 
application of relevant provisions of the Incorporated Agreement to such territory. 
In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their respective 
Governments, have signed this Digital Economy Agreement. 
DONE in duplicate at Singapore on this 25th day of February 2022 in English. 
For the Government of the Republic of 
Singapore: 
For the Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland: 
ANNEX A 
SECTION F 
DIGITAL TRADE AND THE DIGITAL ECONOMY 
ARTICLE 8.57 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(a) 
"algorithm" means a defined sequence of steps, taken to solve a problem 
or obtain a result; 
(b) 
"ciphertext" means data in a form that cannot be easily understood 
without subsequent decryption; 
(c) 
"commercial information and communication technology product"3 
("Commercial Information and Communications Technology (ICT) 
Product") means a product that is designed for commercial applications 
and which intended function 
is 
information processing and 
communication by electronic means, including transmission and display, 
or electronic processing applied to determine or record physical 
phenomena, or to control physical processes; 
(d) 
"computing facilities" means a computer server or storage device for 
processing or storing information for commercial use; 
(e) 
"covered person" means: 
For greater certainty, for the purposes of this Section, a commercial ICT product does not include 
a financial instrument. 
(i) 
an establishment of a Party as defined in subparagraph (d) of 
Article 8.8 (Definitions); 
(ii) 
an entrepreneur as defined in subparagraph (c) of Article 8.8 
(Definitions); or 
(iii) a service supplier of a Party as defined in subparagraph (1) of 
Article 8.2 (Definitions), 
but does not include a financial service supplier as defined in 
subparagraph 2(d) of Article 8.49 (Scope and Definitions); 
(f) 
"cryptographic algorithm" means a defined method of transforming data 
using cryptography; 
(g) 
"cryptography" means the principles, means or methods for the 
transformation of data in order to conceal or disguise its content, prevent 
its undetected modification, or prevent its unauthorised use, and is 
limited to principles, means or methods where one or more secret 
parameters, for example, crypto variables, or associated key 
management is required in order to transform the data or to perform the 
corresponding reverse transformation; 
(h) 
"electronic authentication" means the electronic process or act of 
verifying the identity of a party to an electronic communication or 
transaction, or of ensuring the integrity of an electronic communication; 
(i) 
"electronic invoicing" means the automated creation, exchange, and 
processing of requests for payments between suppliers and buyers using 
a structured digital format; 
(j) 
"electronic signature" means data in electronic form that is in, affixed to, 
or logically associated with an electronic data message that may be used 
to identify the signatory in relation to the data message and indicate the 
signatory's approval of the information contained in the data message4; 
(k) 
"electronic transferable record" means a document or instrument in 
electronic form which under a Party's laws or regulations is both 
functionally equivalent to a transferable record and satisfies quality 
requirements such as those referenced in Article 10 of the UNCITRAL 
Model Law on Electronic Transferable Records of 2017; 
(1) 
"electronic transmission" or "transmitted electronically" means a 
transmission made using any electromagnetic means, including by 
photonic means; 
(m) "emerging technology" means an enabling and innovative technology 
that has potentially significant application across a wide range of existing 
and future sectors; 
(n) 
"encryption" means the conversion of data (plaintext) through the use of 
a cryptographic algorithm into a ciphertext using the appropriate key; 
( o) 
"end-user" means a natural person, or juridical person to the extent 
provided for in a Party's laws and regulations, using or requesting a 
public telecommunications service, either as a consumer or for trade, 
business, or professional purposes; 
(p) 
"government 
information" 
means 
non-proprietary 
information, 
including data, held by the central government; 
4 
For greater certainty, nothing in this provision prevents a Party from according greater 
legal effect to an electronic signature that satisfies certain requirements, such as 
indicating that the electronic data message has not been altered or verifying the 
identity of the signatory. 
( q) 
"key" means a parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic 
algorithm that determines its operation in such a way that a person or any 
entity with knowledge of the key can reproduce or reverse the operation, 
but a person or any entity without knowledge of the key cannot; 
(r) 
"Lawtech" describes technologies that aim to support, supplement or 
replace traditional methods for delivering legal services; 
(s) 
"personal information" means any information, including data, about an 
identified or identifiable natural person; 
(t) 
"public 
telecommunications 
service" 
means 
a 
public 
telecommunications service as defined in subparagraph (i) of Article 
8.25 (Definitions); 
(u) 
"trade administration document" means the forms and documents issued 
or controlled by a Party that must be completed by or for an importer or 
exporter in connection with the import or export of goods; and 
(v) 
"unsolicited commercial electronic message" means an electronic 
message5 that is sent for commercial or marketing purposes directly to 
an electronic address of an end-user via a public telecommunications 
service, without the consent of the recipient or despite the explicit 
rejection of the recipient. 
For greater certainty, an electronic message includes electronic mail and text (Short 
Message Service) and multimedia (Multimedia Message Service) messages. 
ARTICLE 8.58 
Objectives and Scope 
1. 
The Parties recognise the economic benefits of, and opportunities 
provided by, open and connected digital markets. 
2. 
The Parties further recognise the importance of: 
(a) 
avoiding unnecessary barriers to the use and development of digital 
trading systems; 
(b) 
promoting the interoperability of regulatory frameworks to facilitate 
seamless end-to-end digital trade; 
(c) 
international cooperation with a view to developing frameworks to 
govern digital trade that are open and inclusive; and 
( d) 
adopting frameworks that: 
(i) 
take into account emerging technologies; 
(ii) 
facilitate a trusted and secure digital environment; 
(iii) promote consumer confidence in digital trade; and 
(iv) ensure all people and businesses of all sizes can participate in, 
contribute to, and benefit from the digital economy. 
3. 
This Section shall apply to measures of the Parties affecting trade 
enabled by electronic means. 
4. 
This Section shall not apply to: 
(a) 
audio-visual services; 
(b) 
government procurement, except as provided for in paragraph 4 of 
Article 8.60 (Domestic Electronic Transactions Framework and 
Electronic Contracts), paragraph 1 of Article 8.61 (Electronic 
Authentication) and Article 8.61-Q (Small and Medium-sized 
Enterprises); or 
(c) 
information held or processed by or on behalf of a Party, or measures 
of a Party related to that information, including measures related to 
its collection, except as provided for in Article 8.61-H (Open 
Government Information). 
5. 
For greater certainty, a measure that affects the supply of a service 
delivered or performed electronically is subject to the obligations contained in 
relevant provisions of Chapter Eight of this Agreement, including Annex 8-A 
and Annex 8-B of this Agreement, as well as any exceptions that are applicable 
to those obligations. 
ARTICLE 8.59 
Customs Duties 
1. 
Neither Party shall impose customs duties on electronic transmissions, 
including content transmitted electronically, between a person of a Party and a 
person of the other Party. 
2. 
For greater certainty, paragraph 1 shall not preclude a Party from 
imposing internal taxes, fees, or other charges on electronic transmissions, 
including content transmitted electronically, provided that such taxes, fees, or 
charges are imposed in a manner consistent with this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 8.60 
Domestic Electronic Transactions Framework and Electronic Contracts 
1. 
Each Party shall maintain a legal framework governing electronic 
transactions consistent with the principles of the UNCITRAL Model Law on 
Electronic Commerce 1996 or the United Nations Convention on the Use of 
Electronic Communications in International Contracts done at New York, 23 
November 2005. 
2. 
Each Party shall endeavour to: 
(a) 
avoid any unnecessary regulatory burden on electronic transactions; 
and 
(b) 
facilitate input by interested persons in the development of its legal 
framework for electronic transactions. 
3. 
The Parties recogruse the importance of facilitating the use of 
electronic transferable records. To this end, each Party shall endeavour to 
establish a legal framework governing electronic transferable records 
consistent with the UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Transferable 
Records 201 7. 
4. 
Except in circumstances otherwise provided for in its domestic law, 
neither Party shall deny the legal effect, legal validity or enforceability of an 
electronic contract, solely on the basis that the contract has been concluded by 
electronic means. 
5. 
Recognising the importance of transparency for minimising barriers to 
digital trade, each Party shall maintain on a publicly accessible website a list 
of the circumstances referred to in paragraph 4. 
6. 
With the aim of increasing the use of electronic contracts, each Party 
shall review its list referred to in paragraph 5 on an ongoing basis. 
ARTICLE 8.61 
Electronic Authentication 
1. 
Except in circumstances otherwise provided for under its laws and 
regulations, a Party shall not deny the legal validity or legal effect of an 
electronic signature solely on the basis that the signature is in electronic form. 
2. 
Neither Party shall adopt or maintain a measure that would: 
(a) 
prohibit parties to an electronic transaction from mutually determining 
the appropriate electronic authentication methods or electronic 
signature for that transaction; or 
(b) 
prevent parties to an electronic transaction from being able to prove to 
judicial and administrative authorities that the use of electronic 
authentication or an electronic signature in that transaction complies 
with the applicable legal requirements. 
3. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, a Party may require that, for a particular 
category of transactions, the method of electronic authentication or the 
electronic signature is certified by an authority accredited in accordance with 
its laws and regulations or meets certain performance standards. 
4. 
The Parties shall encourage the use of interoperable electronic 
authentication and work towards the mutual recognition of electronic 
authentication and electronic digital signatures. 
5. 
To the extent provided for in its laws and regulations, each Party shall 
apply paragraphs 1 to 3 to electronic seals, electronic time stamps, or electronic 
registered delivery services. 
6. 
To the extent provided for in its laws and regulations, each Party shall 
apply paragraph 1 to the authenticating data resulting from electronic 
authentication. 
ARTICLE 8.61-A 
Electronic Invoicing 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of electronic invoicing to increase 
the efficiency, accuracy and reliability of commercial transactions. Each Party 
also recognises the benefits of ensuring that the systems used for electronic 
invoicing within its territory are interoperable with the systems used for 
electronic invoicing in the other Party's territory. 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that the implementation of measures related to 
electronic invoicing in its territory supports cross-border interoperability 
between the Parties' electronic invoicing frameworks. To this end, each Party 
shall take into account international frameworks when developing measures 
related to electronic invoicing, such as Peppol. 
3. 
The Parties recognise the economic importance of promoting the global 
adoption of interoperable electronic invoicing systems. To this end, the Parties 
shall share best practices and collaborate, where appropriate, on promoting the 
adoption of interoperable systems for electronic invoicing. 
4. 
The Parties recognise the benefits of promoting, encouraging, 
supporting or facilitating the adoption of electronic invoicing by juridical 
persons. To this end, the Parties shall endeavour to promote the existence of 
policies, infrastructure or processes that support electronic invoicing. 
ARTICLE 8.61-B 
Paperless Trading 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of digital connectivity in enabling 
trade. To this end, the Parties aim to facilitate cross-border supply chain 
digitalisation with a focus on interoperability. 
2. 
Each Party shall make trade administration documents available to the 
public in electronic form and in English. 
3. 
Each Party shall accept completed electronic versions of trade 
administration documents as the legal equivalent of paper documents, except 
where that Party is: 
(a) 
subject to a domestic or international legal requirement to the contrary; 
or 
(b) 
doing so would reduce the effectiveness of the trade administration 
process. 
4. 
The Parties shall, where appropriate, cooperate bilaterally and in 
international fora on matters related to paperless trading, including by 
promoting the acceptance of electronic versions of trade administration 
documents and supporting documents. 
5. 
In developing initiatives concerning the use of paperless trading, each 
Party shall endeavour to take into account the principles and guidelines of 
relevant international bodies. 
ARTICLE 8.61-C 
Logistics 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of efficient cross-border logistics 
which help lower the cost and improve the speed and reliability of supply 
chains. 
2. 
The Parties shall endeavour to share best practices and general 
information regarding the logistics sector, including: 
(a) 
last mile deliveries, including on-demand and dynamic routing 
solutions; 
(b) 
the use of electric, remote controlled and autonomous vehicles; 
(c) 
facilitating the availability of cross-border options for the delivery of 
goods, such as parcel lockers; and 
( d) 
new delivery and business models for logistics. 
ARTICLE 8.61-D 
Standards and Conformity Assessment 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance and contribution of standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures in fostering a 
well-functioning digital economy, and further recognise their role in reducing 
barriers to trade by increasing compatibility, interoperability, and reliability. 
2. 
The Parties shall endeavour to participate and cooperate or, where 
appropriate, encourage their respective bodies to participate and cooperate, in 
areas of mutual interest in international fora that both Parties are party to, to 
promote the development of standards relating to digital trade. 
3. 
The Parties recognise that mechanisms that facilitate the cross-border 
recognition of conformity assessment results can support the digital economy. 
4. 
To this end, the Parties shall endeavour or, where appropriate, 
encourage their respective bodies, in areas of mutual interest, to: 
(a) 
exchange best practices relating to the development and application of 
standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures 
that are related to the digital economy; 
(b) 
participate actively in international fora that both Parties or their 
respective bodies are party to in order to develop standards that are 
related to digital trade and to promote their adoption; 
( c) 
identify, develop, and promote joint initiatives in the field of standards 
and conformity assessment that are related to digital trade; 
(d) 
actively consider the other Party's and its respective bodies' proposals 
for cooperation on standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures relating to digital trade; and 
(e) 
cooperate between governmental and non-governmental bodies, 
including cross-border research or test-bedding projects, to develop a 
greater understanding, between the Parties and industry, of standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. 
5. 
The Parties acknowledge the importance of information exchange and 
transparency with regard to the preparation, adoption and application of 
standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures for 
digital trade. Each Party should endeavour to, upon request, or where 
appropriate, encourage their respective bodies to provide information on 
standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures relating 
to digital trade, in print or electronically, within a reasonable period of time 
agreed by the Parties and, if possible, within 60 days. 
ARTICLE 8.61-E 
Personal Information Protection 
1. 
The Parties recognise the economic and social benefits of protecting 
the personal information of natural persons who are involved in digital trade, 
including electronic transactions, and the contribution that this makes to 
enhancing consumer confidence in the digital economy and the development 
of trade. 
2. 
To this end, each Party shall adopt or maintain a legal framework that 
provides for the protection of personal information of natural persons who are 
involved in digital trade, including electronic transactions. In the development 
of its legal framework for the protection of personal information, each Party 
shall take into account the principles and guidelines of relevant international 
bodies.1 
3. 
The Parties agree that the key principles for its legal framework, which 
take into account the principles of relevant international bodies, shall include: 
limitation on collection; data quality; purpose specification; use limitation; 
security safeguards; transparency; individual participation; and accountability. 
4. 
Each Party shall adopt non-discriminatory practices in protecting 
natural persons who are involved in digital trade, including electronic 
transactions, from personal information protection violations occurring within 
its territory. 
5. 
Each Party shall publish information on the personal information 
protections it provides to natural persons who are involved in digital trade, 
including electronic transactions, including how: 
(a) 
a natural person can pursue a remedy; and 
(b) 
a juridical person can comply with any legal requirements. 
For greater certainty, a Party may comply with the obligation in this paragraph by 
adopting or maintaining measures such as comprehensive privacy, personal 
information or personal data protection laws, or sector-specific laws covering data 
protection or privacy. 
6. 
Recognising that the Parties may take different legal approaches to 
protecting personal information, each Party shall encourage the development 
and adoption of mechanisms to promote compatibility and interoperability 
between these different regimes. These mechanisms may include mutual 
arrangements, or broader international frameworks. The Parties recognise that 
in accordance with their respective laws and regulations, there are existing 
mechanisms, including contractual provisions, for the transfer of personal 
information between their respective territories. 
7. 
The Parties shall endeavour to exchange information on how the 
mechanisms in paragraph 6 are applied in their respective territory and explore 
ways to extend these or other suitable arrangements to promote compatibility 
and interoperability between them. 
ARTICLE 8.61-F 
Cross-Border Transfer of Information by Electronic Means 
1. 
The Parties recognise that each Party may have its own regulatory 
requirements concerning the transfer of information by electronic means. 
2. 
Neither Party shall prohibit or restrict the cross-border transfer of 
information by electronic means, including personal information, if this 
activity is for the conduct of the business of a covered person. 
3. 
Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from adopting or 
maintaining a measure inconsistent with paragraph 2 to achieve a legitimate 
public policy objective, provided that the measure: 
(a) 
is not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary 
or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade; and 
(b) 
does not impose restrictions on transfers of information greater than are 
required to achieve the objective. 
ARTICLE 8.61-G 
Location of Computing Facilities 
1. 
The Parties recognise that each Party may have its own regulatory 
requirements regarding the use of computing facilities, including requirements 
that seek to ensure the security and confidentiality of communications. 
2. 
Neither Party shall require a covered person to use or locate computing 
facilities in that Party's territory as a condition for conducting business in that 
territory. 
3. 
Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from adopting or 
maintaining a measure inconsistent with paragraph 2 to achieve a legitimate 
public policy objective, provided that the measure: 
(a) 
is not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary 
or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade; and 
(b) 
does not impose restrictions on the use or location of computing 
facilities greater than are required to achieve the objective. 
ARTICLE 8.61-H 
Open Government Information 
1. 
The Parties recognise that facilitating public access to, and use of, 
government information may foster economic and social development, 
competitiveness, and innovation. 
2. 
To the extent that a Party chooses to make government information 
available to the public, it shall endeavour to ensure: 
(a) 
that the information is appropriately anonymised, contains descriptive 
metadata and is in a machine readable and open format that allows it to 
be searched, retrieved, used, reused and redistributed; and 
(b) 
to the extent practicable, that the information is made available in a 
spatially enabled format with reliable, easy to use and freely available 
Application Programming Interfaces ("APis") and is regularly updated. 
3. 
The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate to identify ways in which each 
Party can expand access to, and the use of, government information that the 
Party has made available to the public, with a view to enhancing and generating 
business and research opportunities, especially for small and medium-sized 
enterprises ("SMEs"). 
ARTICLE 8.61-1 
Data Innovation 
1. 
The Parties recognise that digitalisation and the use of data promote 
economic growth. To support the cross-border transfer of information by 
electronic means and promote data-driven innovation, the Parties further 
recognise the need to create an environment that enables, supports, and is 
conducive to, experimentation and innovation, including through the use of 
regulatory sandboxes where applicable. 
2. 
The Parties shall endeavour to support data innovation through: 
(a) 
collaborating on data sharing projects, including projects involving 
researchers, academics and industry, using regulatory sandboxes as 
required to demonstrate the benefits of the cross-border transfer of 
information by electronic means; 
(b) 
cooperating on the development of policies and standards for data 
mobility, including consumer data portability; and 
(c) 
sharing policy approaches and industry practices related to data 
sharing, such as data trusts. 
ARTICLE 8.61-J 
Commercial Information and Communication Technology Products that Use 
Cryptography 
1. 
This Article applies to commercial ICT products that use cryptography. 
This Article does not apply to: 
(a) 
a Party's law enforcement authorities requiring service suppliers using 
encryption to provide access to encrypted and unencrypted 
communications pursuant to that Party's legal procedures; 
(b) 
the regulation of financial instruments; 
( c) 
measures that a Party adopts or maintains relating to access to 
networks, including user devices, that are owned or controlled by that 
Party, including those of central banks; 
( d) 
measures that a Party adopts or maintains pursuant to supervisory, 
investigatory or examination authority relating to financial service 
suppliers or financial markets; or 
( e) 
the manufacture, sale, distribution, import or use of a commercial ICT 
product by or for a Party. 
2. 
Neither Party shall require a manufacturer or supplier of a commercial 
ICT product that uses cryptography, as a condition of the manufacture, sale, 
distribution, import or use of the commercial ICT product, to: 
(a) 
transfer or provide access to any proprietary information relating to 
cryptography, including by disclosing a particular technology or 
production process or other information, for example, a private key or 
other secret parameter, algorithm specification or other design detail, 
to that Party or a person in the territory of that Party; 
(b) 
partner or otherwise cooperate with a person in the territory of that 
Party in the development, manufacture, sale, distribution, import or use 
of the product; or 
(c) 
use or integrate a particular cryptographic algorithm. 
3. 
This Article shall not preclude a regulatory body or judicial authority 
of a Party from requiring a manufacturer or supplier of a commercial JCT 
product that uses cryptography to: 
(a) 
preserve and make available1 any information to which paragraph 2(a) 
applies for an investigation, inspection, examination, enforcement 
action or a judicial proceeding, subject to safeguards against 
unauthorised disclosure; or 
(b) 
transfer or provide access to any information to which paragraph 2(a) 
applies for the purpose of imposing or enforcing a remedy granted in 
accordance with that Party's competition law following an 
investigation, inspection, examination, enforcement action or a judicial 
proceeding. 
4. 
For greater certainty, this Article does not affect the rights and 
obligations of a Party under Article 8.61-K (Source Code). 
The Parties understand that this making available shall not be construed to negatively 
affect the status of any proprietary information relating to cryptography as a trade 
secret. 
ARTICLE 8.61-K 
Source Code 
1. 
Neither Party shall require the transfer of, or access to, source code of 
software owned by a person of the other Party, including an algorithm 
expressed in that source code, as a condition for the import, distribution, sale 
or use of such software, or of products containing such software, in its territory. 
2. 
For greater certainty, paragraph 1 does not apply to the voluntary 
transfer of, or granting of access to, source code of software by a person of the 
other Party, including an algorithm expressed in that source code: 
(a) 
on a commercial basis, such as in the context of a freely negotiated 
contract; or 
(b) 
under open source licences, such as in the context of open source 
coding. 
3. 
Nothing in this Article shall preclude a regulatory body or a judicial 
authority of a Party, or designated conformity assessment body, from requiring 
a person of the other Party to preserve and make available1 the source code of 
software, including an algorithm expressed in that source code, for an 
investigation, inspection, examination, enforcement action or judicial 
proceeding, or the monitoring of compliance with codes of conduct and other 
standards, subject to safeguards against unauthorised disclosure. 
4. 
Paragraph 1 does not apply to transfers of, or the granting of access to, 
source code of software, including an algorithm expressed in that source code, 
for the purpose of the imposition, adoption or enforcement of a remedy granted 
in accordance with that Party's law following an investigation, inspection, 
examination, enforcement action or judicial proceeding. 
The Parties understand that this making available shall not be construed to negatively 
affect the status of the source code of software, including an algorithm expressed in 
that source code, as a trade secret. 
ARTICLE 8.61-L 
Cyber Security 
1. 
The Parties have a shared vision to promote secure digital trade to 
achieve global prosperity and recognise that threats to cyber security 
undermine confidence in digital trade. Accordingly, the Parties recognise the 
importance of: 
(a) 
building the capabilities of their respective national entities responsible 
for cyber security incident response, taking into account the evolving 
nature of cyber security threats; 
(b) 
establishing or strengthening existing collaboration mechanisms to 
cooperate to anticipate, identify and mitigate malicious intrusions or 
dissemination of malicious code that affect electronic networks, and 
use those mechanisms to swiftly address cyber security incidents; 
(c) 
maintaining a dialogue on matters related to cyber security, including 
for the sharing of information and experiences for awareness and best 
practices; 
( d) 
establishing mutual recognition of a baseline security standard for 
consumer Internet of Things devices to raise overall cyber hygiene 
levels and better secure cyberspace domestically; 
(e) 
workforce development in the area of cyber security, including through 
possible initiatives relating to training and development; and 
(f) 
collaborative cyber security research and development as well as 
innovation projects among academic, research and business entities. 
2. 
Given the evolving nature of cyber security threats, the Parties 
recognise that risk-based approaches may be more effective than prescriptive, 
compliance-based approaches in addressing those threats. Accordingly, each 
Party shall encourage juridical persons within its territory to use risk-based 
approaches that rely on open and transparent industry standards to: 
(a) 
manage cyber security risks and to detect, respond to, and recover from 
cyber security events; and 
(b) 
otherwise improve the cyber security resilience of these juridical 
persons and their customers. 
ARTICLE 8.61-M 
Online Consumer Protection 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of adopting and maintaining 
transparent and effective measures that contribute to consumer trust in digital 
trade. 
2. 
To this end, each Party shall adopt or maintain measures that protect 
consumers engaged in digital trade, including laws and regulations that 
proscribe misleading, deceptive, fraudulent, and unfair commercial practices 
that cause harm or potential harm to consumers. 
3. 
The Parties recognise the importance of, and where appropriate, shall 
promote cooperation between their respective national consumer protection 
agencies or other relevant bodies on activities related to digital trade in order 
to enhance consumer welfare. 
4. 
The Parties further recognise the importance of improving awareness 
of, and providing access to, consumer redress mechanisms to protect 
consumers engaged in digital trade, including for consumers of a Party 
transacting with suppliers of the other Party. 
5. 
The Parties shall endeavour to explore the benefits of mechanisms, 
including alternative dispute resolution, to facilitate the resolution of disputes 
concerning digital trade. 
ARTICLE 8.61-N 
Unsolicited Commercial Electronic Messages 
1. 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures regarding unsolicited 
commercial electronic messages that: 
(a) 
require suppliers of unsolicited commercial electronic messages to 
facilitate the ability of recipients to prevent ongoing reception of those 
messages; or 
(b) 
require the consent, as specified in the laws and regulations of that 
Party, of recipients to receive commercial electronic messages. 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that unsolicited commercial electronic 
messages are clearly identifiable as such, clearly disclose on whose behalf they 
are made, and to the extent provided for in a Party's laws and regulations, 
contain the necessary information to enable end-users to request cessation free 
of charge and at any time. 
3. 
Each Party shall provide recourse against suppliers of unsolicited 
commercial electronic messages that do not comply with the measures adopted 
or maintained in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2. 
4. 
The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate in appropriate cases of mutual 
concern regarding the regulation of unsolicited commercial electronic 
messages. 
ARTICLE 8.61-0 
Safety and Security Online 
1. 
The Parties recognise that a safe and secure online environment 
supports the digital economy. 
2. 
The Parties recognise the importance of taking a multi-stakeholder 
approach to addressing online safety and security issues. 
3. 
The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate to advance collaborative 
solutions to global issues affecting online safety and security, including in 
international fora. 
4. 
In working together to promote a safer online environment, the Parties 
shall endeavour to maintain an open, free and secure Internet in accordance 
with their respective laws and regulations. 
ARTICLE 8.61-P 
Digital Inclusion 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of digital inclusion, that all people 
and businesses can participate in, contribute to, and benefit from the digital 
economy. To this end, the Parties recognise the importance of expanding and 
facilitating opportunities in the digital economy by removing barriers to 
participation in the digital economy, and that this may require tailored 
approaches, developed in consultation with juridical persons, individuals and 
other groups that disproportionately face such barriers. The Parties also 
recognise the importance of adopting or maintaining labour policies that 
promote decent conditions of work for workers who are engaged in or support 
the digital economy, in accordance with each Party's laws and regulations. 
2. 
The Parties shall cooperate on matters relating to digital inclusion, 
including the participation of women and other groups and individuals that 
may disproportionately face barriers to digital trade. Such cooperation may 
include: 
(a) 
sharing experiences and best practices, including the exchange of 
experts, with respect to digital inclusion; 
(b) 
identifying and addressing barriers in accessmg digital trade 
opportunities; 
( c) 
sharing methods and procedures for developing datasets and 
conducting analysis in relation to the participation in digital trade by 
women and other groups that may disproportionately face barriers to 
participation in the digital economy; 
( d) 
improving digital skills and access to online business tools; 
( e) 
promoting labour protection for workers who are engaged in or support 
digital trade; and 
(f) 
other areas as jointly agreed by the Parties. 
3. 
Cooperation activities relating to digital inclusion may be carried out 
through the coordination, as appropriate, of the Parties' respective agencies 
and stakeholders. 
4. 
The Parties also recognise the digital divide between countries, and the 
role for digital trade in promoting economic development and poverty 
reduction. To that end, the Parties shall endeavour to undertake and strengthen 
cooperation, including through existing mechanisms, to promote the 
participation in digital trade of countries who face barriers to such 
participation. This may include sharing best practices, collaborating on 
capacity building initiatives, active engagement in international fora and 
promoting countries' participation in, and contribution to, the global 
development of rules on digital trade. 
5. 
The Parties shall also participate actively at the WTO and in other 
international fora to promote initiatives for advancing digital inclusion in 
digital trade. 
ARTICLE 8.61-Q 
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 
1. 
The Parties recognise the fundamental role played by SMEs in 
economic growth and job creation, and the need to address the barriers to 
participation in the digital economy for such entities. To this end, the Parties 
shall, subject to their available resources, seek opportunities to: 
(a) 
promote close cooperation on digital trade between SMEs of the Parties 
and cooperate in promoting jobs and growth for SMEs; 
(b) 
encourage SMEs participation in platforms that help link SMEs with 
international suppliers, buyers and other potential business partners; 
and 
(c) 
exchange information and share best practices in improving digital 
skills and leveraging digital tools and technology to improve access to 
capital 
and 
credit, 
participation in government procurement 
opportunities, and other areas that could help SMEs adapt to digital 
trade. 
2. 
The Parties recognise the integral role played by the private sector in 
the Parties' implementation of this Article. 
ARTICLE 8.61-R 
Artificial Intelligence and Emerging Technologies 
1. 
The Parties recognise that artificial intelligence ("Al") and emerging 
technologies, including distributed ledger technologies, digital twins, 
immersive technologies and the Internet of Things, play important roles in 
promoting economic competitiveness and facilitating international trade and 
investment flows, and may require coordinated action across multiple trade 
policy areas to maximise their economic and social benefits. The Parties also 
recognise that the use and adoption of AI technologies are becoming 
increasingly important within a digital economy offering significant social and 
economic benefits. 
2. 
The Parties shall endeavour, where appropriate, to develop governance 
and policy frameworks that take into account relevant international principles 
and guidelines, for the ethical, trusted, safe and responsible development and 
use of AI and emerging technologies, and that will help realise the benefits of 
these technologies. To this end, in developing such frameworks, the Parties 
recognise the importance of: 
(a) 
taking into account the principles and guidelines of relevant 
international bodies; 
(b) 
utilising risk-based approaches to regulation that are based on industry-
led standards and risk management best practices; and 
( c) 
having regard to the principles of technological interoperability and 
technological neutrality. 
3. 
The Parties shall endeavour, where appropriate, to cooperate on matters 
related to AI and emerging technologies with respect to digital trade, including 
their cross-border deployment. Such cooperation may include: 
(a) 
exchanging information and sharing experiences and best practices on 
research 
and 
industry activities, 
laws, 
regulations, 
policies, 
enforcement and compliance and promoting interoperability between 
international AI governance frameworks; 
(b) 
cooperating on issues and developments relating to AI and emerging 
technologies, such as ethical use, human diversity and unintended 
biases, industry-led technical standards and algorithmic transparency; 
(c) 
promoting collaboration between each Party's governmental and non-
governmental entities across research, academia, and industry, in 
relation to: 
(i) 
research and development opportunities; 
(ii) 
joint deployment and test-bedding opportunities; 
(iii) 
opportunities for investment in and commercialisation of AI and 
emerging technologies; and 
(iv) 
responsible use and adoption of AI technologies; and 
( d) 
participating actively in international fora, such as the Global 
Partnership on Artificial Intelligence, on matters concerning the 
interaction between trade and AI and emerging technologies. 
ARTICLE 8.61-S 
Digital Identities 
1. 
Recognising that cooperation between the Parties on digital identities 
will increase regional and global connectivity, and recognising that each Party 
may take different legal and technical approaches to digital identities, the 
Parties shall pursue the development of mechanisms to promote compatibility 
and interoperability between their respective digital identity regimes. 
2. 
To this end, the Parties shall endeavour to facilitate initiatives to 
promote such compatibility and interoperability, which may include: 
(a) 
developing appropriate frameworks and common standards to foster 
technical interoperability between each Party's implementation of 
digital identities; 
(b) 
developing comparable protection of digital identities under each 
Party's respective legal frameworks, or the recognition of their legal 
effects, whether accorded autonomously or by agreement; 
(c) 
supporting the development of international frameworks on digital 
identity regimes; 
(d) 
identifying and implementing use cases for the mutual recognition of 
digital identities; and 
(e) 
exchanging knowledge and expertise on best practices relating to 
digital identity policies and regulations, technical implementation and 
security standards, and the promotion of the use of digital identities. 
ARTICLE 8.61-T 
Lawtech Cooperation 
1. 
The Parties recognise the increasing importance of Lawtech to the 
Parties' respective legal services markets, and the benefits of expanding the 
mutual understanding of their respective Lawtech markets. To that end, the 
Parties shall endeavour to cooperate, as appropriate, including by: 
(a) 
establishing a dialogue on matters related to Lawtech, which may 
include the sharing of knowledge, research, industry practice, and 
information relating to relevant legal and regulatory frameworks; 
(b) 
encouraging the sharing of knowledge between their respective 
regulators, academics, representative bodies and industry bodies; and 
(c) 
encouraging service suppliers supplying Lawtech services to explore 
new business opportunities in the other Party's territory. 
2. 
The Parties acknowledge the significant role that legal services play in 
society. In view of this, the Parties recognise the value of encouraging the 
trusted, safe and responsible use of Lawtech within the principles that underpin 
their respective legal and regulatory systems. 
ARTICLE 8.61-U 
Cooperation on Competition Policy 
1. 
Recognising that the Parties can benefit by sharing their experiences in 
enforcing competition law and in developing and implementing competition 
policies to address the challenges that arise from the digital economy, the 
Parties shall consider undertaking agreed technical cooperation activities, 
including: 
(a) 
exchanging information and expenences on the development of 
competition policies for digital markets; 
(b) 
sharing best practices on the enforcement of competition law and the 
promotion of competition in digital markets; 
( c) 
providing advice or training, including through the exchange of 
officials, to assist a Party to build necessary capacities to strengthen 
competition policy development and competition law enforcement in 
digital markets; and 
( d) 
any other form of technical cooperation agreed by the Parties. 
2. 
The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate, where practicable, on issues 
of competition law enforcement in digital markets between their respective 
authorities, including through notification, consultation and the exchange of 
information. 
3. 
Any cooperation under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be in a manner 
compatible with each Party's domestic law and important interests, and within 
their available resources. 
ARTICLE 8.61-V 
Stakeholder Engagement 
1. 
The Parties shall seek opportunities to convene a Digital Economy 
Dialogue (the "Dialogue") at times agreeable to the Parties, to promote the 
benefits of the digital economy. The Parties shall promote relevant 
collaboration efforts and initiatives between the Parties through the Dialogue. 
2. 
Where appropriate, and as may be agreed by the Parties, the Dialogue 
may include participation from other interested stakeholders, such as 
researchers, academics, and industry. The Parties may collaborate with such 
stakeholders in convening the Dialogue. 
3. 
To encourage inclusive participation by the Parties' stakeholders and 
increase the impact of outreach, the Parties may consider organising the 
Dialogue in connection with, or as a part of, existing bilateral initiatives. 
4. 
The Parties may consider relevant technical or scientific input, or other 
information arising from the Dialogue, for the purposes of implementation 
efforts and further modernisation of this Section and other relevant articles in 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 8.61-W 
Cooperation 
1. 
The Parties shall, as appropriate, cooperate and participate actively in 
international fora, including the WTO, to promote the development of 
international frameworks for digital trade. 
2. 
The Parties shall endeavour to: 
(a) 
exchange information and share experiences and best practices on 
regulatory matters relating to the digital economy, including: 
(i) 
personal information protection; 
(ii) 
data governance; 
(iii) cross-border data flows; 
(iv) online consumer protection, including means for consumer 
redress and building consumer confidence; 
(v) 
unsolicited commercial electronic messages; 
(vi) electronic contracts; 
(vii) electronic trust and electronic authentication services; 
(viii) digital identities; 
(ix) digital trade facilitation; 
(x) 
AI and other emerging technology; and 
(xi) digital government; 
(b) 
encourage industry, as appropriate, to develop methods of self-
regulation that foster the digital economy, including codes of conduct, 
model contracts, guidelines and enforcement mechanisms; and 
( c) 
exchange information and share best practices on simplified customs 
procedures applied to expedited shipments. 
ARTICLE 8.61-X 
Security, Prudential Carve-out and General Exceptions 
Further to Article 8.62 (General Exceptions), this Section is subject to the 
exceptions provided for in Article 2.14 (General Exceptions), and, for greater 
certainty, the relevant provisions of this Chapter including Article 8.50 
(Prudential Carve-out), and Chapter Sixteen (Institutional, General and Final 
Provisions). 
ANNEXB 
The Incorporated Agreement shall be amended as follows: 
Amendments to Chapter Six (Customs and Trade Facilitation) 
1. 
Article 6.13 (Single Window) shall be replaced by the following: 
"ARTICLE 6.13 
Single Window 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain single window systems enabling 
traders to submit documentation or information required for the 
exportation, importation and transit of goods through a single entry 
point to the participating authorities or agencies." 
Amendments to Chapter Eight (Services, Establishment and Electronic 
Commerce) 
2. 
The title of Chapter Eight (Services, Establishment and Electronic 
Commerce) shall be substituted with "Services, Establishment and Digital 
Trade and the Digital Economy'', and all such further reference in the 
Incorporated Agreement shall be read accordingly. 
3. 
In paragraph 1 of Article 8.1 (Objective and Scope), the words "electric 
commerce" shall be substituted with "digital trade and the digital economy". 
4. 
Article 8.38 (Submarine Cable Landing Stations) shall be replaced by 
the following: 
"ARTICLE 8.38 
Submarine Cable Landing Stations and Cable Systems 
1. 
The Parties recogmse the importance of submarine cable 
landing stations and cable systems, and the expeditious and efficient 
installation, maintenance and repair of these systems, to national, 
regional and global telecommunications connectivity. 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure access to submarine cable landing 
stations and cable systems in its territory, where a supplier is authorised 
to operate a submarine cable system as a public telecommunications 
service, on reasonable, non-discriminatory and transparent terms and 
conditions. 
3. 
Each Party may mitigate the risk of damage to submarine cable 
landing stations and cable systems in its territory that are operated, 
owned or controlled by a person of the other Party, which may include 
measures to maintain the functionality of the cable system. 
4. 
The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate on submarine cable 
landing stations and cable systems to further the mutual interests of the 
Parties in this area." 
5. 
Article 8.49 (Scope and Definitions) shall be replaced by the following: 
"ARTICLE 8.49 
Scope and Definitions 
1. 
This Sub-Section sets out the principles of the regulatory 
framework for all financial services liberalised pursuant to Sections B 
(Cross-border Supply of Services), C (Establishment) and D 
(Temporary Presence of Natural Persons for Business Purposes). 
2. 
For the purposes of this Sub-Section: 
(a) 
"electronic payments" means a payer's transfer of a monetary 
claim acceptable to a payee made through electronic means; 
(b) 
"financial service" means any service of a financial nature, 
including a service incidental or auxiliary to a service of a 
financial nature, offered by a financial service supplier of a Party; 
financial services include the following activities: 
(i) 
insurance and insurance-related services: 
( 1) 
direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
(aa) life insurance; 
(bb) non-life insurance; 
(2) 
reinsurance and retrocession; 
(3) 
insurance inter-mediation, such as brokerage and 
agency; and 
(4) 
services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, 
actuarial, risk assessment and claim settlement 
services; 
and 
(ii) 
banking and other financial services (excluding insurance): 
(1) 
the acceptance of deposits and other repayable 
funds from the public; 
(2) 
lending of all types, including consumer credit, 
mortgage credit, factoring and financing of 
commercial transaction; 
(3) 
financial leasing; 
(4) 
all payment and money transmission services, 
including credit, charge and debit cards, travellers 
cheques and bankers drafts; 
(5) 
guarantees and commitments; 
( 6) 
the trading on own account or for the account of 
customers, whether on an exchange, in an over-the-
counter market or otherwise, of the following: 
(aa) money 
market 
instruments 
(including 
cheques, bills, certificates of deposits); 
(bb) foreign exchange; 
(cc) derivative products including, but not limited 
to, futures and options; 
( dd) exchange rate and interest rate instruments, 
including products such as swaps, forward 
rate agreements; 
( ee) transferable securities; 
(ft) 
other negotiable instruments and financial 
assets, including bullion; 
(7) 
the participation in issues of securities of all kinds, 
including underwriting and placement as agent, 
whether publicly or privately, and provision of 
services related to such issues; 
(8) 
money broking; 
(9) 
asset management, such as cash or portfolio 
management, any form of collective investment 
management, pension fund management, custodial, 
depository and trust services; 
(10) settlement and clearing services for financial assets, 
including securities, derivative products, and other 
negotiable instruments; 
(11) the provision and transfer of financial information, 
and the provision of financial data processing and 
related software by suppliers of other financial 
services; and 
(12) advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary 
financial services on all the activities listed in 
subparagraphs (1) to (11 ), including credit reference 
and analysis, investment and portfolio research and 
advice, advice on acquisitions and on corporate 
restructuring and strategy; 
(c) 
"financial service computing facility" means a computer server 
or storage device for the processing or storage of information 
relevant for the conduct of the ordinary business of a financial 
service supplier; 
(d) 
"financial service supplier" means any natural or juridical person 
of a Party that is engaged or is seeking to engage in the business 
of supplying financial services within the territory of that Party 
but does not include a public entity; 
( e) 
"new financial service" means a service of a financial nature, 
including services related to existing and new products or the 
manner in which a product is delivered, that is not supplied by 
any financial service supplier in the territory of a Party but which 
is supplied in the territory of the other Party; 
(f) 
"public entity" means: 
(i) 
a government, central bank or monetary authority of a 
Party, or an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is 
principally engaged in carrying out governmental functions 
or activities for governmental purposes, other than an entity 
principally engaged in supplying financial services on 
commercial terms; or 
(ii) 
a private entity, performing functions normally performed 
by a central bank or monetary authority, when exercising 
those functions; and 
(g) 
"self-regulatory organisation" means any non-governmental 
body, including any securities or futures exchange or market, 
clearing agency, or other organisation or association, that 
exercises regulatory or supervisory authority over financial 
service suppliers by statute or delegation from central, regional 
or local governments or authorities." 
6. 
Article 8.53 (New Financial Services) shall be replaced by the 
following: 
"ARTICLE 8.53 
New Financial Services1 
1. 
Each Party shall permit a financial service supplier of the other 
Party to supply any new financial service that the first Party would 
permit its own like financial service suppliers to supply without 
additional legislative action required by the first Party. Each Party may 
determine the institutional and juridical form through which the new 
financial service may be supplied and may require authorisation for the 
supply of the service. Where a Party requires such authorisation, a 
decision shall be made within a reasonable time and the authorisation 
may only be refused for prudential reasons under Article 8.50 
(Prudential Carve-out). 
2. 
To support innovation in financial services, the Parties shall 
endeavour 
to 
collaborate, 
share 
knowledge, experiences and 
developments in financial services, in areas such as, but not limited to: 
FinTech and RegTech,2 advancing financial integrity, consumer 
protection, 
financial 
inclusion, 
financial 
stability, 
operational 
resilience, sustainability and facilitating cross-border development of 
new financial services." 
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as preventing a financial service supplier of 
a Party from applying to the other Party to request that it authorises the supply of a 
financial service that is not supplied in the territory of either Party. That application 
shall be subject to the domestic law of the Party to which the application is made and, 
for greater certainty, shall not be subject to this Article. 
For the purposes of this Article, the Parties shall treat "FinTech and Reg Tech" as 
referring to activities which involve the improved use of technology across financial 
services. 
7. 
Article 8.54 (Data Processing) shall be replaced by the following: 
"ARTICLE 8.54 
Financial Information 
1. 
Neither Party shall, subject to appropriate safeguards on 
privacy and confidentiality, prohibit or restrict a financial service 
supplier of the other Party from transferring information in electronic 
or other form, into and out of its territory, where such transfer is 
required in the ordinary course of business of such financial service 
supplier. 
2. 
Subject to paragraph 3 and to appropriate safeguards on privacy 
and confidentiality, it is prohibited for either Party to require, as a 
condition for conducting business in the Party's territory, a financial 
service supplier of the other Party to use or locate financial 
service computing facilities, in the former Party's territory. 1 
3. 
Each Party shall have the right to require a financial service 
supplier of the other Party to use or locate financial service computing 
facilities in the former Party's territory, where it is not able to ensure 
appropriate2 access to information required for the purposes of 
financial regulation and supervision, provided that the following 
conditions are met: 
(a) 
to the extent practicable, the Party provides a financial service 
supplier of the other Party with a reasonable opportunity to 
remediate any lack of access to information; and 
For greater certainty, this prohibition also applies to circumstances in which a 
financial service supplier of the other Party uses the services of an external business 
for such use, storage or processing of information. 
For greater certainty, "appropriate" access may include sufficient and timely access 
that is provided without undue delay. 
(b) 
the Party or its regulatory authorities consult the other Party or its 
regulatory authorities before imposing any requirements on a 
financial service supplier of the other Party to use or locate 
financial service computing facilities in the former Party's 
territory. 
4. 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain appropriate safeguards to 
protect privacy and personal data, including individual records and 
accounts, as long as these safeguards are not used to circumvent the 
provisions of this Agreement." 
8. 
After Article 8.54 (Data Processing), insert the following: 
"ARTICLE 8.54-A 
Electronic Payments 
1. 
Noting the rapid growth of electronic payments, in particular 
those provided by non-banks and FinTech enterprises, the 
Parties recognise, subject to maintaining resilience, the importance of 
developing an efficient, safe and secure environment for cross-
border electronic payments, including by: 
(a) 
encouraging the adoption and use of internationally accepted 
standards for electronic payments; 
(b) 
promoting interoperability and the interlinking of electronic 
payment infrastructures; and 
( c) 
encouraging 
innovation 
and 
competition 
in electronic 
payments services. 
2. 
To this end, each Party shall endeavour, subject to maintaining 
resilience, to: 
(a) 
make regulations on electronic payments, including in relation to 
regulatory approval, licensing requirements, procedures and 
technical standards, publicly available, where to do so does not 
prejudice the security or integrity of a financial service supplier; 
(b) 
for the electronic payment systems solely operated by either 
Party, publicly disclose objective and risk-based criteria for 
participation which promote fair and open access; 
( c) 
adopt, for relevant electronic payment systems, international 
standards for electronic payment messaging, payment service 
providers and services suppliers to enable greater interoperability 
between electronic payment systems; 
( d) 
encourage payment service providers to safely and securely make 
available new technologies and standards for their financial 
products and services available to third parties, and where 
possible, to facilitate greater interoperability, innovation and 
competition in electronic payments; and 
( e) 
facilitate innovation and competition and the introduction of new 
financial and electronic payment products and services in a 
timely manner, such as through adopting regulatory and industry 
sandboxes and cooperation at international fora. 
3. 
In view of paragraph 1, the Parties recognise the importance of 
upholding safety, efficiency, trust and security in electronic payment 
systems through laws and regulations, and that the adoption and 
enforcement of laws, regulations and policies should be proportionate 
to the risks undertaken by the payment service providers." 
