 
 
1 
 
FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN 
IRELAND AND THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE 
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (“the United Kingdom”) and 
the Republic of Singapore (“Singapore”) (hereinafter jointly referred to as “the Parties” 
or individually referred to as “Party”), 
Recognising that the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union (“EU”) and the 
Republic of Singapore done at Brussels on 19 October 2018 (“the EU-Singapore FTA”) 
will not apply to the United Kingdom at the end of the transitional period in which the 
rights and obligations under the EU-Singapore FTA continue to apply to the United 
Kingdom;  
Desiring that the rights and obligations between them as provided for by the EU-
Singapore FTA should continue to apply between the Parties, 
Have agreed as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 
Incorporation of the EU-Singapore FTA 
1. 
The provisions of the EU-Singapore FTA, including all Annexes, Appendices, 
Joint Declarations, Protocols, and Understandings thereto which are in effect immediately 
before they cease to apply to the United Kingdom, are incorporated into and made part of 
this Agreement and shall apply, mutatis mutandis, subject to the provisions of this 
Instrument. 
2.   
Paragraphs 3, 4 and 9 of the letter dated 21 January 2013 from Singapore to the 
EU with the caption “EU-Singapore Free Trade Agreement – Geographical Indications” 
shall be incorporated into this Agreement and shall apply, mutatis mutandis, with the 
same legal effect. 
3. 
The following provisions of the EU-Singapore FTA shall not be incorporated into 
this Agreement: 
(a) 
the definition of ‘Partnership and Cooperation Agreement’ in Article 1.3 
(Definitions of General Application); 
(b) 
paragraph 5 of Article 16.1 (Trade Committee); 
(c) 
Article 16.5 (Amendments); 
(d) 
Article 16.13 (Entry into Force);  
(e) 
paragraph 1 of Article 16.18 (Relations with Other Agreements); 
 
 
2 
 
(f) 
Article 16.19 (Future Accessions to the Union); 
(g) 
paragraph 2 of Article 16.20 (Territorial Application); and  
(h) 
Article 16.21 (Authentic Texts). 
ARTICLE 2 
Definitions and interpretation 
1.  
Throughout this Instrument: 
(a) 
“mutatis mutandis” means with the technical changes necessary to apply 
the EU-Singapore FTA as if it had been concluded between the United 
Kingdom and Singapore, taking into account the object and purpose of this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
“the Incorporated Agreement” means the EU-Singapore FTA as 
incorporated into this Agreement and modified by this Instrument; 
(c) 
“this Instrument” means the present Articles 1 to 9, the provisions of the 
Annex thereto modifying the Incorporated Agreement, including the 
Appendix to the Annex, and the Joint Declarations thereto. 
2.  
Throughout the Incorporated Agreement and this Instrument, unless the context 
clearly indicates otherwise, “this Agreement” means the entire Agreement, including 
anything incorporated by Article 1. 
3.  
Unless otherwise specified, where reference is made in this Agreement to the 
legislation of the EU, it shall be understood as a reference to that legislation of the EU in 
force and as incorporated or implemented in the law of the United Kingdom on the day 
after the United Kingdom ceases to be bound by the relevant legislation of the EU. For 
the United Kingdom, the law of the United Kingdom includes the law of the territories 
for which international relations the United Kingdom is responsible, and to which this 
Agreement extends. 
4. 
(a) 
In the event of an inconsistency between this Agreement and the Protocol 
on Ireland/Northern Ireland to the Agreement on the Withdrawal of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the 
European Atomic Energy Community, signed in London and Brussels on 
24 January 2020, this Agreement shall not prevent a Party from taking a particular 
measure not consistent with the obligations under this Agreement and relating to 
the inconsistency between this Agreement and that Protocol, provided that such a 
measure is not applied in a manner that would constitute a means of arbitrary or 
unjustified discrimination against the other Party or a disguised restriction on 
trade. 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
(b) 
 In that event, a Party shall notify the other Party of such a measure and 
promptly provide, on request of the other Party, supplementary information or 
clarification thereon, and the Parties shall hold consultations, on request of either 
Party, in relation to the effects of the measure on this Agreement, and seek a 
mutually acceptable solution.  
ARTICLE 3 
Objective 
The overriding objectives of this Agreement are as set out in Article 1.2 (Objectives) of 
the Incorporated Agreement. 
ARTICLE 4 
References to the euro 
Notwithstanding Article 1, references to the euro (including “EUR” and “€”) in the 
Incorporated Agreement shall continue to be read as such in this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 5 
Territorial application 
For the avoidance of doubt in relation to Article 16.20 (Territorial Application) of the 
Incorporated Agreement, this Agreement shall apply, in respect of the United Kingdom, 
to the extent that and under the conditions which the EU-Singapore FTA applied 
(excluding the application of paragraph 2 of Article 16.20 (Territorial Application)) 
immediately before it ceased to apply to the United Kingdom, to the United Kingdom and 
the following territories for which international relations it is responsible: 
(a)  
Gibraltar; and  
(b) 
the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Continuation of time periods 
1. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of Article 2, unless this Agreement provides 
otherwise, throughout the Incorporated Agreement, a reference to a time period 
commencing on or from the entry into force of this Agreement means a time period 
commencing on or from the entry into force of the EU-Singapore FTA.1 For greater 
certainty, this means: 
(a) 
if a period in the Incorporated Agreement has not yet ended, the remainder 
of that period shall be incorporated into this Agreement; 
(b) 
if a period in the Incorporated Agreement has ended, any resulting rights 
and obligations shall continue to be applied between the Parties. 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a reference in the Incorporated Agreement to a 
period relating to a procedure or other administrative matter (including reviews, 
committee procedures and notification deadlines) shall not be affected. 
ARTICLE 7 
Further provision in relation to the Trade Committee 
1.  
The Trade Committee, which the Parties establish under paragraph 1 of 
Article 16.1 (Trade Committee) of the Incorporated Agreement, shall, in particular, 
ensure that this Agreement operates properly. 
2. 
Any decision adopted by a committee established under the EU-Singapore FTA 
and in effect immediately before the EU-Singapore FTA ceases to apply to the United 
Kingdom shall, to the extent the decision relates to the Parties to this Agreement, be 
deemed to have been adopted, mutatis mutandis, by an equivalent committee that the 
Parties establish under this Agreement. 
3.  
Nothing in paragraph 2 prevents an equivalent committee established by the 
Parties under this Agreement from making decisions which are different to, revoke or 
supersede the decisions deemed to have been adopted by it under that paragraph. 
 
 
                                                           
1  
The Parties confirm their understanding that the reference to the time period “from the entry into 
force of this Agreement” in Understanding 4 (Mutual Recognition of Authorised Economic 
Operators (AEO) Programmes) of the Incorporated Agreement means the entry into force of this 
Agreement as set out in Article 9. 
 
 
5 
 
4.  
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of Article 16.1 (Trade Committee) of the 
Incorporated Agreement, the first meeting of the Trade Committee shall occur within one 
year of the entry into force of this Agreement. The Trade Committee shall, at its first 
meeting, suspend the work of all other committees, specialised committees, working 
groups and any other bodies established under this Agreement, and review the 
institutional provisions of this Agreement so as to streamline its institutional structure. If 
the Trade Committee cannot agree on the outcome of such review within one year of its 
first meeting, and whilst the outcome remains outstanding, the work of all the other 
committees, specialised committees, working groups shall continue in accordance with 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 8 
Amendments 
1. 
 The Parties may agree, in writing, to amend this Agreement. Amendments to this 
Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the later 
of the Parties’ written notifications certifying that they have completed their respective 
applicable legal requirements and procedures, as set out in the instrument of amendment. 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the Parties may, in the Trade Committee or relevant 
committee established by the Parties under this Agreement, adopt a decision amending 
this Agreement, where provided for in the Incorporated Agreement.2 
ARTICLE 9 
Final provisions 
1. 
This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month 
following the later of the Parties’ written notifications certifying that they have completed 
their respective applicable legal requirements and procedures for the entry into force of 
this Agreement. The Parties may agree on another date, provided such date occurs after 
the completion of the exchange of notifications referred to above. 
2.  
Pending entry into force of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be provisionally 
applied on the date on which the EU-Singapore FTA ceases to apply to the United 
Kingdom, provided that the Parties have exchanged notifications signifying completion 
of such domestic procedures as are required for provisional application. Otherwise, such 
provisional application shall take effect on such date as the Parties may agree. 
3.  
During the period of such provisional application, the term “entry into force” in 
this Agreement means the date on which such provisional application takes effect. 
 
 
                                                           
2  
In paragraph 4(a) of Article 16.1 (Trade Committee) of the Incorporated Agreement, the reference 
to the procedure for amendments set out in Article 16.5 (Amendments) shall be read as a reference 
to the procedure for amendments set out in Article 8 of this Instrument.  
 
 
6 
 
4. 
A Party may terminate the provisional application of this Agreement by written 
notification to the other Party. Such termination shall take effect on the first day of the 
second month following such notification. 
5. 
The provisional application of this Agreement terminates upon the earlier of its 
entry into force in accordance with paragraph 1 or the date of effect for termination in 
accordance with paragraph 4. 
6.  
The United Kingdom shall submit notifications under this Article to the Director, 
North America and Europe Division, Singapore Ministry of Trade and Industry or its 
successor. Singapore shall submit notifications under this Article to the United 
Kingdom’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office or its successor. 
7.  
English shall be the sole authentic text of this Agreement. 
In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their respective 
Governments, have signed this Agreement. 
 
Done at                           this                day of                            2020 in English. 
 
 
 
For the Government of the Republic of 
Singapore: 
  
For the Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland:
 
 
 
7 
 
JOINT DECLARATION  
ON INVESTMENT REVIEW 
1. 
With a view to strengthening the important investment relationship between the 
United Kingdom and Singapore, the United Kingdom and Singapore shall review their 
mutual investment legal framework, the investment environment and the flow of 
investment between them with a view to updating their investment relationship with high 
standard and ambitious investment protection commitments.  
2. 
As part of such review, and in the light of recent developments in the international 
law on investment protection, the United Kingdom and Singapore shall enter into 
negotiations to deepen their mutual obligations on investment protection within two years 
of the entry into force of this Agreement and shall endeavour to conclude negotiations 
within four years of the entry into force of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
8 
 
JOINT DECLARATION  
ON FINANCIAL SERVICES 
With a view to deepening their regulatory cooperation in the financial services sector, the 
Parties shall continually consult on and discuss any obstacles that Singapore’s or the 
United Kingdom’s firms may face when conducting business in the other’s territory. To 
this end, and under the auspices of the United Kingdom-Singapore Financial Dialogue, 
the Parties agree: 
1. 
The Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”) shall consider any request that 
the United Kingdom’s HM Treasury may make for an increase in the number of wholesale 
bank (“WB”) licences awarded to applicants from any jurisdictions , where those 
applicants are not already licensed as banks overseas, in order to conduct digital 
wholesale bank (“DWB”) activities in Singapore.1 In considering any such increase, MAS 
shall take into account: (a) the need for protecting investors, depositors, policy-holders 
and persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by DWBs; (b) maintaining the safety, 
soundness, integrity and financial responsibility of DWBs; and (c) ensuring the integrity 
and stability of Singapore’s financial system. 
2. 
When conducting the review of the limits imposed on e-wallets in Singapore 
under the Payment Services Act, MAS shall take into consideration its discussions with 
HM Treasury on this issue. Singapore shall commence this review in 2021. In considering 
an increase to such limits, the review shall take into account any new norms of economic 
activity and spending behaviour, the stability of the Singapore financial system and the 
need to protect consumers from losses to their e-wallets. 
 
 
                                                           
1  
In Singapore’s bank licensing regime, DWBs are subject to the same regulatory requirements as 
WBs. There is no distinction in the type of licence awarded to DWBs vis-à-vis WBs. DWBs can 
carry out the same scope of business as WBs. Applicants that are not already licensed as banks 
overseas may become DWBs, whilst overseas banks would already come under the usual WB 
admission framework. For prudential reasons, Singapore places limits on the total number of WB 
licences granted to applicants, which are not already licensed as banks overseas, to conduct DWB 
activities in Singapore. 
 
 
9 
 
ANNEX 
 
MODIFICATIONS TO THE EU-SINGAPORE FTA 
The incorporation of the EU-Singapore FTA into this Agreement is further modified as 
follows: 
Modifications to Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties) 
1. 
Paragraphs 4 to 7 of Appendix 2-A-1 (Tariff Schedule of the Union) of Annex 2-
A of the EU-Singapore FTA shall be substituted with: 
“4.  
The Parties acknowledge that the United Kingdom may introduce and 
apply an entry price system on or after the date of entry of force of this Agreement 
in order to replicate, in whole or in part, the entry price system that the European 
Union applies to certain fruits and vegetables in accordance with the Common 
Customs Tariff provided for in Commission Regulation (EC) No 927/2012 of 
9 October 2012 (and successor acts) and Union WTO Schedule CXL. The 
modifications in paragraphs 5 to 7 of this Annex shall apply to the extent to which 
the United Kingdom applies such an entry price system. In particular, originating 
goods of Singapore included under this Annex shall be subject to the entry price 
scheme set out in this Annex in lieu of any entry price system provided for in 
United Kingdom legislation that replicates, in whole or in part, the entry price 
system specified in the European Union’s Common Customs Tariff provided for 
in Commission Regulation (EC) No 927/2012 of 9 October 2012 (and successor 
acts) and Union WTO Schedule CXL. 
5.  
If the United Kingdom applies an entry price system to originating goods 
of Singapore in accordance with United Kingdom legislation that is adopted on or 
after the entry into force of this Agreement to replicate, in whole or in part, the 
entry price scheme applied in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) 
No 927/2012 of 9 October 2012 and Union WTO Schedule CXL, the ad valorem 
customs duties on such goods shall be removed in accordance with the staging 
categories as set out in the United Kingdom’s Schedule. 
6.  
Any specific customs duties provided for in United Kingdom legislation 
that is introduced on or after the entry into force of this Agreement to replicate, in 
whole or in part, the specific customs duties provided for in Commission 
Regulation (EC) No 948/2009 of 30 September 2009, shall not be subject to the 
elimination of customs duties in accordance with the staging categories as set out 
in the United Kingdom’s Schedule. Instead, the specific customs duties may be 
applied for the following goods: 
 
7.  
The specific duty under paragraph 6 shall not exceed the lesser specific 
duty of the prevailing MFN applied rate, or the MFN applied rate of duty in effect 
on 20 November 2019.”  
 
 
11 
 
Modifications to Chapter 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures) 
2.  
In paragraph 2 of Article 5.15 (Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures) of the EU-Singapore FTA, immediately after the words “The SPS Committee 
shall meet within one year of the entry into force of this Agreement” insert “, or upon 
request of a Party and as agreed by the Parties”. 
Modifications to Annex 5-A (Competent Authorities) 
3. 
(a)  
Article 1 (Competent Authorities of the Union) of Annex 5-A of the EU-
Singapore FTA shall be substituted with: 
“Competent Authorities of the United Kingdom:  
Upon entry into force of this Agreement, the United Kingdom shall 
provide Singapore with a list of its competent authorities.” 
(b) 
Article 2 (Competent Authorities of Singapore) of Annex 5-A of the EU-
Singapore FTA shall be substituted with: 
“Competent Authorities of Singapore 
The competent authorities of Singapore are the Singapore Food Agency 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘SFA’) and the National Parks Board 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘NParks’).  
In this respect the following applies: 
(a) 
SFA is the national authority responsible for food safety from farm 
to fork. SFA adopts a science-based risk analysis and management 
approach based on international standards to evaluate and ensure food 
safety; and 
(b) 
NParks is the national authority responsible for the management of 
the national parks, nature reserves and public parks. NParks is also the lead 
agency for animal and wildlife management as well as animal and plant 
health. NParks’ functions include the management and maintenance of the 
national parks, nature reserves and public parks, the protection of animal 
welfare and animal and plant health, the management of animal 
population, the prevention of threats and risks arising from animals and 
plants to public as well as plant health and safety, the regulation of trade 
in endangered animals and plants, and the regulation and promotion of the 
veterinary industry.” 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Modifications to Chapter 8 (Services, Establishment and Electronic Commerce) 
4. 
The second footnote1 to paragraph (c) of Article 8.2 (Definitions) of the EU-
Singapore FTA shall not be incorporated. 
Modifications to Appendix 8-A-1 (Union’s Schedule of Specific Commitments in 
Conformity with Article 8.7 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) (Cross-Border 
Supply of Services)) 
5. 
In Appendix 8-A-1 of the EU-Singapore FTA:  
(a) 
In the table, for subsector 1.E(b) (Relating to Aircraft), in the second 
column, the words “or elsewhere in the Union” shall not be incorporated.  
(b) 
In the table, for subsector 11.B (Internal Waterways Transport), in the 
second column, the words “(incl. agreements following the Rhine-Main 
Danube link)” and “Subject to regulations implementing the Mannheim 
Convention on Rhine Shipping.” shall not be incorporated.  
(c) 
In the table, for subsector 12.B (Services auxiliary to internal waterways 
transport), in the second column, the words “(incl. agreements following 
the Rhine-Main Danube link)” and the words “Subject to regulations 
implementing the Mannheim Convention on Rhine Shipping.” shall not be 
incorporated. 
Modifications to Appendix 8-A-2 (Union’s Schedule of Specific Commitments in 
Conformity with Article 8.12 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) 
(Establishment)) 
6. 
In Appendix 8-A-2 of the EU-Singapore FTA:  
 
 
                                                           
1  
This footnote states: “The Union understands that the concept of "effective and continuous link" 
with the economy of a Member State of the Union enshrined in Article 54 of the Treaty on the 
Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "TFEU") is equivalent to the concept 
of "substantive business operations". Accordingly, for a juridical person set up in accordance with 
the laws of Singapore and having only its registered office or central administration in the territory 
of Singapore, the Union shall only extend the benefits of this Agreement if that juridical person 
possesses an effective and continuous economic link with the economy of Singapore.” 
 
 
13 
 
(a) 
In the table, for ALL SECTORS, under the heading “Types of 
Establishment”, in the second column, the footnote2 immediately at the 
end of the first paragraph ending in “or agencies established in the Member 
States of the Union by Singaporean companies” shall not be incorporated.  
(b) 
In the table, for subsector 6.E(b) (Relating to Aircraft), in the second 
column, the words “or elsewhere in the Union” shall not be incorporated.  
(c) 
In the table, for subsectors 7.B(a) (All services consisting of the 
transmission and reception of signals by any electromagnetic means, 
excluding broadcasting), in the second column, the footnote3 immediately 
after the word “None” shall not be incorporated.  
(d) 
In the table, for subsector 16.B (Internal Waterways Transport), in the 
second column, the words “(incl. agreements following the Rhine-Main 
Danube link)” and the words “Subject to regulations implementing the 
Mannheim Convention on Rhine Shipping.” shall not be incorporated.  
(e) 
In the table, for subsector 17.B (Services auxiliary to internal waterways 
transport), in the second column, the words “(incl. agreements following 
the Rhine-Main Danube link)” and the words “Subject to regulations 
implementing the Mannheim Convention on Rhine Shipping.” shall not be 
incorporated. 
 
 
                                                           
2  
This footnote states: “In accordance with Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 
European Union, these subsidiaries are considered as juridical persons of the Union. To the extent 
that they have a continuous and effective link with the economy of the Union, they are 
beneficiaries of the Union's internal market, which includes, inter alia, the freedom to establish 
and to provide services in all Member States of the Union.” 
3  
This footnote states: “For clarification purposes, some Member States of the Union maintain 
public participation in certain telecommunication operators. Those Member States reserve their 
rights to maintain such public participation in the future. This is not a market access limitation. In 
Belgium, government participation and voting rights in Belgacom are freely determined under 
legislative powers as is presently the case under the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of 
government-owned economic enterprises.” 
 
 
 
14 
 
Modifications to Appendix 8-A-3 (Union’s Schedule of Specific Commitments in 
Conformity with Articles 8.14 (Key Personnel and Graduate Trainees) and 8.15 
(Business Services Sellers) (Key Personnel and Graduate Trainees and Business 
Services Sellers)) 
7. 
In the table in Appendix 8-A-3 of the EU-Singapore FTA, the reservation for ALL 
SECTORS for “Recognition”, including its footnote,4 shall not be incorporated. 
Modifications to Appendix 8-B-1 (Singapore’s Schedule of Specific Commitments) 
8. 
In Appendix 8-B-1 of the EU-Singapore FTA, in the table for HORIZONTAL 
COMMITMENTS/LIMITATIONS: 
ALL 
SECTORS 
INCLUDED 
IN 
THIS 
SCHEDULE, under the heading “Individual investors, apart from the Singapore 
Government, shall be subject to the following equity ownership limits in the enterprises, 
and/or their successor bodies, listed below:”, the words “(ii) Singapore Power, Power 
Grid, Power Supply, Power Gas: 10%” shall be substituted with:  
“(ii) SP PowerAssets, SP PowerGrid, PowerGas, Singapore LNG Corporation: 
10%” 
9. 
In Appendix 8-B-1 of the EU-Singapore FTA, in SECTOR SPECIFIC 
COMMITMENTS/LIMITATIONS, the limitations on market access and national 
treatment concerning subsector E (a) (Electricity and gas (ISIC rev 3: 401, 402)):  
(a)  
subsection (b) in its entirety shall be substituted with “(b) only a market 
support services licensee or retail electricity licensees with local presence 
may retail electricity to all household and non-household consumers in 
Singapore”; 
(b) 
subsection (c) in its entirety shall be substituted with “(c) only a 
transmission licensee shall be the owner and operator of the electricity 
transmission and distribution network in Singapore.”; and 
(c) 
subsections (d) and (e) in their entirety shall be substituted with “(d) only 
the holder of a gas transporter licence shall be allowed to transport and 
distribute manufactured and natural gas and only one gas transporter 
licence has been issued given the size of the Singapore market.” 
 
 
                                                           
4  
This footnote states: “In order for non-Union country nationals to obtain Union-wide recognition 
of their qualifications, a mutual recognition agreement, negotiated within the framework defined 
in Article 8.16 (Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications), is necessary.” 
 
 
15 
 
10.  
In Appendix 8-B-1 of the EU-Singapore FTA, in the limitations on market access 
concerning subsector 7.B(a) (Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the 
public), under the heading “Commercial banks”, immediately after the words “the local 
subsidiary must hold the Full Bank licence with the QFB privileges and is the entity which 
would be allowed to establish up to an additional 25 customer service locations (of which 
up to 10 may be established as branches).”, insert the following:  
“A United Kingdom bank (“UK Bank”) incorporated in Singapore, which has a 
Full Bank licence with QFB privileges at the time of entry into force of this 
Agreement, shall be allowed to establish 10 customer service locations in addition 
to the customer service locations that it may establish pursuant to the provisions 
described above as they applied at the time of entry into force of this Agreement. 
A UK Bank with QFB privileges which MAS has determined to be significantly 
rooted in Singapore will be granted an additional Full Bank licence if and only if 
MAS has determined that the UK Bank has a significantly higher degree of 
rootedness in Singapore.  
In determining whether the UK Bank has a significantly higher degree of 
rootedness in Singapore, MAS will consider a range of additional attributes of 
rootedness, including: 
(a) 
 the UK Bank must have fully subsidiarised its banking business 
operations in Singapore; 
(b) 
 a significant proportion of the UK Bank’s global key appointment 
holders and business heads must be based in Singapore; 
(c) 
 MAS is satisfied that the UK Bank is firmly committed to 
Singapore's financial stability and development in the long term. 
For example, MAS will consider whether –  
(i) 
the UK Bank is a significant bank in Singapore by 
headcount, with a focus on developing the talent pipeline 
in Singapore, through creating jobs or participating in 
upskilling programmes;  
(ii) 
substantial shareholdings of the UK Bank are held by 
natural persons of Singapore or Singapore juridical 
persons; and 
(iii) 
the UK Bank has demonstrated strong commitment to 
Singapore’s economy and financial markets, for instance, 
if the UK Bank is also an MAS primary dealer, leads and 
participates in key industry initiatives or associations, 
develops new business lines, and deepens existing business 
lines in Singapore. 
 
 
16 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the additional Full Bank licence must be held by a 
local subsidiary of the UK Bank with QFB privileges which MAS has determined 
to have a significantly higher degree of rootedness in Singapore.” 
11. 
In Appendix 8-B-1 of the EU-Singapore FTA, in the limitations on market access 
concerning subsector 7.B(a) (Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the 
public), under the heading “Wholesale banks”, the words from “12 EU banks holding 
wholesale bank licenses” to “be admitted directly as wholesale banks.”, shall be 
substituted with: 
“2 United Kingdom banks holding wholesale bank licences, upon application to 
MAS, will be allowed to operate up to 2 customer service locations each. 
Singapore commits to review the possibility of increasing the number of banks 
allowed to benefit from customer service locations once they are awarded to 2 
United Kingdom banks. 
Quantitative limits on the number of wholesale bank licenses will be removed for 
United Kingdom banks with or without operations in Singapore, 3 years after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement and such banks may be admitted directly 
as wholesale banks.” 
12.  
In Appendix 8-B-1 of the EU-Singapore FTA, in the additional commitments 
concerning subsector 7.B(a) (Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the 
public), under the heading “Commercial banks”, the words from “If Singapore commits 
with countries” to “only Australia, China, India, Malaysia and the United States of 
America have one or more full bank licences with QFB privileges.”, shall not be 
incorporated.  
Modifications to Annex 9-H (Means of Publication) 
13. 
Paragraph 1 of Annex 9-H of the EU-Singapore FTA shall be substituted with:  
“1.  
For the United Kingdom:  
Upon entry into force of this Agreement, the United Kingdom shall 
provide Singapore with details on the United Kingdom’s means of 
publication. This means of publication shall be directly accessible by 
electronic means and free of charge through a single point of access on the 
internet, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.” 
 
 
 
 
17 
 
Modifications to Chapter 10 (Intellectual Property) 
14.  
At the end of paragraph 3 of Article 10.17 of the EU-Singapore FTA (System of 
Protection of Geographical Functions), the following footnote shall be inserted: 
“The Trade Committee shall, in making a decision under this paragraph, rely on 
the outcome of any procedures for the protection of that geographical indication 
that were concluded under the EU-Singapore FTA prior to the entry into force of 
this Agreement.” 
Modifications to Annexes 10-A (List of Names to be Applied for Protection as 
Geographical Indications in the Territory of the Parties) and 10-B (Protected 
Geographical Indications) 
15. 
Geographical indications listed in Section A of Annexes 10-A and 10-B of the 
EU-Singapore FTA that relate to parts of the EU that are not the United Kingdom shall 
not be incorporated.  
16. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 15, the “Irish Whiskey / Uisce Beatha Eireannach / 
Irish Whisky” and “Irish Cream” geographical indications, which cover spirit drinks 
produced in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, shall be incorporated.5 
Modifications to Chapter 11 (Competition and Related Matters) 
17. 
(a)  
In paragraph 3 of Article 11.5 (Definition and Scope) of the EU-Singapore 
FTA, the words “and Annex 11-A” shall not be incorporated. 
(b)  
Paragraph 1 of Article 11.7 (Prohibited Subsidies) of the EU-Singapore 
FTA shall not be incorporated. 
(c)  
Paragraph 1 of Article 11.8 (Other Subsidies) of the EU-Singapore FTA 
shall be substituted with: 
“1. 
The Parties agree to use their best endeavours to apply their 
competition law or other laws to remedy or remove distortions of 
competition caused by other specific subsidies related to trade in goods 
and services which are not covered by Article 11.7 (Prohibited Subsidies), 
insofar as they have or could have a significant negative effect on trade 
between the Parties, and also to prevent the occurrence of such situations.” 
Modifications to Annex 11-A (Principles applicable to other subsidies) 
18. 
Annex 11-A of the EU-Singapore FTA shall not be incorporated. 
                                                           
5  
This shall not prejudice any existing rights recognised by Singapore pursuant to the EU-Singapore 
FTA with respect to “Irish Whiskey / Uisce Beatha Eireannach / Irish Whisky” and “Irish Cream”. 
 
 
18 
 
Modifications to Protocol 1 (Concerning the Definition of the Concept of 
“Originating Products” and Methods of Administrative Co-operation) 
19. 
Protocol 1 of the EU-Singapore FTA concerning the definition of the concept of 
“originating products” and methods of administrative cooperation shall be replaced by 
the text in the Appendix to this Annex. 
Modifications to Understanding 3 (Additional Customs-Related Provisions) 
20. 
Paragraph (b) of Article 12 (Other Agreements) of Understanding 3 of the EU-
Singapore FTA shall be substituted with:  
“Notwithstanding paragraph (a), the provisions of this Understanding shall take 
precedence over the provisions of any bilateral agreement on mutual assistance 
which has been concluded between the United Kingdom and Singapore prior to 
the date this Agreement is signed insofar as the provisions of the latter are 
incompatible with those of this Understanding.” 
21. 
Paragraph (c) of Article 12 (Other Agreements) of Understanding 3 of the EU-
Singapore FTA shall not be incorporated. 
Modifications to the Joint Declaration concerning Customs Unions 
22. 
The Joint Declaration concerning Customs Unions shall not be incorporated. 
 
 
19 
 
 
APPENDIX TO THE ANNEX 
 
PROTOCOL 
CONCERNING THE DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF “ORIGINATING  
PRODUCTS” AND METHODS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CO-OPERATION 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
SECTION 1 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
ARTICLE 1 Definitions 
SECTION 2 
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF "ORIGINATING PRODUCTS" 
ARTICLE 2 General requirements  
ARTICLE 3 Cumulation of Origin  
ARTICLE 4 Wholly Obtained Products 
ARTICLE 5 Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products  
ARTICLE 6 Insufficient Working or Processing  
ARTICLE 7 Unit of Qualification 
ARTICLE 8 Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  
ARTICLE 9 Sets 
ARTICLE 10 Neutral Elements  
ARTICLE 11 Accounting Segregation 
SECTION 3 
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS 
ARTICLE 12 Principle of Territoriality  
ARTICLE 13 Non Alteration  
ARTICLE 14 Exhibitions 
 
20 
 
 
SECTION 4 
DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION 
ARTICLE 15 Prohibition of Drawback of, or Exemption from, Customs Duties  
SECTION 5 
ORIGIN DECLARATION 
ARTICLE 16 General Requirements 
ARTICLE 17 Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration  
ARTICLE 18 Approved Exporter 
ARTICLE 19 Validity of Origin Declaration  
ARTICLE 20 Submission of Origin Declaration  
ARTICLE 21 Importation in Instalments  
ARTICLE 22 Exemptions from Origin Declaration  
ARTICLE 23 Supporting Documents 
ARTICLE 24 Preservation of Origin Declaration and Supporting Documents  
ARTICLE 25 Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
ARTICLE 26 Amounts Expressed in Euro 
SECTION 6 
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION 
ARTICLE 27 Cooperation between Competent Authorities  
ARTICLE 28 Verification of Origin Declarations  
ARTICLE 29 Administrative Enquiries 
ARTICLE 30 Settlement of Disputes  
ARTICLE 31 Penalties 
 
21 
 
 
SECTION 7 
CEUTA AND MELILLA 
ARTICLE 32 Application of this Protocol  
SECTION 8 
ANDORRA AND SAN MARINO 
ARTICLE 33 Andorra 
ARTICLE 34 San Marino 
SECTION 9 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
ARTICLE 35 Amendments to this Protocol 
ARTICLE 36 Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage 
List of Appendices 
ANNEX A: 
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX B 
ANNEX B: 
LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED 
OUT ON NON-ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER THAT THE 
PRODUCT MANUFACTURED CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING 
STATUS 
ANNEX B(a): ADDENDUM TO ANNEX B 
ANNEX C: 
MATERIALS 
EXCLUDED 
FROM 
CUMULATION 
UNDER 
PARAGRAPH 2 OF ARTICLE 3 
ANNEX D: 
PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 9 OF ARTICLE 3 FOR 
WHICH MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN AN ASEAN COUNTRY 
SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN A 
PARTY 
ANNEX E: 
TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION 
 
22 
 
 
Joint Declarations 
JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING THE REVISION OF THE RULES OF 
ORIGIN CONTAINED IN THE PROTOCOL  
JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING A TRILATERAL APPROACH TO RULES 
OF ORIGIN 
 
 
23 
 
 
SECTION 1  
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
1. 
For the purposes of this Protocol: 
(a) 
"ASEAN country" means a member state of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations which is not a Party to this Agreement; 
(b) 
"chapters" and "headings" and "subheadings" mean the chapters, the 
headings and sub-headings used in the nomenclature which makes up the 
Harmonized System with the changes pursuant to the Recommendation of 
26 June 2004 of the Customs Cooperation Council; 
(c) 
"classified" refers to the classification of a product or material under a 
particular chapter, heading, or sub-heading of the Harmonized System; 
(d) 
"consignment" means products which are either sent simultaneously from 
one exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document 
covering their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the 
absence of such a document, by a single invoice; 
(e) 
"customs value" means the value as determined in accordance with the 
Customs Valuation Agreement; 
(f) 
"ex-works price" means the price paid for the product ex-works to the 
manufacturer in whose undertaking the last working or processing is 
carried out, provided that the price includes the value of all the materials 
used and all other costs related to its production, minus any internal taxes 
which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported. 
Where the actual price paid does not reflect all costs related to the 
manufacturing of the product which are actually incurred in the United 
Kingdom (hereinafter referred to as “the UK”) or in Singapore, the ex-
works price means the sum of all those costs, minus any internal taxes 
which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported; 
(g) 
"fungible materials" means materials that are of the same kind and 
commercial quality, with the same technical and physical characteristics, 
and which cannot be distinguished from one another once they are 
incorporated into the finished product; 
(h) 
"goods" means both materials and products; 
 
24 
 
 
(i) 
"manufacture" means any kind of working or processing including 
assembly; 
(j) 
"material" means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., 
used in the manufacture of the product; 
(k) 
"product" means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for 
later use in another manufacturing operation; and 
(l) 
"value of materials" means the customs value at the time of importation of 
the non-originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be 
ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in the UK 
or in Singapore. 
2. 
For the purposes of subparagraph 1(f), where the last working or processing has 
been subcontracted to a manufacturer, the term "manufacturer" may refer to the enterprise 
that has employed the subcontractor. 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
SECTION 2 
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF "ORIGINATING PRODUCTS" 
ARTICLE 2 
General Requirements 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following products shall be considered as 
originating in a Party: 
(a) 
products wholly obtained in a Party within the meaning of Article 4 
(Wholly Obtained Products); and 
(b) 
products obtained in a Party incorporating materials which have not been 
wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone 
sufficient working or processing in the Party concerned within the 
meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products). 
ARTICLE 3 
Cumulation of Origin 
1. 
Notwithstanding Article 2 (General Requirements), products shall be considered 
as originating in a Party if such products are obtained there by incorporating materials 
originating in the other Party or the EU, provided that the working or processing carried 
out goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or 
Processing). It shall not be necessary that the materials of the other Party or the EU 
incorporated in such products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the 
meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products). 
2. 
Notwithstanding Article 2 (General Requirements), working or processing carried 
out in the EU shall be considered as having been carried out in the UK when the products 
obtained undergo subsequent working or processing in the UK, provided that the working 
or processing carried out in the UK goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 6 
(Insufficient Working or Processing). 
3. 
For the purposes of paragraph 1, the origin of the materials shall be determined 
according to the rules of origin of this Agreement. 
4. 
For the purposes of paragraph 1, the originating status of materials exported from 
the EU to a Party to be used in further working or processing shall be established by a 
proof of origin under which these materials could be exported directly to that Party. 
 
 
 
26 
 
 
5. 
The cumulation in respect of the EU (provided for in paragraphs 1 to 4) applies if 
the countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status and the country of 
destination have arrangements on administrative cooperation1 which ensure the correct 
implementation of this Article. 
6. 
Materials originating in an ASEAN country, which is applying with the UK a 
preferential agreement in accordance with Article XXIV of the GATT 1994, shall be 
considered as materials originating in a Party when incorporated in a product obtained in 
that Party, provided that they have undergone working or processing in that Party which 
goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). 
7. 
For the purposes of paragraph 6, the origin of the materials shall be determined 
according to the rules of origin applicable in the framework of the UK's preferential 
agreements with those countries.  
8. 
For the purposes of paragraph 6, the originating status of materials exported from 
one of the ASEAN countries to a Party to be used in further working or processing shall 
be established by a proof of origin under which these materials could be exported directly 
to the UK. 
9. 
The cumulation in respect of the ASEAN countries (provided for in paragraphs 6 
to 11) applies if: 
(a) 
the ASEAN countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status 
have undertaken to: 
(i) 
comply or ensure compliance with this Protocol; and 
(ii) 
provide the administrative cooperation necessary to ensure the 
correct implementation of this Protocol both with regard to the UK 
and among themselves; 
(b) 
the undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) have been notified to the 
UK. 
10. 
Origin declarations issued by application of paragraph 6 shall bear the following 
entry: 
"Application of Article 3(6) of the Protocol of the UK/Singapore FTA". 
 
                                                           
1  
For the avoidance of doubt, arrangements on administrative cooperation may refer to a Party’s 
preferential agreement with the EU. 
 
27 
 
 
11. 
The materials listed in Annex C to this Protocol shall be excluded from the 
cumulation provided for in paragraphs 6 to 10 where at the time of importation of the 
product: 
(a) 
the tariff preference applicable to the materials in a Party is not the same 
for all the countries involved in the cumulation; and 
(b) 
the materials concerned would benefit, through cumulation, from a tariff 
treatment more favourable than the one they would benefit from if directly 
exported to a Party. 
12. 
At the request of a Party, the Parties may, by decision in the Committee on 
Customs established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees) of this Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Committee on Customs”), modify Annex C to this 
Protocol. Any request for such a modification shall be communicated to the other Party 
at least two months before the meeting of that Committee. 
13. 
Materials originating in an ASEAN country shall be considered as materials 
originating in a Party when further processed or incorporated into one of the products 
listed in Annex D to this Protocol obtained there, provided that they have undergone 
working or processing in that Party which goes beyond the operations referred to in 
Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). 
14. 
For the purposes of paragraph 13, the origin of the materials shall be determined 
according to the preferential rules of origin applicable to the UK Generalised Scheme of 
Preferences for developing countries, as notified to the Committee on Customs 
(hereinafter referred to as "UK GSP"). If the Committee on Customs has not been 
established, that notification shall be made to the relevant customs authority of Singapore. 
15. 
For the purposes of paragraph 13, the originating status of materials exported from 
one of the ASEAN countries to a Party to be used in further working or processing shall 
be established by a proof of origin in accordance with the preferential rules applicable to 
beneficiary countries of the UK GSP. 
16. 
The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 13 to 17 may only be applied on the 
condition that: 
(a) 
the ASEAN countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status 
have undertaken to: 
(i) 
comply or ensure compliance with this Protocol; and 
(ii) 
provide the administrative cooperation necessary to ensure the 
correct implementation of this Protocol both with regard to the UK 
and between themselves; 
(b) 
the undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) have been notified to the 
UK. 
 
 
28 
 
 
17. 
Origin declarations issued by application of paragraph 13 shall bear the following 
entry: 
"Application of Article 3(13) of the Protocol of the UK/Singapore FTA". 
18. 
At the request of a Party, the Parties may, by decision in the Committee on 
Customs, modify Annex D to this Protocol. Any request for such a modification shall be 
communicated to the other Party at least two months before the meeting of the Committee. 
19. 
The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 13 to 17 shall cease to apply when 
conditions of paragraphs 6 to 11 are met. 
20. 
Not earlier than one year after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties 
shall initiate, without prejudice to the outcome, a meeting of the Committee on Customs 
to review the undertaking requirement for ASEAN cumulation for the purposes of 
paragraphs 9 to 10 and 16 to 17. Such review shall include the possibility of modification, 
by a decision in the Committee on Customs, to paragraphs 9 to 10 and 16 to 17. 
ARTICLE 4 
Wholly Obtained Products 
1. 
The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in a Party: 
(a) 
mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed; 
(b) 
plants and vegetable products grown or harvested there; 
(c) 
live animals born and raised there; 
(d) 
products from live animals raised there; 
(e) 
products from slaughtered animals born and raised there;  
(f) 
products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; 
(g) 
products of aquaculture from fish, crustaceans and molluscs that are born 
and raised there; 
(h) 
products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the 
territorial seas of a Party by their vessels; 
(i) 
products made aboard their factory ships exclusively from products 
referred to in subparagraph (h); 
(j) 
used articles collected there that are fit only for the recovery of raw 
materials; 
(k) 
waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; 
 
29 
 
 
(l) 
products extracted from marine soil or subsoil outside the territorial seas 
of a Party, provided that the Party has sole rights to work that soil or 
subsoil; and 
(m) 
goods produced there exclusively from products specified in 
subparagraphs (a) to (l). 
2. 
The terms "their vessels" and "their factory ships" in subparagraphs 1(h) and 1(i) 
shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: 
(a) 
which are registered in the UK or in Singapore;  
(b) 
which sail under the flag of the UK or of Singapore; and 
(c) 
which meet one of the following conditions: 
(i) 
they are at least fifty percent owned by nationals of the UK, a 
Member State of the EU or Singapore; or 
(ii) 
they are owned by companies: 
(1) 
which have their head office and their main place of 
business in the UK, a Member State of the EU or 
Singapore; and 
(2) 
which are at least fifty percent owned by the UK, a Member 
State of the EU or Singapore, by their public entities or 
nationals. 
ARTICLE 5 
Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products 
1. 
For the purposes of subparagraph (b) of Article 2 (General Requirements), 
products which are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or 
processed when the conditions set out in the list in Annex B or B(a) to this Protocol are 
fulfilled. 
2. 
The conditions referred to above indicate, for all products covered by this 
Agreement, the working or processing which must be carried out on non-originating 
materials used in manufacturing, and apply only in relation to such materials. It follows 
that if a product which has acquired originating status by fulfilling the conditions set out 
in the list in Annex B or B(a) to this Protocol is used in the manufacture of another 
product, the conditions applicable to the product in which it is incorporated do not apply 
to the product that acquired originating status, and no account shall be taken of the non-
originating materials which may have been used in its manufacture. 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
3. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1 and subject to paragraphs 4 and 5, non-
originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list in Annex B or 
B(a) to this Protocol, are not to be used in the manufacture of a given product may 
nevertheless be used, provided that their total value or net weight assessed for the product 
does not exceed: 
(a) 
ten percent of the weight of the product for products falling within 
Chapters 2 and 4 to 24 of the Harmonized System, other than processed 
fishery products of Chapter 16; 
(b) 
ten percent of the ex-works price of the product for other products, except 
for products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonized System, 
for which the tolerances mentioned in Notes 6 and 7 of Annex A to this 
Protocol, shall apply. 
4. 
Paragraph 3 shall not be construed to allow any of the percentages for the 
maximum content of non-originating materials as specified in the list in Annex B to this 
Protocol to be exceeded.  
5. 
Paragraphs 3 and 4 do not apply to products wholly obtained in a Party within the 
meaning of Article 4 (Wholly Obtained Products). However, without prejudice to 
Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing) and paragraph 2 of Article 7 (Unit of 
Qualification), the tolerance provided for in those paragraphs shall nevertheless apply to 
the sum of all the materials which are used in the manufacture of a product and for which 
the rule for that product laid down in the list in Annex B to this Protocol requires that 
such materials be wholly obtained. 
ARTICLE 6 
Insufficient Working or Processing 
1. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as 
insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or 
not the requirements of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) are 
satisfied: 
(a) 
preserving operations to ensure that the products remain in good condition 
during transport and storage; 
(b) 
the breaking-up and assembly of packages; 
(c) 
the washing, cleaning; removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings; 
(d) 
the ironing or pressing of textiles and textile articles;  
(e) 
simple painting and polishing operations; 
(f) 
the husking and partial or total milling of rice; the polishing and glazing 
of cereals and rice; 
 
31 
 
 
(g) 
operations to colour or flavour sugar or form sugar lumps; the partial or 
total milling of crystal sugar; 
(h) 
the peeling, stoning and shelling of fruits, nuts and vegetables; 
(i) 
sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting; 
(j) 
sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching (including the 
making-up of sets of articles); 
(k) 
simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards 
or boards and all other simple packaging operations; 
(l) 
the affixing or printing of marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing 
signs on products or their packaging; 
(m) 
the simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds; mixing 
of sugar with any material; 
(n) 
the simple addition of water to or the dilution, dehydration or denaturation 
of products;  
(o) 
the simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or 
the disassembly of products into parts; 
(p) 
a combination of two or more of the operations specified in 
subparagraphs (a) to (o); or 
(q) 
the slaughter of animals. 
2. 
For the purpose of paragraph 1, operations shall be considered simple when no 
special skills or machines, apparatus or tools that were especially produced or installed 
for those operations are required for their performance. 
3. 
All operations on a given product carried out either in the UK or in Singapore 
shall be considered together when determining whether the working or processing 
undergone by that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of 
paragraph 1. 
ARTICLE 7 
Unit of Qualification 
1. 
The unit of qualification for the application of the provisions of this Protocol shall 
be the product which is considered as the basic unit when determining classification using 
the nomenclature of the Harmonized System.  
 
32 
 
 
2. 
When a consignment consists of a number of identical products classified under 
the same heading of the Harmonized System, each individual item shall be taken into 
account when applying the provisions of this Protocol. 
3. 
Where, under General Interpretative Rule 5 of the Harmonized System, packaging 
is included with the product for classification purposes, the packaging shall be included 
for the purposes of determining origin. 
ARTICLE 8 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, 
apparatus or vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price 
thereof or which are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of 
equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question. 
ARTICLE 9 
Sets 
Sets, as defined in General Interpretative Rule 3 of the Harmonized System, shall be 
regarded as originating when all component products are originating products. When a 
set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be 
regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not 
exceed fifteen percent of the ex-works price of the set. 
ARTICLE 10 
Neutral Elements 
In order to determine whether a product originates in a Party, it shall not be necessary to 
determine the origin of the following elements which might be used in its manufacture: 
(a) 
energy and fuel; 
(b) 
plant and equipment, including goods to be used for their maintenance; 
(c) 
machines and tools and dies and moulds; spare parts and materials used in 
the maintenance of equipment and buildings; lubricants, greases, 
compounding materials and other materials used in production or used to 
operate equipment and buildings; gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, 
safety equipment and supplies; equipment, devices and supplies used for 
testing or inspecting the good; catalysts and solvents; and 
(d) 
other goods which do not enter, and which are not intended to enter, into 
the final composition of the product. 
 
33 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Accounting Segregation 
1. 
If originating and non-originating fungible materials are used in the working or 
processing of a product, the competent governmental authorities, at the written request of 
economic operators, may authorise the management of materials using the accounting 
segregation method without keeping the materials in separate stocks. 
2. 
The competent governmental authorities may make the granting of the 
authorisation referred to in paragraph 1 subject to any conditions they deem appropriate. 
3. 
The authorisation shall be granted only if it can be ensured by use of the 
accounting segregation method that, at any given time, the number of products obtained 
which could be considered as originating in the UK or in Singapore is the same as the 
number that would have been obtained by using a method of physical segregation of the 
stocks. 
4. 
If authorised, the accounting segregation method, for example, averaging, last-in, 
first-out, or first-in, first-out, shall be applied and the method used shall be recorded on 
the basis of the general accounting principles applicable in the UK or in Singapore, 
depending on where the product is manufactured. 
5. 
A manufacturer using the accounting segregation method shall make out or apply 
for origin declarations for the quantity of products which may be considered as originating 
in the exporting Party. At the request of the customs authorities or competent 
governmental authorities of the exporting Party, the beneficiary shall provide a statement 
of how the quantities have been managed. 
6. 
The competent governmental authorities shall monitor the use made of the 
authorisations referred to in paragraph 3 and may withdraw them if a manufacturer makes 
improper use of the authorisation or fails to fulfil any of the other conditions laid down 
in this Protocol. 
 
 
34 
 
 
SECTION 3  
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS 
ARTICLE 12 
Principle of Territoriality 
1. 
Except as provided for in Article 3 (Cumulation of Origin), the conditions set out 
in Section 2 relating to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without 
interruption in a Party. 
2. 
Except as provided for in Article 3 (Cumulation of Origin), if originating goods 
exported from a Party to a non-Party return, they must be considered as non-originating 
goods, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: 
(a) 
the returning goods are the same as those exported; and 
(b) 
they have not undergone any operation beyond that necessary to preserve 
them in good condition while in that non-Party or while being exported. 
ARTICLE 13 
Non Alteration 
1. 
The products declared for importation in a Party shall be the same products as 
exported from the other Party in which they are considered to originate. They shall not 
have been altered, transformed in any way or subjected to operations other than operations 
to preserve them in good condition or other than adding or affixing marks, labels, seals 
or any other documentation to ensure compliance with specific domestic requirements of 
the importing Party, prior to being declared for import. 
2. 
The storage of products or consignments may take place, provided they remain 
under customs supervision in the country(ies) of transit. 
3. 
Without prejudice to Section 5, the splitting of consignments may take place 
where carried out by the exporter or under his responsibility provided they remain under 
customs supervision in the country(ies) of transit. 
4. 
Compliance with paragraphs 1 to 3 shall be considered as satisfied unless the 
customs authorities have reason to believe the contrary; in such cases, the customs 
authorities may request the declarant to provide evidence of compliance, which may be 
given by any means, including contractual transport documents such as bills of lading or 
factual or concrete evidence based on marking or numbering of packages or any evidence 
related to the goods themselves. 
 
35 
 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Exhibitions 
1. 
Originating products, sent for exhibition in a country other than a Party and sold 
after the exhibition for importation in a Party shall benefit on importation from the 
provisions of this Agreement provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs 
authorities that: 
(a) 
an exporter has consigned these products from a Party to the country in 
which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; 
(b) 
the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a 
person in a Party; 
(c) 
the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately 
thereafter in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; and 
(d) 
the products have not been used for any purpose other than demonstration 
at the exhibition since they were consigned for exhibition. 
2. 
An origin declaration shall be issued or made out in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5 and submitted to the customs authorities of the importing Party in 
the normal manner. The name and address of the exhibition must be indicated thereon. 
Where necessary, additional documentary evidence of the conditions under which they 
have been exhibited may be required. 
3. 
Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, industrial, agricultural or crafts exhibition, 
fair or similar public show or display which is not organised for private purposes in shops 
or business premises with a view to the sale of foreign products, during which the products 
remain under customs control. 
 
 
 
36 
 
 
SECTION 4  
DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION 
ARTICLE 15 
Prohibition of Drawback of, or Exemption from, Customs Duties 
1. 
Non-originating materials used in the manufacture of products originating in the 
UK or in Singapore, for which an origin declaration has been issued or made out in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5, shall not be subject in the UK or in Singapore 
to drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties of whatever kind. 
2. 
The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall apply to any arrangement for refund, 
remission or non- payment, whether partial or complete, of customs duties or charges 
having an equivalent effect, applicable in the UK or in Singapore to materials used in the 
manufacture, where such refund, remission or non-payment applies, whether expressly or 
in effect, where the products obtained from such materials are exported, but not where 
they are retained in a Party for home use. 
3. 
The exporter of products covered by an origin declaration shall be prepared to 
submit at any time, upon request from the customs authorities, all appropriate documents 
to prove that no drawback has been obtained in respect of the non-originating materials 
used in the manufacture of the products concerned and that all customs duties or charges 
having equivalent effect applicable to such materials have actually been paid. 
4. 
The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also apply in respect of packaging within 
the meaning of paragraph 2 of Article 7 (Unit of Qualification), accessories, spare parts 
and tools within the meaning of Article 8 (Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools), and 
products in a set within the meaning of Article 9 (Sets), when such items are non-
originating. 
5. 
The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply only in respect of materials which 
are subject to this Protocol. 
 
 
37 
 
 
SECTION 5  
ORIGIN DECLARATION 
ARTICLE 16 
General Requirements 
1. 
Products originating in the UK, on importation into Singapore, and products 
originating in Singapore, on importation into the UK, shall benefit from preferential tariff 
treatment of this Agreement upon submission of a declaration (hereinafter referred to as 
"origin declaration"). The origin declaration is to be provided on an invoice or any other 
commercial document that describes the originating product in sufficient detail to enable 
its identification. 
2. 
Originating products within the meaning of this Protocol, in the cases specified in 
Article 22 (Exemptions from Origin Declaration), shall benefit from preferential tariff 
treatment of this Agreement without it being necessary to submit any of the documents 
referred to in paragraph 1. 
ARTICLE 17 
Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration 
1. 
An origin declaration as referred to in Article 16 (General Requirements) may be 
made out: 
(a) 
in the UK: 
(i) 
by an exporter within the meaning of Article 18 (Approved 
Exporter); or 
(ii) 
by an exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more 
packages containing originating products whose total value does 
not exceed 6 000 euro. 
(b) 
in Singapore by an exporter who is: 
(i) 
registered with the competent authority and who has received a 
Unique Entity Number; and 
(ii) 
complying with relevant regulatory provisions in Singapore 
pertaining to making out of origin declarations. 
2. 
An origin declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be 
considered as products originating in the UK or in Singapore and fulfil the other 
requirements of this Protocol. 
 
38 
 
 
3. 
The exporter making out an origin declaration shall be prepared at all times to 
submit, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting Party, all appropriate 
documents as referred to under Article 23 (Supporting Documents) proving the 
originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other 
requirements of this Protocol. 
4. 
An origin declaration shall be made out by the exporter by typing, stamping or 
printing on the invoice, the delivery Note or another commercial document, the 
declaration, the text of which appears in Annex E to this Protocol, in accordance with the 
domestic law of the exporting Party. If the declaration is hand-written, it shall be written 
in ink in capital characters in English. 
5. 
Origin declarations shall bear the original signature of the exporter in manuscript. 
An approved exporter as referred to in Article 18 (Approved Exporter) shall not be 
required to sign such declarations provided that he gives the customs authorities of the 
exporting Party a written undertaking that he accepts full responsibility for any origin 
declaration which identifies him as if it had been signed in manuscript by him. 
6. 
By derogation from paragraph 1, an origin declaration may exceptionally be made 
out after exportation ("retrospective statement") on condition that it is presented in the 
importing Party no later than two years, in the case of the UK, and one year, in the case 
of Singapore, after the entry of the goods into the territory. 
ARTICLE 18 
Approved Exporter 
1. 
The customs authorities of the UK may authorise any exporter who exports 
products under this Agreement to make out origin declarations irrespective of the value 
of the products concerned (hereinafter referred to as "approved exporter"). An exporter 
seeking such authorisation must offer to the satisfaction of the customs authorities all 
guarantees necessary to verify the originating status of the products as well as the 
fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 
2. 
The customs authorities of the UK may grant the status of approved exporter 
subject to any conditions which they consider appropriate. 
3. 
The customs authorities of the UK shall grant to the approved exporter a customs 
authorisation number which shall appear on the origin declaration. 
4. 
The customs authorities of the UK shall monitor the use of the authorisation by 
the approved exporter. 
5. 
The customs authorities of the UK may withdraw the authorisation at any time. 
They shall do so where the approved exporter no longer offers the guarantees referred to 
in paragraph 1, no longer fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 or otherwise 
makes an incorrect use of the authorisation. 
 
 
 
39 
 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Validity of Origin Declaration 
1. 
An origin declaration shall be valid for twelve months from the date of issue in 
the exporting Party. Preferential tariff treatment shall be claimed within such period to 
the customs authorities of the importing Party. 
2. 
Origin declarations which are submitted to the customs authorities of the 
importing Party after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be 
accepted for the purposes of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit 
these documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 
3. 
In cases of belated presentation other than those of paragraph 2, the customs 
authorities of the importing Party may accept the origin declarations where the products 
have been submitted before such final date. 
ARTICLE 20 
Submission of Origin Declaration 
For the purposes of claiming preferential tariff treatment, origin declarations shall be 
submitted to the customs authorities of the importing Party in accordance with the 
procedures applicable in that Party. 
ARTICLE 21 
Importation in Instalments 
Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs 
authorities of the importing Party, dismantled or non-assembled products within the 
meaning of General Rule 2(a) of the Harmonized System falling within Sections XVI and 
XVII or headings 7308 and 9406 of the Harmonized System are imported in instalments, 
a single origin declaration for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities 
upon importation of the first instalment. 
ARTICLE 22 
Exemptions from Origin Declaration 
1. 
Products which are sent as small packages from private persons to private persons, 
or which form part of travellers' personal luggage, shall be admitted as originating 
products without requiring the submission of an origin declaration, provided that such 
products are not imported by way of trade and have been declared as meeting the 
requirements of this Protocol, and provided that there is no doubt as to the veracity of 
such a declaration. In the case of products sent by post, this declaration can be made on 
the customs declaration CN22/CN23 or on a sheet of paper annexed to that document. 
 
40 
 
 
2. 
Imports which are occasional and consist solely of products for the personal use 
of the recipients or of travellers or their families shall not be considered as imports by 
way of trade if it is evident from the nature and quantity of the products that no 
commercial purpose is intended. 
3. 
The total value of these products shall not exceed 500 euro in the case of small 
packages or 1 200 euro in the case of products forming part of travellers' personal luggage. 
ARTICLE 23 
Supporting Documents 
The documents referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 17 (Conditions for Making Out an 
Origin Declaration), used for the purpose of proving that products covered by an origin 
declaration can be considered as products originating in the UK or in Singapore and fulfil 
the other requirements of this Protocol, may consist, inter alia, of the following: 
(a) 
direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to 
obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or 
internal book-keeping; 
(b) 
documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made 
out in a Party, where these documents are used in accordance with 
domestic law; or 
(c) 
documents proving the working or processing of materials in a Party, 
issued or made out in a Party, where these documents are used in 
accordance with domestic law. 
ARTICLE 24 
Preservation of Origin Declaration and Supporting Documents 
1. 
The exporter making out an origin declaration shall keep a copy of this origin 
declaration, as well as the documents referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 17 (Conditions 
for Making Out an Origin Declaration), for at least three years. 
2. 
The customs authorities of the importing Party shall keep the origin declarations 
submitted to them for at least three years. 
3. 
Each Party shall permit, in accordance with that Party's laws and regulations, 
exporters in its territory to maintain documentation or records in any medium, provided 
that the documentation or records can be retrieved and printed. 
 
41 
 
 
ARTICLE 25 
Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
1. 
The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the origin 
declaration and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the 
purposes of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto 
render the origin declaration null and void if it is duly established that that document 
corresponds to the products submitted. 
2. 
Obvious formal errors such as typing errors on a origin declaration should not 
cause the document to be rejected if those errors are not such as to create doubts 
concerning the correctness of the statements made in the document. 
ARTICLE 26 
Amounts Expressed in Euro 
1. 
For the application of the provisions of subparagraph 1(a)(ii) of Article 17 
(Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration) and paragraph 3 of Article 22 
(Exemptions from Origin Declaration) in cases where products are invoiced in a currency 
other than euro, amounts in the national currency of the UK equivalent to the amounts 
expressed in euro shall be fixed annually by the UK. 
2. 
A consignment shall benefit from the provisions of subparagraph 1(a)(ii) of 
Article 17 (Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration) and paragraph 3 of 
Article 22 (Exemptions from Origin Declaration) by reference to the currency in which 
the invoice is drawn up, according to the amount fixed by the Party concerned. 
3. 
The amounts to be used in any given national currency shall be the equivalent in 
that currency of the amounts expressed in euro as at the first working day of October. The 
amounts shall be communicated by 15 October and shall apply from 1 January the 
following year. The Parties shall notify each other of the relevant amounts. 
4. 
The UK may round up or down the amount resulting from the conversion into its 
national currency of an amount expressed in euro. The rounded amount may not differ 
from the amount resulting from the conversion by more than five percent. The UK may 
retain unchanged its national currency equivalent of an amount expressed in euro if, at 
the time of the annual adjustment provided for in paragraph 3, the conversion of that 
amount, prior to any rounding-off, results in an increase of less than fifteen percent in the 
national currency equivalent. The national currency equivalent may be retained 
unchanged if the conversion would result in a decrease in that equivalent value. 
5. 
The amounts expressed in euro shall be reviewed by the Parties in the Committee 
on Customs at the request of the UK or of Singapore. When carrying out this review, the 
Parties shall consider the desirability of preserving the effects of the limits concerned in 
real terms. For these purposes, the Parties may, by decision in the Committee on Customs, 
modify the amounts expressed in euro. 
 
 
42 
 
 
SECTION 6 
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION 
ARTICLE 27 
Cooperation between Competent Authorities 
1. 
The customs authorities of the Parties shall provide each other with the addresses 
of the customs authorities responsible for verifying the origin declarations. 
2. 
In order to ensure the proper application of this Protocol, the Parties shall assist 
each other, through their competent authorities, in checking the authenticity of origin 
declarations and the correctness of the information given in such documents. 
ARTICLE 28 
Verification of Origin Declarations 
1. 
Subsequent verifications of origin declarations shall be carried out at random or 
whenever the customs authorities of the importing Party have reasonable doubts as to the 
authenticity of such documents, the originating status of the products concerned or the 
fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 
2. 
For the purposes of implementing the provisions of paragraph 1, if it has been 
submitted, the customs authorities of the importing Party shall return the origin 
declaration, or a copy of that document, to the customs authorities of the exporting Party 
giving, where appropriate, the reasons for the enquiry. Any document and information 
obtained suggesting that the information given on the origin declarations is incorrect shall 
be forwarded in support of the request for verification. 
3. 
The verification shall be carried out by the customs authorities of the exporting 
Party. For this purpose, they shall have the right to request any evidence and to carry out 
any inspection of the exporter's accounts or any other check considered appropriate. 
4. 
If the customs authorities of the importing Party decide to suspend the granting of 
preferential treatment to the products concerned while awaiting the results of the 
verification, the release of the products shall be offered to the importer, subject to any 
precautionary measures judged necessary. Any suspension of preferential treatment shall 
be reinstated as soon as possible after the originating status of the products concerned or 
the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol has been ascertained by the 
customs authorities of the importing Party. 
5. 
The customs authorities requesting the verification shall be informed of the results 
of this verification as soon as possible. These results must indicate clearly whether the 
documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as 
products originating in the Parties and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 
 
43 
 
 
6. 
If, in cases of reasonable doubt, there is no reply within ten months of the date of 
the verification request or the reply does not contain sufficient information to allow the 
requesting customs authorities to determine the authenticity of the document in question 
or the real origin of the products, the requesting customs authorities, except in exceptional 
circumstances, shall refuse entitlement to the preferences. 
ARTICLE 29 
Administrative Enquiries 
1. 
Where the results of the verification procedure or any other available substantive 
information appear to indicate that the provisions of this Protocol are being contravened, 
the exporting Party, on its own initiative or at the request of the other Party, shall carry 
out appropriate enquiries or arrange for such enquiries to be carried out with due urgency 
to identify and prevent such contraventions. The results of such enquiries shall be 
communicated to the Party requesting verification. 
2. 
The Party requesting verification may be present at the enquiries, subject to 
conditions that may be laid down by the competent authority in the exporting Party. 
3. 
Where a Party has made a finding, on the basis of objective information, of a 
repeated failure2 to provide administrative cooperation under this Section, or of 
systematic and intentional fraud from the other Party, the Party concerned may 
temporarily suspend the relevant preferential treatment of the product or products 
concerned in accordance with paragraph 4. 
4. 
The application of a temporary suspension shall be subject to the following 
conditions: 
(a) 
the Party which has made a finding in accordance with paragraph 3 shall 
without undue delay notify the Trade Committee, established pursuant to 
Article 16.1 (Trade Committee) of this Agreement, of its finding together 
with the objective information and its recommended course of action to be 
taken. Upon receipt of such notification, the Trade Committee shall 
deliberate on the appropriate course of action on the basis of all relevant 
information and objective findings, with a view to reaching a solution 
acceptable to both Parties. During the period of consultations referred to 
above, the product(s) concerned shall enjoy the preferential treatment; 
 
 
                                                           
2  
For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Article 29 (Administrative Enquiries), a repeated failure to 
provide administrative cooperation shall mean, inter alia, a repeated failure to respect the 
obligations to verify the originating status of the product(s) concerned, or a repeated refusal or 
undue delay in carrying out and/or communicating the results of enquiries and/or subsequent 
verification of the proof of origin, over a continuous period of ten months. 
 
44 
 
 
(b) 
where the Parties have entered into consultations with the Trade 
Committee and have failed to agree on an acceptable solution within three 
months following the notification, the Party concerned may temporarily 
suspend the relevant preferential treatment of the product(s) concerned in 
so far as is strictly necessary to address the Party's concerns. Such 
temporary suspension shall be notified to the Trade Committee without 
undue delay; 
(c) 
temporary suspensions under this Article shall be commensurate with the 
impact on the financial interests of the Party concerned arising from the 
situation giving rise to the finding of the Party referred to paragraph 3. 
They shall not exceed a period of six months, which may be renewed, if at 
the date of expiry nothing substantive has changed with respect to the 
condition that gave rise to the initial suspension; and 
(d) 
temporary suspensions, and any renewal thereof, shall be notified 
immediately after their adoption to the Trade Committee. They shall be 
subject to periodic consultations within the Trade Committee, in particular 
with a view to their termination as soon as the conditions for their 
application no longer apply. 
ARTICLE 30 
Settlement of Disputes 
1. 
Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Article 28 
(Verification of Origin Declarations) which cannot be settled between the competent 
authorities requesting a verification and the competent authorities responsible for carrying 
out this verification, or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, 
they shall be submitted to the Committee on Customs. 
2. 
All disputes between the importer and the competent authorities of the importing 
Party shall be settled under the legislation of that Party. 
ARTICLE 31 
Penalties 
The Parties shall provide for procedures for penalties to be imposed on any person who 
draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for 
the purpose of obtaining a preferential treatment for products. 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
SECTION 7  
CEUTA AND MELILLA 
ARTICLE 32 
Application of this Protocol 
The term "European Union" does not cover Ceuta and Melilla. Products originating in 
Ceuta and Melilla are not considered to be products originating in the EU for the purposes 
of this Protocol. 
 
 
 
46 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 
ANDORRA AND SAN MARINO 
ARTICLE 33 
Andorra 
1. 
Products originating in the Principality of Andorra and falling within Chapters 25 
to 97 of the HS shall be accepted by the parties as originating in the EU within the 
meaning of this Agreement. 
2. 
This Protocol applies mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating 
status of the products referred to in paragraph 1. 
ARTICLE 34 
San Marino 
1. 
Products originating in the Republic of San Marino shall be accepted by the parties 
as originating in the EU within the meaning of this Agreement. 
2. 
This Protocol applies mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating 
status of the products referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
 
 
 
47 
 
 
SECTION 9 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
ARTICLE 35 
Amendments to this Protocol 
The Parties may, by decision in the Committee on Customs, amend the provisions of this 
Protocol. Following the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the UK and one or 
several ASEAN countries, the Parties may, by decision in the Committee on Customs, 
amend or adapt this Protocol and in particular Annex C referred to in paragraph 11 of 
Article 3 (Cumulation of Origin) to ensure coherence between the rules of origin 
applicable within the context of the preferential exchanges between ASEAN countries 
and the UK. 
ARTICLE 36 
Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage 
This Agreement may be applied to goods which comply with the provisions of this 
Protocol, and which on the date of entry into force of this Agreement are either in transit, 
in the Parties in temporary storage, in customs warehouses or in free zones, provided that 
an origin declaration that was made out retrospectively is submitted to the customs 
authorities of the importing Party within twelve months of that date, and, if requested, 
such declaration is submitted together with the documents showing that the goods have 
been transported directly in accordance with Article 13 (Non Alteration).
 
48 
 
 
ANNEX A 
 
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX B 
Note 1 – General introduction 
The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently 
worked or processed within the meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed 
Products) of the Protocol. There are four different types of rule, which vary according to 
the product: 
(a) 
through working or processing, a maximum content of non-originating 
materials is not exceeded; 
(b) 
through working or processing, the applicable 4-digit Harmonized System 
heading or 6-digit Harmonized System sub-heading for the manufactured 
products becomes different from the respective 4-digit Harmonized 
System heading or 6-digit sub-heading for the materials used; 
(c) 
a specific working and processing operation is carried out; and 
(d) 
working or processing is carried out on certain wholly-obtained materials. 
 
 
 
49 
 
 
Note 2 – The structure of the list 
2.1 
The first two columns in the list describe the product obtained. The first column 
gives the heading number or Chapter number used in the Harmonized System and 
the second column gives the description of goods used in that system for that 
heading or chapter. For each entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in 
column 3. Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an 
"ex", this signifies that the rules in column 3 apply only to the part of that heading 
as described in column 2. 
2.2 
Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1, or a 
Chapter number is given and the description of products in column 2 is therefore 
given in general terms, the adjacent rules in column 3 apply to all products which, 
under the Harmonized System, are classified in headings of the Chapter or in any 
of the headings grouped together in column 1. 
2.3 
Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a 
heading, each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered 
by the adjacent rules in column 3. 
2.4 
Where two alternative rules are set out in column 3, separated by "or", it is at the 
choice of the exporter which one to use. 
 
 
50 
 
 
Note 3 – Examples of how to apply the rules 
3.1 
Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) of the Protocol, concerning 
products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of 
other products, shall apply, regardless of whether this status has been acquired 
inside the factory where these products are used or in another factory in a Party. 
3.2 
Pursuant to Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing) of the Protocol, the 
working or processing carried out must go beyond the list of operations mentioned 
in that Article. If it does not, the goods shall not qualify for the granting of the 
benefit of preferential tariff treatment, even if the conditions set out in the list 
below are met. 
Subject to the provision referred to in the first sub-paragraph, the rules in the list 
represent the minimum amount of working or processing required, and the 
carrying-out of more working or processing also confers originating status; 
conversely, the carrying-out of less working or processing cannot confer 
originating status. 
Thus, if a rule provides that non-originating material may be used at a certain stage 
of manufacture, the use of such material at an earlier stage of manufacture is 
allowed, and the use of such material at a later stage is not. 
If a rule provides that non-originating material, at a certain level of manufacture, 
may not be used, the use of materials at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed, 
and the use of materials at a later stage is not. 
Example: when the list-rule for Chapter 19 requires that "non-originating 
materials of headings 1101 to 1108 cannot exceed 20 per cent weight", the use 
(i.e. importation) of cereals of Chapter 10 (materials at an earlier stage of 
manufacture) is not limited. 
3.3 
Without prejudice to Note 3.2, where a rule uses the expression "Manufacture 
from materials of any heading", then materials of any heading(s) (even materials 
of the same description and heading as the product) may be used, subject, 
however, to any specific limitations which may also be contained in the rule. 
The expression "Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other 
materials of heading [...]" or "Manufacture from materials of any heading, 
including other materials of the same heading as the product" means that materials 
of any heading(s) may be used, except those of the same description as the product 
as given in column 2 of the list. 
3.4 
When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more 
than one material, this means that one or more materials may be used. It does not 
require that all be used. 
 
51 
 
 
3.5 
Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a 
particular material, the rule does not prevent the use of other materials which, 
because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy this condition. 
3.6 
Where a rule in the list gives two percentages for the maximum value of non-
originating materials that can be used, those percentages may not be added 
together. In other words, the maximum value of all the non-originating materials 
used may never exceed the higher of the percentages given. Furthermore, the 
individual percentages must not be exceeded in relation to the particular materials 
to which they apply. 
 
 
 
52 
 
 
Note 4 – General provisions concerning certain agricultural goods 
4.1 
Agricultural goods which fall within Chapters 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 and heading 2401, 
and which are grown or harvested in the territory of a beneficiary country, shall 
be treated as originating in the territory of that country, even if grown from seeds, 
bulbs, rootstock, cuttings, grafts, shoots, buds, or other live parts of plants 
imported from another country. 
4.2 
In cases where the content of non-originating sugar in a given product is subject 
to limitations, the weight of sugars of headings 1701 (sucrose) and 1702 (e.g., 
fructose, glucose, lactose, maltose, isoglucose or invert sugar) used in the 
manufacture of the final product and used in the manufacture of the non-
originating products incorporated in the final product is taken into account for the 
calculation of such limitations. 
 
 
 
53 
 
 
Note 5 - Terminology used in respect of certain textile products 
5.1 
The term "natural fibres" is used in the list to refer to fibres other than artificial or 
synthetic fibres. It is restricted to the stages before spinning takes place, including 
waste, and, unless otherwise specified, includes fibres which have been carded, 
combed or otherwise processed, but not spun. 
5.2 
The term "natural fibres" includes horsehair of heading 0511, silk of headings 
5002 and 5003, as well as wool-fibres and fine or coarse animal hair of headings 
5101 to 5105, cotton fibres of headings 5201 to 5203, and other vegetable fibres 
of headings 5301 to 5305. 
5.3 
The terms "textile pulp", "chemical materials" and "paper-making materials" are 
used in the list to describe the materials which are not classified in Chapters 50 to 
63, but which can be used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or 
yarns. 
5.4 
The term "man-made staple fibres" is used in the list to refer to synthetic or 
artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of headings 5501 to 5507. 
 
 
 
54 
 
 
Note 6 - Tolerances applicable to products made of a mixture of textile materials 
6.1 
Where, for a given product in the list, reference is made to this Note, the conditions 
set out in column 3 shall not be applied to any basic textile materials used in the 
manufacture of this product and which, taken together, represent 10 % or less of 
the total weight of all the basic textile materials used. (See also Notes 6.3 and 6.4). 
6.2 
The tolerance mentioned in Note 6.1 may be applied only to mixed products 
which have been made from two or more basic textile materials. 
The following are the basic textile materials: 
- 
silk; 
- 
wool; 
- 
coarse animal hair; 
- 
fine animal hair; 
- 
horsehair; 
- 
cotton; 
- 
paper-making materials and paper; 
- 
flax; 
- 
true hemp; 
- 
jute and other textile bast fibres; 
- 
sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave; 
- 
coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres; 
- 
synthetic man-made filaments; 
- 
artificial man-made filaments; 
- 
current-conducting filaments; 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene; 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester; 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide; 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile; 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide; 
 
55 
 
 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene; 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(phenylene sulphide); 
- 
synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(vinyl chloride); 
- 
other synthetic man-made staple fibres; 
- 
artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose; 
- 
other artificial man-made staple fibres; 
- 
yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of 
polyether, whether or not gimped; 
- 
yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of 
polyester, whether or not gimped; 
- 
products of heading 5605 (metallised yarn) incorporating strip 
consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film 
whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not 
exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or 
coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film; 
- 
other products of heading 5605; 
- 
glass fibres; 
- 
metal fibres. 
Example: 
A yarn, of heading 5205, made from cotton fibres of heading 5203 and 
synthetic staple fibres of heading 5506, is a mixed yarn. Therefore, non-
originating synthetic staple fibres which do not satisfy the origin rules may 
be used, provided that their total weight does not exceed 10 % of the 
weight of the yarn. 
Example: 
A woollen fabric of heading 5112 that is made from woollen yarn of 
heading 5107 and synthetic yarn of staple fibres of heading 5509 is a 
mixed fabric. Therefore, synthetic yarn which does not satisfy the origin 
rules, or woollen yarn which does not satisfy the origin rules, or a 
combination of the two, may be used, provided that their total weight does 
not exceed 10 % of the weight of the fabric.  
 
 
 
56 
 
 
Example: 
Tufted textile fabric of heading 5802 that is made from cotton yarn of 
heading 5205 and cotton fabric of heading 5210 is only a mixed product if 
the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric made from yarns classified in two 
separate headings, or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures. 
Example: 
If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of 
heading 5205 and synthetic fabric of heading 5407, then, obviously, the 
yarns used are two separate basic textile materials and the tufted textile 
fabric is, accordingly, a mixed product. 
6.3 
In the case of products incorporating "yarn made of polyurethane segmented with 
flexible segments of polyether, whether or not gimped", this tolerance is 20 % in 
respect of this yarn. 
6.4 
In the case of products incorporating a "strip consisting of a core of aluminium 
foil or of a core of plastic film, whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of 
a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured 
adhesive between two layers of plastic film", the tolerance is 30 % in respect of 
this strip. 
 
 
 
57 
 
 
Note 7 - Other tolerances applicable to certain textile products 
7.1 
Where, in the list, reference is made to this Note, textile materials (with the 
exception of linings and interlinings) which do not satisfy the rule set out in the 
list in column 3 for the made-up product concerned may be used, provided that 
they are classified under a heading other than that of the product, and provided 
that that their value does not exceed 8 % of the ex-works price of the product. 
7.2 
Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials, which are not classified within 
Chapters 50 to 63, may be used freely in the manufacture of textile products, 
whether or not they contain textiles. 
Example: 
If a rule in the list provides that, for a particular textile item (such as trousers), 
yarn must be used, this does not prevent the use of metal items such as buttons, 
because buttons are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63. For the same reason, 
it does not prevent the use of slide- fasteners, even though slide-fasteners normally 
contain textiles. 
7.3 
Where a percentage rule applies, the value of non-originating materials which are 
not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken into account when 
calculating the value of the non-originating materials incorporated. 
 
 
 
58 
 
 
Note 8 - Definition of specific processes and simple operations carried out in 
respect of certain products of Chapter 27 
8.1 
For the purposes of headings ex 2707 and 2713, the "specific processes" are the 
following: 
(a) 
vacuum-distillation; 
(b) 
redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process; 
(c) 
cracking; 
(d) 
reforming; 
(e) 
extraction by means of selective solvents; 
(f) 
the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with 
concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation 
with alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally active 
earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; 
(g) 
polymerisation; 
(h) 
alkylation; 
(i) 
isomerisation. 
8.2 
For the purposes of headings 2710, 2711 and 2712, the "specific processes" are 
the following: 
(a) 
vacuum-distillation; 
(b) 
redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process; 
(c) 
cracking; 
(d) 
reforming; 
(e) 
extraction by means of selective solvents; 
(f) 
the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with 
concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation 
with alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally active 
earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; 
(g) 
polymerisation; 
(h) 
alkylation; 
(i) 
isomerisation; 
 
59 
 
 
(j) 
in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, desulphurisation with 
hydrogen, resulting in a reduction of at least 85 % of the sulphur content 
of the products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); 
(k) 
in respect of products of heading 2710 only, deparaffining by a process 
other than filtering; 
(l) 
in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen, 
at a pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 °C, 
with the use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurisation, when the 
hydrogen constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction. The further 
treatment, with hydrogen, of lubricating oils of heading ex 2710 (e.g. 
hydrofinishing or decolourisation), in order, more especially, to improve 
colour or stability shall not, however, be deemed to be a specific process; 
(m) 
in respect of fuel oils of heading ex 2710 only, atmospheric distillation, on 
condition that less than 30 % of these products distils, by volume, 
including losses, at 300 °C, by the ASTM D 86 method; 
(n) 
in respect of heavy oils other than gas oils and fuel oils of heading ex 2710 
only, treatment by means of a high-frequency electrical brush discharge; 
(o) 
in respect of crude products (other than petroleum jelly, ozokerite, lignite 
wax or peat wax, paraffin wax containing by weight less than 0,75 % of 
oil) of heading ex 2712 only, de-oiling by fractional crystallisation. 
8.3 
For the purposes of headings ex 2707 and 2713, simple operations, such as 
cleaning, decanting, desalting, water separation, filtering, colouring, marking, 
obtaining a sulphur content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur 
contents, or any combination of these operations or like operations, do not confer 
origin. 
 
 
60
 
 
 
 
184 
 
 
ANNEX E 
 
TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION 
The origin declaration, the text of which is given below, must be made out in accordance 
with the footnotes. However, the footnotes do not have to be reproduced. 
The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs or competent 
governmental authorisation No ………(1)) declares that, except where otherwise clearly 
indicated, these products are 
of …………… preferential origin(2). 
……………………………………………………………............................................................(3) 
(Place and date) 
 
 
 
...……………………………………………………………………..............................................(4) 
(Signature of the exporter, in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to be 
indicated in clear script) 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
When the origin declaration is made out in the UK by an approved exporter, the authorisation 
number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space. When the origin declaration is not 
made out by an approved exporter, the words in brackets shall be omitted or the space left blank. 
When the origin declaration is made out by an exporter in Singapore, the Unique Entity Number 
must be entered in this space. 
(2) 
Origin of products to be indicated.  
(3) 
These indications may be omitted if the information is contained on the document itself. 
(4) 
In cases where the exporter is not required to sign, the exemption of signature also implies the 
exemption of the name of the signatory. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
185 
 
 
JOINT DECLARATION 
CONCERNING THE REVISION OF THE RULES OF ORIGIN CONTAINED 
IN THE PROTOCOL 
1. 
The Parties agree to review the rules of origin contained in this Protocol and 
discuss the necessary amendments upon request of either Party. 
2. 
Annexes B to D to this Protocol will be adapted in accordance with the periodical 
changes to the Harmonized System. 
 
 
 
 
186 
 
 
 
JOINT DECLARATION 
CONCERNING A TRILATERAL APPROACH TO THE RULES OF ORIGIN 
1. 
In advance of the conclusion of trade negotiations between the EU and the United 
Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Singapore recognise that a trilateral approach to rules 
of origin, involving the EU, is the preferred outcome in trading arrangements among the 
United Kingdom, Singapore and the EU. This approach would replicate coverage of 
existing trade flows and allow for continued recognition of originating content from either 
of the United Kingdom or Singapore and from the EU in exports to each other as per the 
intention of the EU-Singapore FTA. In this regard, the United Kingdom and Singapore 
understand that any bilateral arrangement between them represents a first step towards 
this outcome. 
2. 
In the event that the United Kingdom and the EU reach agreement on rules of 
origin appropriate for a trilateral approach, the United Kingdom and Singapore approve 
taking the necessary steps, as a matter of urgency and of a mutually acceptable manner, 
to update this Protocol to reflect a trilateral approach to rules of origin involving the EU. 
The necessary steps will be taken in accordance with the procedures of the Committee on 
Customs contained in this Protocol.  
 
 
 
