
 
Chapter 3 
Rules of Origin 
 
Article 23 
Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
  (a)  “exporter” means a natural or juridical person 
located in an exporting Party who exports a good 
from the exporting Party; 
  
  (b)  “factory ships of the Party” or “vessels of the 
Party” respectively means factory ships or 
vessels: 
 
    (i)  which are registered in the Party; 
 
    (ii)  which sail under the flag of the Party; 
 
    (iii)  which are owned to an extent of at least 
fifty (50) per cent by nationals of one or 
more of the Parties, or by a juridical 
person with its head office in a Party, of 
which the representatives, chairman of the 
board of directors, and the majority of the 
members of such board are nationals of one 
or more of the Parties, and of which at 
least fifty (50) per cent of the equity 
interest is owned by nationals or juridical 
persons of one or more of the Parties; and 
 
    (iv)  of which at least seventy-five (75) per cent 
of the total of the master, officers and 
crew are nationals of one or more of the 
Parties; 
 
  (c)  “generally accepted accounting principles” means 
the recognised consensus or substantial 
authoritative support in a Party, with respect to 
the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, 
assets and liabilities; the disclosure of 
information; and the preparation of financial 
statements.  These standards may encompass broad 
guidelines of general application as well as 
detailed standards, practices and procedures; 
 
  (d)  “good” means any merchandise, product, article or 
material; 
 
  (e)  “identical and interchangeable materials” means 
materials being of the same kind and commercial 
quality, possessing the same technical and 
physical characteristics, and which once they are 
incorporated into the good cannot be 
distinguished from one another for origin 
purposes by virtue of any markings; 
 
  (f)  “importer” means a natural or juridical person 
who imports a good into the importing Party; 
   (g)  “materials” means any matter or substance used or 
consumed in the production of a good, physically 
incorporated into a good, or used in the 
production of another good; 
 
  (h)  “originating good” or “originating material” 
means a good or material that qualifies as 
originating in accordance with the provisions of 
this Chapter; 
 
  (i)  “packing materials and containers for 
transportation and shipment” means the goods used 
to protect a good during its transportation and 
shipment, different from those containers or 
materials used for its retail sale; 
 
  (j)  “preferential tariff treatment” means the rate of 
customs duties applicable to an originating good 
of the exporting Party in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Article 16; and 
 
  (k)  “production” means methods of obtaining a good 
including growing, mining, harvesting, raising, 
breeding, extracting, gathering, collecting, 
capturing, fishing, trapping, hunting, 
manufacturing, processing or assembling. 
 
Article 24 
Originating Goods 
 
  For the purposes of this Agreement, a good shall 
qualify as an originating good of a Party if it: 
 
  (a)  is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the 
Party as provided for in Article 25; 
 
  (b)  satisfies the requirements of Article 26 when 
using non-originating materials; or 
 
  (c)  is produced entirely in the Party exclusively 
from originating materials of one or more of the 
Parties, 
 
and meets all other applicable requirements of this 
Chapter. 
 
Article 25 
Goods Wholly Obtained or Produced 
 
  For the purposes of paragraph (a) of Article 24, the 
following shall be considered as wholly obtained or 
produced entirely in a Party: 
 
   (a)  plant and plant products grown and harvested, 
picked or gathered in the Party; 
 
    Note:  For the purposes of this paragraph, the 
term “plant” refers to all plant life, 
including fruit, flowers, vegetables, 
trees, seaweed, fungi and live plants. 
 
  (b)  live animals born and raised in the Party; 
 
    Note:  For the purposes of paragraphs (b) and 
(c), the term “animals” covers all animal 
life, including mammals, birds, fish, 
crustaceans, molluscs, reptiles, bacteria 
and viruses. 
 
  (c)  goods obtained from live animals in the Party; 
 
  (d)  goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, 
gathering or capturing conducted in the Party; 
 
  (e)  minerals and other naturally occurring 
substances, not included in paragraphs (a) 
through (d), extracted or taken from soil, 
waters, seabed or beneath the seabed of the 
Party; 
 
  (f)  goods taken from the waters, seabed or beneath 
the seabed outside the territorial waters of the 
Party, provided that the Party has the rights to 
exploit such waters, seabed and beneath the 
seabed in accordance with its laws and 
regulations and international law; 
 
    Note:  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the 
rights and obligations of the Parties 
under international law, including those 
under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. 
 
  (g)  goods of sea-fishing and other marine products 
taken by vessels of the Party from outside the 
territorial sea of any Party; 
 
  (h)  goods processed and/or made on board factory 
ships of the Party exclusively from products 
referred to in paragraph (g); 
 
  (i)  articles collected in the Party which can no 
longer perform their original purpose or be 
restored or repaired, and are fit only for 
disposal, for the recovery of parts or raw 
materials, or for recycling purposes; 
  
  (j)  scrap and waste derived from manufacturing or 
processing operations, including mining, 
agriculture, construction, refining, incineration 
and sewage treatment operations, or from 
consumption, in the Party, and fit only for 
disposal or for the recovery of raw materials; 
and 
 
  (k)  goods obtained or produced in the Party 
exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs 
(a) through (j). 
 
Article 26 
Goods Not Wholly Obtained or Produced 
 
1.  For the purposes of paragraph (b) of Article 24, a 
good shall qualify as an originating good of a Party if: 
 
  (a)  the good has a regional value content 
(hereinafter referred to as “RVC”), calculated 
using the formula set out in Article 27, of not 
less than forty (40) per cent, and the final 
process of production has been performed in the 
Party; or 
 
  (b)  all non-originating materials used in the 
production of the good have undergone in the 
Party a change in tariff classification 
(hereinafter referred to as “CTC”) at the 4-digit 
level (i.e. a change in tariff heading) of 
Harmonized System. 
 
    Note:  For the purposes of this subparagraph, 
“Harmonized System” is that on which the 
product specific rules set out in Annex 2 
are based. 
 
  Each Party shall permit the exporter of the good to 
decide whether to use subparagraph (a) or (b) when 
determining whether the good qualifies as an originating 
good of the Party. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a good subject to product 
specific rules shall qualify as an originating good if it 
satisfies the applicable product specific rules set out in 
Annex 2.  Where a product specific rule provides a choice 
of rules from a RVC-based rule of origin, a CTC-based rule 
of origin, a specific manufacturing or processing 
operation, or a combination of any of these, each Party 
shall permit the exporter of the good to decide which rule 
to use in determining whether the good qualifies as an 
originating good of the Party. 
  
3.  For the purposes of subparagraph 1(a) and the relevant 
product specific rules set out in Annex 2 which specify a 
certain RVC, it is required that the RVC of a good, 
calculated using the formula set out in Article 27, is not 
less than the percentage specified by the rule for the 
good. 
 
4.  For the purposes of subparagraph 1(b) and the relevant 
product specific rules set out in Annex 2, the rules 
requiring that the materials used have undergone CTC, or a 
specific manufacturing or processing operation, shall apply 
only to non-originating materials. 
 
5.  For the purposes of this Chapter, Annex 3 shall apply. 
 
Article 27 
Calculation of Regional Value Content 
 
1.  For the purposes of calculating the RVC of a good, the 
following formula shall be used: 
 
                             FOB - VNM 
      RVC = --------------- X 100  % 
                                 FOB 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Article: 
 
  (a)  “FOB” is, except as provided for in paragraph 3, 
the free-on-board value of a good, inclusive of 
the cost of transport from the producer to the 
port or site of final shipment abroad; 
 
  (b)  “RVC” is the RVC of a good, expressed as a 
percentage; and 
 
  (c)  “VNM” is the value of non-originating materials 
used in the production of a good. 
 
3.  FOB referred to in subparagraph 2(a) shall be the 
value: 
 
  (a)  adjusted to the first ascertainable price paid 
for a good from the buyer to the producer of the 
good, if there is free-on-board value of the 
good, but it is unknown and cannot be 
ascertained; or 
 
  (b)  determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 
8 of the Agreement on Customs Valuation, if there 
is no free-on-board value of a good. 
 
 4.  For the purposes of paragraph 1, the value of non-
originating materials used in the production of a good in a 
Party: 
 
  (a)  shall be determined in accordance with the 
Agreement on Customs Valuation and shall include 
freight, insurance, and where appropriate, 
packing and all other costs incurred in 
transporting the material to the importation port 
in the Party where the producer of the good is 
located; or 
 
  (b)  if such value is unknown and cannot be 
ascertained, shall be the first ascertainable 
price paid for the material in the Party, but may 
exclude all the costs incurred in the Party in 
transporting the material from the warehouse of 
the supplier of the material to the place where 
the producer is located such as freight, 
insurance and packing as well as any other known 
and ascertainable cost incurred in the Party. 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraph 1, the VNM of a good 
shall not include the value of non-originating materials 
used in the production of originating materials of the 
Party which are used in the production of the good. 
 
6.  For the purposes of subparagraph 3(b) or 4(a), in 
applying the Agreement on Customs Valuation to determine 
the value of a good or non-originating material, the 
Agreement on Customs Valuation shall apply, mutatis 
mutandis, to domestic transactions or to the cases where 
there is no domestic transaction of the good or non-
originating material. 
 
Article 28 
De Minimis 
 
1.  A good that does not satisfy the requirements of 
subparagraph 1(b) of Article 26 or an applicable CTC-based 
rule of origin set out in Annex 2 shall be considered as an 
originating good of a Party if: 
 
  (a)  in the case of a good classified under Chapters 
16, 19, 20, 22, 23, 28 through 49, and 64 through 
97 of the Harmonized System, the total value of 
non-originating materials used in the production 
of the good that have not undergone the required 
CTC does not exceed ten (10) per cent of the FOB;  
   (b)  in the case of a particular good classified under 
Chapters 18 and 21 of the Harmonized System, the 
total value of non-originating materials used in 
the production of the good that have not 
undergone the required CTC does not exceed ten 
(10) per cent or seven (7) per cent of the FOB, 
as specified in Annex 2; or 
 
  (c)  in the case of a good classified under Chapters 
50 through 63 of the Harmonized System, the 
weight of all non-originating materials used in 
the production of the good that have not 
undergone the required CTC does not exceed ten 
(10) per cent of the total weight of the good, 
 
provided that it meets all other applicable criteria set 
out in this Chapter for qualifying as an originating good. 
 
Note:  For the purposes of this paragraph, subparagraph 
2(a) of Article 27 shall apply. 
 
2.  The value of non-originating materials referred to in 
paragraph 1 shall, however, be included in the value of 
non-originating materials for any applicable RVC-based rule 
of origin for the good. 
 
Article 29 
Accumulation 
 
  Originating materials of a Party used in the 
production of a good in another Party shall be considered 
as originating materials of that Party where the working or 
processing of the good has taken place.  
 
Article 30 
Non-qualifying Operations 
 
  A good shall not be considered to satisfy the 
requirements of CTC or specific manufacturing or processing 
operation merely by reason of: 
 
  (a)  operations to ensure the preservation of products 
in good condition during transport and storage 
(such as drying, freezing, keeping in brine) and 
other similar operations; 
 
  (b)  changes of packaging and breaking up and assembly 
of packages; 
 
  (c)  disassembly; 
 
  (d)  placing in bottles, cases, boxes and other simple 
packaging operations; 
  
  (e)  collection of parts and components classified as 
a good pursuant to Rule 2(a) of the General Rules 
for the Interpretation of the Harmonized System; 
 
  (f)  mere making-up of sets of articles; or 
 
  (g)  any combination of operations referred to in 
subparagraphs (a) through (f). 
 
Article 31 
Direct Consignment 
 
1.  Preferential tariff treatment shall be accorded to an 
originating good satisfying the requirements of this 
Chapter and which is consigned directly from the exporting 
Party to the importing Party. 
 
2.  The following shall be considered as consigned 
directly from the exporting Party to the importing Party: 
 
  (a)  a good transported directly from the exporting 
Party to the importing Party; or 
 
  (b)  a good transported through one or more Parties, 
other than the exporting Party and the importing 
Party, or through a non-Party, provided that the 
good does not undergo operations other than 
transit or temporary storage in warehouses, 
unloading, reloading, and any other operation to 
preserve it in good condition. 
 
Article 32 
Packing Materials and Containers 
 
1.  Packing materials and containers for transportation 
and shipment of a good shall not be taken into account in 
determining the origin of any good. 
 
2.  Packing materials and containers in which a good is 
packaged for retail sale, when classified together with the 
good, shall not be taken into account in determining 
whether all of the non-originating materials used in the 
production of the good have met the applicable CTC-based 
rule of origin for the good. 
 
3.  If a good is subject to a RVC-based rule of origin, 
the value of the packing materials and containers in which 
the good is packaged for retail sale shall be taken into 
account as originating or non-originating materials, as the 
case may be, in calculating the RVC of the good. 
 Article 33 
Accessories, Spare Parts, Tools and 
Instructional or Other Information Materials 
 
1.  If a good is subject to the requirements of CTC or 
specific manufacturing or processing operation, the origin 
of accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or 
other information materials presented with the good shall 
not be taken into account in determining whether the good 
qualifies as an originating good, provided that: 
 
  (a)  the accessories, spare parts, tools and 
instructional or other information materials are 
not invoiced separately from the good; and 
 
  (b)  the quantities and value of the accessories, 
spare parts, tools and instructional or other 
information materials are customary for the good. 
 
2.  If a good is subject to a RVC-based rule of origin, 
the value of the accessories, spare parts, tools and 
instructional or other information materials shall be taken 
into account as the value of the originating or non-
originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating 
the RVC of the originating goods. 
 
Article 34 
Indirect Materials 
 
1.  Indirect materials shall be treated as originating 
materials regardless of where they are produced. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Article, the term “indirect 
materials” means goods used in the production, testing, or 
inspection of a good but not physically incorporated into 
the good, or goods used in the maintenance of buildings or 
the operation of equipment associated with the production 
of a good, including: 
 
  (a)  fuel and energy; 
 
  (b)  tools, dies and moulds; 
 
  (c)  spare parts and materials used in the maintenance 
of equipment and buildings; 
 
  (d)  lubricants, greases, compounding materials and 
other materials used in production or used to 
operate equipment and buildings; 
 
  (e)  gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety 
equipment and supplies; 
 
   (f)  equipment, devices and supplies used for testing 
or inspecting the good; 
 
  (g)  catalysts and solvents; and 
 
  (h)  any other goods that are not incorporated into 
the good but whose use in the production of the 
good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part 
of that production. 
 
Article 35 
Identical and Interchangeable Materials 
 
  The determination of whether identical and 
interchangeable materials are originating materials shall 
be made by the use of generally accepted accounting 
principles of stock control applicable, or those of 
inventory management practised, in the exporting Party. 
 
Article 36 
Operational Certification Procedures 
 
  The operational certification procedures, as set out 
in Annex 4, shall apply with respect to procedures 
regarding certificate of origin and related matters. 
 
Article 37 
Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Rules of 
Origin (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the 
Sub-Committee”) shall be established pursuant to Article 
11. 
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to: 
 
  (a)  review and make appropriate recommendations, as 
needed, to the Joint Committee on: 
 
    (i)  the implementation and operation of this 
Chapter; 
 
    (ii)  any amendments to Annexes 2 and 3, and 
Attachment to Annex 4, proposed by any 
Party; and 
 
    (iii)  the Implementing Regulations referred to in 
Rule 11 of Annex 4; 
 
  (b)  consider any other matter as the Parties may 
agree related to this Chapter;  
 
   (c)  report the findings of the Sub-Committee to the 
Joint Committee; and 
 
  (d)  carry out other functions as may be delegated by 
the Joint Committee pursuant to Article 11. 
 
3.  The Sub-Committee shall be composed of representatives 
of the Governments of the Parties, and may invite 
representatives of relevant entities other than the 
Governments of the Parties with necessary expertise 
relevant to the issues to be discussed, upon agreement of 
all the Parties. 
 
4.  The Sub-Committee shall meet at such venues and times 
as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
Chapter 4 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
Article 38 
Scope 
 
  This Chapter shall apply to all sanitary and 
phytosanitary (hereinafter referred to as “SPS”) measures 
of the Parties as defined in Annex A of the Agreement on 
the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as 
“SPS Agreement”) that may, directly or indirectly, affect 
trade between the Parties. 
 
Article 39 
Reaffirmation of Rights and Obligations 
 
  The Parties reaffirm the rights and obligations 
relating to SPS measures under the SPS Agreement among 
those Parties that are parties to the said Agreement.  
 
Article 40 
Sub-Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Measures (hereinafter referred to in this 
Article as “the Sub-Committee”) shall be established 
pursuant to Article 11. 
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to:  
 