 
 
1 
13  
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
 
ARTICLE 1  
Purpose and Definitions 
1. The purpose of this Chapter is to increase the benefits from trade and investment 
through the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.  
2. For the purposes of this Chapter:  
(a) “intellectual property rights” refers to copyright and related rights; rights in 
trade marks, geographical indications, industrial designs, patents, and layout-
designs (topographies) of integrated circuits; rights in plant varieties; and 
rights in undisclosed information; as defined and described in the WTO 
TRIPS Agreement; 
(b) “WIPO” means the World Intellectual Property Organisation; and 
(c) “WTO TRIPS Agreement” means the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related 
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2  
Adherence to International Instruments 
1. Each Party reaffirms its commitment to the provisions of the WTO TRIPS 
Agreement.  
  
2. Each Party affirms that it has ratified or acceded to the following agreements, as 
revised and amended: 
 
(a) the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works 
(1971) (the Berne Convention); 
 
(b) the Brussels Convention Relating to the Distribution of Programme-
Carrying Signals Transmitted by Satellite (1974) (the Brussels Convention); 
 
(c) the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of 
Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure (1980); 
 
(d) the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants 
(1991); 
 
 
 
2 
(e) the Nice Agreement concerning the International Classification of Goods 
and Services for the purposes of the Registration of Marks (1979); 
 
(f) the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (1967) (the 
Paris Convention);  
 
(g) the Patent Cooperation Treaty (1970); 
 
(h) the Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the 
International Registration of Marks (1989);  
 
(i) the WIPO Copyright Treaty (1996) (WCT); 
 
(j) the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (1996) (WPPT); 
 
(k) the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks (2006); and 
 
(l) the Convention Establishing the World Intellectual Property Organization 
(1967) (the WIPO Convention). 
 
3. Each Party reaffirms its rights and obligations under the international agreements 
set out in paragraph 2 of this Article. 
  
4. The Parties agree to comply with the provisions of the Geneva Act of the Hague 
Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Industrial Designs concluded 
at Geneva on 2 July 1999, subject to the enactment of laws necessary to apply those 
provisions in their respective territories. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3  
Storage of Intellectual Property in Electronic Media 
Copies of copyright material to which the right of reproduction applies shall include 
electronic copies of works, sound recordings, and cinematographic films. This is 
subject to limitations or exceptions as permitted under the laws of the Parties. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 4  
Term of Protection for Copyright 
1.  Each Party shall provide that where the term of protection of a work (including a 
photographic work), performance or sound recording is to be calculated: 
 
 
3 
(a) on the basis of the life of a natural person, the term shall be not less than 
the life of the author and 70 years after the author‟s death; and 
(b) on a basis other than the life of a natural person, the term shall be: 
(i) not less than 70 years from the end of the calendar year of the first 
authorised publication of the work, performance or sound recording; or 
(ii) failing such authorised publication within 50 years from the creation 
of the work, performance or sound recording, not less than 70 years 
from the end of the calendar year of the creation of the work, 
performance or sound recording. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5  
Effective Technological Measures 
 
1. Each Party shall provide that any person who: 
 
(a) knowingly, or having reasonable grounds to know, circumvents 
without authority any effective technological measure that controls 
access to a protected work, performance, sound recording or other 
subject matter; or 
 
(b) manufactures, imports, distributes, offers to the public, provides, or 
otherwise traffics in devices, products or components, or offers to the 
public, or provides services, that: 
 
(i) are promoted, advertised, or marketed for the purpose of 
circumvention of any effective technological measure; 
(ii) have only a limited commercially significant purpose or use 
other than to circumvent any effective technological measure; or 
(iii) are primarily designed, produced, or performed for the 
purpose of enabling or facilitating the circumvention of any 
effective technological measure, 
 
shall be liable and subject to civil remedies. Each Party shall provide 
for criminal procedures and penalties to be applied where any person is 
found to have engaged wilfully and for the purposes of commercial 
advantage in any of the above activities. Each Party may provide that 
such criminal procedures and penalties do not apply to a non-profit 
library, archive, educational institution or public non-commercial 
broadcasting entity. 
 
 
 
4 
2. “Effective technological measure” means any technology, device, or 
component that, in the normal course of its operation, controls access to a 
protected work, performance, sound recording or other protected subject 
matter, or protects any copyright. 
 
3. Each Party may provide for exceptions to the obligations in paragraph 1 of 
this Article, provided that such exceptions do not impair the adequacy of legal 
protection or the effectiveness of the legal remedies that the Party provides 
against the circumvention of effective technological measures. 
 
4. A Party may derogate from paragraph 3 of this Article with regards to 
exceptions which it may provide for lawfully authorized activities carried out 
by government employees, agents or contractors for the purpose of law 
enforcement, intelligence, national defence, essential security or similar 
government activities.   
 
 
 
ARTICLE 6  
Rights Management Information 
1.  In order to provide adequate and effective legal remedies to protect rights 
management information: 
(a) each Party shall provide that any person who without authority, and 
knowingly, or, with respect to civil remedies, having reasonable grounds to 
know, that it will induce, enable, facilitate or conceal an infringement of any 
copyright: 
(i) knowingly removes or alters any rights management information; 
(ii) distributes or imports for distribution rights management information 
knowing that the rights management information has been altered 
without authority; or 
(iii) distributes to the public, imports for distribution, broadcasts, 
communicates or makes available to the public copies of works or sound 
recordings, knowing that rights management information has been 
removed or altered without authority,  
shall be liable and subject to civil remedies.  Each Party shall provide for 
criminal procedures and penalties to be applied where any person is found to 
have engaged wilfully and for the purposes of commercial advantage in any of 
the above activities.  Each Party may provide that these criminal procedures 
and penalties do not apply to a non-profit library, archive, educational 
institution or public non-commercial broadcasting entity. 
 
 
5 
(b) “rights management information” means: 
(i) electronic information that identifies a work, performance, or sound 
recording; the author of the work, the performer of the performance, or 
the producer of the sound recording; or the owner of any right in the 
work, performance or sound recording; or 
(ii) electronic information about the terms and conditions of the use of 
the work, performance or sound recording; or 
(iii) any electronic numbers or codes that represent such information, 
when any of these items is attached to a copy of the work, performance or 
sound recording or appears in connection with the communication or making 
available of a work, performance or sound recording to the public.  Nothing in 
this paragraph obligates a Party to require the owner of any right in the work, 
performance or sound recording to attach rights management information to 
copies of the work, performance or sound recording, or to cause rights 
management information to appear in connection with a communication of the 
work, performance or sound recording to the public. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7  
Protection of Encrypted Programme-Carrying Satellite Signals 
1.  Each Party shall make it a criminal offence to: 
(a) manufacture, assemble, modify, import, export, sell, lease or 
otherwise distribute a tangible or intangible device or system, knowing 
or having reason to know that the device or system is primarily of 
assistance in decoding an encrypted programme-carrying satellite 
signal without the authorisation of the lawful distributor of such signal; 
and  
(b) wilfully receive and make use of, or further distribute, a 
programme-carrying 
signal 
that 
originated 
as 
an 
encrypted 
programme-carrying satellite signal knowing that it has been decoded 
without the authorisation of the lawful distributor of the signal. 
2.  In relation to the activities described in subparagraphs 1(a) and 1(b), each 
Party shall provide for civil remedies for any person that holds an interest in 
the encrypted programme-carrying satellite signal or its content. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
ARTICLE 8  
Presumptions for Copyright 
1.  In civil, criminal and, if applicable, administrative procedures involving 
copyright, each Party shall provide for a presumption that: 
(a) in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the natural person or 
legal entity whose name is indicated as the author, producer, performer 
or publisher of the work, performance or sound recording in the usual 
manner is the designated right holder in the work, performance or 
sound recording; and 
(b) in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that copyright subsists in 
such subject matter in accordance with its domestic law. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 9  
Civil Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights  
1.  In civil judicial proceedings concerning the acts described in Article 5 and 
Article 6, each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities shall have the 
authority to order or award at least: 
(a) provisional measures, including the seizure of devices and products 
suspected of being involved in the proscribed activity; 
(b) damages;1  
(c) payment to a prevailing right holder of court costs and fees and 
reasonable attorney‟s fees by the party engaged in the proscribed 
activity at the conclusion of the civil judicial proceeding; and  
(d) destruction of the devices and products found to be involved in the 
proscribed activity. 
2. A Party may provide that damages shall not be available against a non-
profit library, archive, education institution or public non-commercial 
broadcasting entity that sustains the burden of proving that it was not aware or 
had no reason to believe that its acts constituted a proscribed activity. 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
1 Each Party may determine what constitutes „damages‟ for the purpose of this Article. 
 
 
7 
ARTICLE 10  
Measures to Prevent the Export of Goods that Infringe Copyright or Trade Marks 
Each Party, on receipt of information or complaints, shall take measures to prevent 
the export of goods that infringe copyright or trade marks, in accordance with its laws, 
rules, regulations, directives or policies. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11  
Criminal Procedures and Remedies 
1.  Each Party shall provide for criminal procedures and penalties to be applied 
to wilful copyright piracy on a commercial scale.  Wilful copyright piracy on a 
commercial scale includes: (i) significant wilful infringements of copyright 
that have no direct or indirect motivation of financial gain; and (ii) wilful 
infringements for the purposes of commercial advantage or financial gain.   
2.  Specifically, each Party shall provide: 
(a) penalties that include imprisonment and monetary fines sufficiently 
high to deter future acts of infringement consistent with a policy of 
removing the monetary incentive of the infringer.  Also, each Party 
shall encourage its judicial authorities to impose fines at levels 
sufficient to provide a deterrent to future infringements; 
(b) that its judicial authorities have the authority to order the seizure of 
suspected pirated goods, any related materials and implements that 
have been used in the commission of the offence, any assets traceable 
to the infringing activity and documentary evidence relevant to the 
offence that fall within the scope of the order.  Items that are subject to 
seizure pursuant to such judicial order need not be individually 
identified so long as they fall within general categories specified in the 
order; 
(c) that its judicial authorities shall have the authority, except in 
exceptional cases, to order the forfeiture and destruction of all pirated 
goods and, with respect to wilful copyright piracy, order the forfeiture 
and destruction of materials and implements that have been used in the 
creation of infringing goods.  Each Party shall further provide that such 
forfeiture and destruction shall occur without compensation to the 
defendant; and 
(d) that the appropriate authorities, as determined by each Party, shall 
have the authority to initiate criminal legal action ex officio with 
 
 
8 
respect to the offences described in this Article without the need for a 
formal complaint by a private party or right holder. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 12  
Limitation on Liability of Service Providers 
1. Each Party shall provide: 
 
(a) legal incentives for service providers to cooperate with copyright 
owners in deterring the unauthorised storage and transmission of 
copyrighted materials; and 
 
(b) limitations in its law regarding the scope of remedies available against 
service providers for copyright infringements that they do not control, initiate 
or direct, and that take place through systems or networks controlled or 
operated by them or on their behalf, as set forth in this Article.2 
 
2. These limitations shall preclude monetary relief and provide reasonable 
restrictions on court-ordered relief to compel or restrain certain actions for the 
following functions and shall be confined to those functions: 
 
(a) transmitting, routing or providing connections for material without 
modification of its content, or the intermediate and transient storage of 
such material in the course thereof;  
 
(b) caching carried out through an automatic process;  
 
(c) storage at the direction of a user of material residing on a system or 
network controlled or operated by or for the service provider; and  
 
(d) referring or linking users to an online location by using information 
location tools, including hyperlinks and directories.  
 
3. These limitations shall apply only where the service provider does not 
initiate the chain of transmission of the material, and does not select the 
material or its recipients (except to the extent that a function described in 
subparagraph 2(d) in itself entails some form of selection). 
 
4. Qualification by a service provider for the limitations as to each function in 
subparagraphs 2(a) through 2(d) shall be considered separately from 
qualification for the limitations as to each other function, in accordance with 
the conditions for qualification set forth in paragraphs 5 to 8 of this Article. 
                                                 
2 Subparagraph (b) is without prejudice to the availability of defences to copyright infringement that 
are of general applicability.  
 
 
9 
 
5. With respect to functions referred to in subparagraph 2(b), the limitations 
shall be conditioned on the service provider:  
 
(a) permitting access to cached material in significant part only to users 
of its system or network who have met conditions on user access to 
that material;  
 
(b) complying with rules concerning the refreshing, reloading or other 
updating of the cached material when specified by the person making the 
material available online in accordance with a relevant industry standard data 
communications protocol for the system or network through which that person 
makes the material available that is generally accepted in the Party‟s territory; 
 
(c) not interfering with technology used at the originating site 
consistent with industry standards generally accepted in the Party‟s 
territory to obtain information about the use of the material, and not 
modifying its content in transmission to subsequent users; and  
 
(d) expeditiously removing or disabling access, on receipt of an 
effective notification of claimed infringement, to cached material that 
has been removed or access to which has been disabled at the 
originating site.  
 
6. With respect to the functions referred to in subparagraphs 2(c) and 2 (d), the 
limitations shall be conditioned on the service provider:  
 
(a) not receiving a financial benefit directly attributable to the 
infringing activity, in circumstances where it has the right and ability 
to control such activity;  
 
(b) expeditiously removing or disabling access to the material residing 
on its system or network on obtaining actual knowledge of the 
infringement or becoming aware of facts or circumstances from which 
the infringement was apparent, such as through effective notifications 
of claimed infringement in accordance with paragraph 10 of this 
Article; and  
 
(c) publicly designating a representative to receive such notifications.  
 
7. Eligibility for the limitations in this Article shall be conditioned on the 
service provider:  
 
(a) adopting and reasonably implementing a policy that provides for 
termination in appropriate circumstances of the accounts of repeat 
infringers; and  
 
 
 
10 
(b) accommodating and not interfering with standard technical measures 
accepted in the Party‟s territory that protect and identify copyrighted material, 
that are developed through an open, voluntary process by a broad consensus of 
copyright owners and service providers, that are available on reasonable and 
nondiscriminatory terms, and that do not impose substantial costs on service 
providers or substantial burdens on their systems or networks. 
 
8. Eligibility for the limitations in this Article may not be conditioned on the 
service provider monitoring its service, or affirmatively seeking facts 
indicating infringing activity, except to the extent consistent with such 
technical measures.  
 
9. If the service provider qualifies for the limitations with respect to the 
functions referred to in subparagraph 2(a), court-ordered relief to compel or 
restrain certain actions shall be limited to terminating specified accounts or to 
taking reasonable steps to block access to a specific, non-domestic online 
location. If the service provider qualifies for the limitations with respect to any 
other function in paragraph 2 of this Article, court-ordered relief to compel or 
restrain certain actions shall be limited to removing or disabling access to the 
infringing material, terminating specified accounts and other remedies that a 
court may find necessary provided that such other remedies are the least 
burdensome to the service provider among comparably effective forms of 
relief. Each Party shall provide that any such relief shall be issued with due 
regard for the relative burden to the service provider and harm to the copyright 
owner, the technical feasibility and effectiveness of the remedy and whether 
less burdensome, comparably effective enforcement methods are available. 
Except for orders ensuring the preservation of evidence, or other orders having 
no material adverse effect on the operation of the service provider‟s 
communications network, each Party shall provide that such relief shall be 
available only where the service provider has received notice of the court 
order proceedings referred to in this paragraph and an opportunity to appear 
before the judicial authority.  
 
10. For purposes of the notice and take down process for the functions referred 
to in subparagraphs 2(c) and 2(d), each Party shall establish appropriate 
procedures for effective notifications of claimed infringement, and effective 
counter-notifications by those whose material is removed or disabled through 
mistake or misidentification. Each Party shall also provide for monetary 
remedies against any person who makes a knowing material misrepresentation 
in a notification or counter-notification that causes injury to any interested 
party as a result of a service provider relying on the misrepresentation.  
 
11. If the service provider removes or disables access to material in good faith 
based on claimed or apparent infringement, each Party shall provide that the 
service provider shall be exempted from liability for any resulting claims, 
provided that, in the case of material residing on its system or network, it takes 
reasonable steps promptly to notify the person making the material available 
 
 
11 
on its system or network that it has done so and, if such person makes an 
effective counter-notification and is subject to jurisdiction in an infringement 
suit, to restore the material online unless the person giving the original 
effective notification seeks judicial relief within a reasonable time.  
 
12. Each Party shall provide for an administrative or judicial procedure 
enabling copyright owners who have given effective notification of claimed 
infringement to obtain expeditiously from a service provider information in its 
possession identifying the alleged infringer.  
 
13. For purposes of the functions referred to in subparagraph 2(a), “service 
provider” means a provider of transmission, routing or connections for digital 
online communications without modification of their content between or 
among points specified by the user of material of the user‟s choosing, and for 
purposes of the functions referred to in subparagraphs 2(b) through 2(d) 
“service provider” means a provider or operator of facilities for online services 
or network access.  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 13  
Cooperation on Enforcement 
The Parties agree to cooperate with a view to eliminating trade in goods infringing 
intellectual property rights, subject to their respective laws, rules, regulations, 
directives or policies. Such cooperation shall include:  
(a) the notification of contact points for the enforcement of intellectual 
property rights;  
(b) the exchange, between respective agencies responsible for the enforcement 
of intellectual property rights, of information concerning infringement of 
intellectual property rights;  
(c) policy dialogue on initiatives for the enforcement of intellectual property 
rights in multilateral and regional fora; and  
(d) such other activities and initiatives for the enforcement of intellectual 
property rights as may be mutually agreed between the Parties.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
ARTICLE 14  
Cooperation on Education and Exchange of Information on Protection, 
Management and Exploitation of Intellectual Property Rights 
The Parties, through their competent agencies, agree to:  
(a) exchange information and material on programmes pertaining to 
intellectual property rights education and awareness, and to commercialisation 
of intellectual property, to the extent permissible under their respective laws, 
rules, regulations and directives; and  
(b) encourage and facilitate the development of contacts and cooperation 
between their respective government agencies, educational institutions, 
organisations and other entities in the field of intellectual property rights 
protection and development, including in the education and training of patent 
agents.  
 
 
ARTICLE 15  
Settlement of Disputes relating to Domain Names and Trade Marks  
Both Parties shall continue to monitor and support, where appropriate, endeavours to 
develop international policy or guidelines governing the resolution of disputes relating 
to domain names and trade marks. 
 
 
 
