 
 
 
29
 
 
05  
TECHNICAL REGULATIONS AND SANITARY AND 
PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Purposes and Definitions 
 
1. 
The purposes of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a) 
facilitate trade and investment between the Parties through 
collaborative efforts which minimise the impact of mandatory requirements 
and/or assessments of manufacturers or manufacturing processes on the goods 
traded between the Parties, in the most appropriate or cost-effective manner; 
 
(b) 
complement bilateral agreements and arrangements between the 
Parties relating to mandatory requirements; and  
 
(c) 
build on the Mutual Recognition Agreement on Conformity 
Assessment between the Government of Australia and the Government of the 
Republic of Singapore. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires or it is 
otherwise defined in a Sectoral Annex: 
(a) 
“conformity assessment” shall have the same meaning as in the Mutual 
Recognition Agreement on Conformity Assessment between the Government 
of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore; 
 
 
 (b) 
“equivalence” means the state wherein mandatory requirements 
applied in the territory of the exporting Party, though different from the 
mandatory requirements applied in the territory of the importing Party, meet 
the legitimate objective or achieve the appropriate level of sanitary or 
phytosanitary protection of the mandatory requirements applied in the territory 
of the importing Party; 
 
(c) 
“mandatory requirements” means all technical regulations and sanitary 
and phytosanitary measures as may be set out in a Party’s laws, regulations 
and administrative requirements; 
 
(d) 
“regulatory authority” means an entity of a Party that exercises a legal 
right to determine the mandatory requirements, control the import, use or 
supply of goods within its territory and/or take enforcement action to ensure 
that goods marketed within its territory comply with its mandatory 
requirements; 
 
 
 
 
30
(e) 
“sanitary or phytosanitary measure” shall have the same meaning as in 
the WTO Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures; 
 
(f) 
“Sectoral Annex” means an annex to this Chapter which specifies the 
arrangements in respect of a specific product sector; and 
 
(g) 
“technical regulation” shall have the same meaning as in the WTO 
Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
Scope and Obligations 
 
1. 
This Chapter shall apply to mandatory requirements adopted or maintained by 
the Parties to fulfil their legitimate objectives and/or achieve their appropriate level of 
sanitary or phytosanitary protection. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining, in 
accordance with its international rights and obligations: 
 
(a) 
mandatory requirements, as appropriate to its particular national 
circumstances; and 
 
(b) 
mandatory requirements necessary to ensure the quality of its imports, 
or for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health, or the 
environment, or for the prevention of deceptive practices or to fulfil other 
legitimate objectives, at the levels it considers appropriate. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall retain all authority under its laws to interpret and implement 
its mandatory requirements.  This includes the authority to take appropriate measures 
for goods that do not conform to the Party’s mandatory requirements. Such measures 
may include withdrawing goods from the market, prohibiting their placement on the 
market or restricting their free movement, initiating a product recall or prohibiting an 
import. 
 
4. 
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to particular Sectoral Annexes as 
provided therein. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Origin 
 
This Chapter applies to all goods and/or assessments of manufacturers or 
manufacturing processes of goods traded between the Parties, regardless of the origin 
of those goods, unless otherwise specified in a Sectoral Annex, or unless otherwise 
specified by any mandatory requirement of a Party. 
 
 
 
 
31
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Harmonisation 
 
The Parties shall, where appropriate, endeavour to work towards 
harmonisation of their respective mandatory requirements taking into account relevant 
international standards, recommendations and guidelines, in accordance with their 
international rights and obligations. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
Equivalence of Mandatory Requirements 
 
1. 
The Parties shall give favourable consideration to accepting the equivalence of 
each other’s mandatory requirements consistent with the purpose of this Chapter. 
 
2. 
A Party shall accept the equivalence of the mandatory requirements, and/or the 
results of conformity assessment and approval procedures, of the other Party in 
accordance with the respective Sectoral Annex. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of Article 5.2, a Sectoral Annex shall provide the following 
details: 
 
(a) 
the procedures for determining and implementing the equivalence of 
each Party’s mandatory requirements; and/or 
 
(b) 
the procedures for accepting the results of the conformity assessment 
and approval procedures; and 
 
(c) 
the regulatory authorities designated by each Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
Cooperative Activities on Sanitary and Phytosanitary/Quarantine Matters 
 
1. 
The Parties shall endeavour to develop a work programme and mechanisms 
for co-operative activities in the areas of technical assistance and capacity building to 
address plant, animal and public health and food safety issues of mutual interest.  
 
2. 
The Parties shall, where appropriate, endeavour to develop further the use and 
product coverage of electronic means of data transfer, including electronic health 
certificates.  
 
 
 
 
 
32
ARTICLE 7 
 
Conformity Assessment 
 
1. 
The Parties, through the Joint Committee established by Article 11 of the 
Mutual Recognition Agreement on Conformity Assessment between the Government 
of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore, shall consider 
arrangements additional to those provided for in this Chapter to ensure that 
differences between the structure, organization and operation of conformity 
assessment procedures in their respective territories do not unnecessarily impede trade 
between them. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of conformity assessment, each Party shall, on the request of 
the other Party, and in accordance with relevant international obligations and its 
respective applicable domestic laws, rules and regulations, take reasonable steps to 
facilitate access in its territory for inspection, testing and other relevant procedures.  
 
3. 
The Parties affirm their intention to adopt and apply, with such modifications 
as may be necessary, the principles set out in the APEC Information Notes on Good 
Regulatory Practice for Technical Regulation with respect to conformity assessment 
and approval procedures in meeting their international obligations under the WTO 
Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
Exchange of Information, and Consultation 
 
1. 
The Parties shall provide notification of any changes to their mandatory 
requirements in accordance with their WTO obligations or in specific cases as 
appropriate. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall, within the context of this Chapter, establish contact points to 
expeditiously: 
 
(a) 
broaden the exchange of information; and 
 
(b) 
give favourable consideration to any written request for consultation. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall, upon a request in writing of either Party and where 
appropriate, jointly: 
 
(a) 
identify and develop new Sectoral Annexes for priority sectors for this 
Chapter; 
 
(b) 
agree to amend or increase the scope of existing Sectoral Annexes with 
a view to minimising the impact of mandatory requirements on goods traded 
between the Parties; and 
 
 
 
 
33
(c) 
agree on a work programme for the implementation of this Article, 
consistent with the provisions of this Chapter, and implement that work 
programme expeditiously. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
Confidentiality 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require either Party to furnish or 
allow access to information the disclosure of which it considers would: 
 
(a) 
be contrary to its essential security interests; 
 
(b) 
be contrary to the public interest as determined by its domestic laws, 
rules and regulations; 
 
(c) 
be contrary to any of its domestic laws, rules and regulations, including 
but not limited to those protecting personal privacy or the financial affairs and 
accounts of individual customers of financial institutions; 
 
(d) 
impede law enforcement; or 
 
(e) 
prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, 
public or private. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
 
Final Provisions on Sectoral Annexes 
 
1. 
The Parties shall conclude as appropriate Sectoral Annexes which shall 
provide the implementing arrangements for this Chapter.   
 
2. 
A Sectoral Annex shall enter into force on the first day of the second month 
following the date on which the Parties have exchanged notes confirming the 
completion of their respective procedures for the entry into force of that Sectoral 
Annex. 
 
3. 
A Party may terminate a Sectoral Annex in its entirety by giving the other 
Party six months’ advance notice in writing unless otherwise stated in the relevant 
Sectoral Annex.  However, a Party shall continue to accept the results of conformity 
assessment or equivalence for the duration of the six-month advance notice period. 
 
4. 
Where urgent problems of safety, health, consumer or environmental 
protection or national security arise or threaten to arise for a Party, that Party may 
suspend the operation of any Sectoral Annex, in whole or in part, immediately.  In 
such cases, the Party shall immediately advise the other Party of the nature of the 
urgent problem, the goods covered and the objective and rationale of the suspension. 
 
