17  FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Regional and Local Government 
 
Each Party is fully responsible for the observance of all provisions in this 
Agreement, and, except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, shall take such 
reasonable measures1 as may be available to it to ensure that they are observed by the 
regional and local governments and authorities within its territory, and in respect of 
trade in services and investment covered by Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services) 
and  Chapter  8  (Investment)  of  this  Agreement,  that  they  are  observed  by  non-
governmental bodies (in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local 
government or authorities) within its territory. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to: 
 
(a)  require  a  Party  to  furnish  or  allow  access  to  any  information  the 
disclosure of which it determines to be contrary to its essential security 
interests; or 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Taxation Measures 
 
1.     For the purposes of this Article: 
 
“tax convention” means a convention for the avoidance of double taxation or other 
international taxation agreement or arrangement; and 
 
“taxation measures” do not include a “customs duty” as defined in Article 2(e) (General 
Definitions) of Chapter 1 (Objectives and General Definitions).  
 
2.   Except as provided in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shall apply to 
taxation measures. 
                                                 
1 For the purposes of this Chapter, “measure” includes any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or 
practice. 
1 
  
3.   This Agreement shall only grant rights or impose obligations with respect to 
taxation  measures  where  corresponding  rights  or  obligations  are  also  granted  or 
imposed under Article III of GATT 1994 and, with respect to services, including 
financial services and services supplied by a covered investment, Articles I, XVII and 
XIV(d) of GATS, mutatis mutandis.2 
 
4.   Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties 
under any tax convention in force between the Parties. In the event of any inconsistency 
relating to a taxation measure between this Agreement and such tax convention, the 
latter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. The competent authorities under 
that  convention  shall  have  sole  responsibility  for  determining  whether  any 
inconsistency exists between this Agreement and that convention. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Temporary Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting 
or maintaining restrictive measures with regard to payments or transfers for current 
account transactions in the event of serious balance of payments and external financial 
difficulties or threats thereof. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting 
or maintaining restrictive measures with regard to payments or transfers relating to the 
movements of capital: 
 
  (a)  in the event of serious balance of payments and external financial 
difficulties or threats thereof; or 
 
 (b)  if, in exceptional circumstances, payments or transfers relating to capital 
movements  cause  or  threaten  to  cause  serious  difficulties  for 
macroeconomic management. 
 
3.  Any measure adopted or maintained under paragraph 1 or 2 shall: 
 
  (a)  not be inconsistent with Articles 4 (National Treatment) and 5 (Most-
Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  of  Chapter  7  (Cross-Border  Trade  in 
Services),  Articles  4  (National  Treatment)  and  5  (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment) of Chapter 8 (Investment), or Articles 3 (National 
Treatment)  and  4  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  of  Chapter  9 
(Financial Services);3 
                                                 
2 The Parties understand that this paragraph must be interpreted by reference to the footnote to Article 
XIV(d) of GATS as if the Article were not restricted to direct taxes. 
 
3 Without prejudice to the general interpretation of Articles 4 (National Treatment) and 5 (Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services), Articles 4 (National 
Treatment) and 5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) of Chapter 8 (Investment), and Articles 3 (National 
Treatment) and 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) of Chapter 9 (Financial Services), the fact that a 
2 
  
 (b)  be  consistent  with  the  Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  International 
Monetary Fund; 
 
 (c)  avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic and financial 
interests of the other Party; 
 
 (d)  not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances described in 
paragraph 1 or 2; 
 
 (e)  be temporary and be phased out progressively as the situations specified 
in paragraph 1 or 2 improve, and shall not exceed 18 months in duration; 
however,  in  exceptional  circumstances,  a  Party  may  extend  such 
measure for additional periods of one year, by notifying the other Party 
in writing within 30 days of the extension. If the other Party advises, in 
writing, within 30 days of receiving the notification, that it does not 
agree that the extended measure is designed and applied to satisfy 
subparagraphs (c), (d) and (h), the Party imposing the measure shall 
commence consultations with the other Party within 90 days of receiving 
the notification from the other Party, and endeavour to modify the 
measure to bring it into conformity with subparagraphs (c), (d) and (h), 
taking into account the views of the other Party; 
 
(f)  not be inconsistent with Article 13 (Expropriation and Nationalisation) 
of Chapter 8 (Investment);4 
 
(g)  in the case of restrictions on capital outflows, not interfere with an 
investor’s ability to earn a market rate of return in the territory of the 
restricting Party on any restricted assets;5 and 
 
(h)  not be used to avoid necessary macroeconomic adjustment. 
 
4.  Measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to payments or 
transfers relating to foreign direct investment.6 
                                                 
measure adopted or maintained pursuant to paragraph 1 or 2 differentiates between investors on the basis 
of residency does not necessarily mean that the measure is inconsistent with Articles 4 (National 
Treatment) and 5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services), 
Articles 4 (National Treatment) and 5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) of Chapter 8 (Investment), and 
Articles 3 (National Treatment) and 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) of Chapter 9 (Financial 
Services). 
 
4 For greater certainty, measures referred to in paragraph 1 or 2 may be non-discriminatory regulatory 
actions by a Party that are designed and applied to protect legitimate public welfare objectives as referred 
to in subparagraph 3(b) of Annex 8-A (Expropriation) to Chapter 8 (Investment).  
 
5 The term “restricted assets” in this subparagraph refers only to assets invested in the territory of the 
restricting Party by an investor of the other Party that are restricted from being transferred out of the 
territory of the restricting Party. 
 
6 For the purposes of this Article, “foreign direct investment” means a type of investment by an investor 
of a Party in the territory of the other Party, through which the investor exercises ownership or control 
over, or a significant degree of influence on the management of, an enterprise or other direct investment, 
3 
  
5.  A Party shall endeavour to provide that any measures adopted or maintained 
under paragraph 1 or 2 be price-based, and if such measures are not price-based, the 
Party shall explain the rationale for using quantitative restrictions when it notifies the 
other Party of the measure. 
 
6.  In the case of trade in goods, Article XII of GATT 1994 and the Understanding 
on the Balance of Payments Provisions of the GATT 1994 are incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. Any measures adopted or maintained 
under this paragraph shall not impair the relative benefits accorded to the other Party 
under this Agreement as compared to the treatment of a non-Party. 
 
7.  A Party adopting or maintaining measures under paragraph 1, 2 or 6 shall: 
 
(a)  notify, in writing, the other Party of the measures, including any changes 
therein, along with the rationale for their imposition, within 30 days of 
their adoption; 
 
(b)  present, as soon as possible, either a time schedule or the conditions 
necessary for their removal; 
 
(c)  promptly publish the measures; and 
 
(d)  promptly commence  consultations with  the other Party in order to 
review the measures adopted or maintained by it. 
 
(i)  In the case of capital movements, promptly respond to a request 
for consultations from the other Party in relation to the measures 
adopted by it, provided that such consultations are not otherwise 
taking place outside of this Agreement. 
 
(ii)  In the case of current account restrictions, if consultations in 
relation to the measures adopted by it are not taking place under 
the framework of the WTO Agreement, a Party, if requested, 
shall promptly commence consultations with the other Party.  
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
General Exceptions 
 
1.   For the purposes of Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin) and Chapter 5 (Technical 
Regulations and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures), Article XX of GATT 1994 and 
                                                 
and tends to be undertaken in order to establish a lasting relationship. For example, ownership of at least 
10 per cent of the voting power of an enterprise over a period of at least 12 months generally would be 
considered foreign direct investment. For the purposes of this Chapter, “enterprise” means any entity 
constituted or organised under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately or 
governmentally owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, 
joint venture, association or similar organisation. 
4 
 its interpretative notes are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis.  
 
2.   The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article XX(b) of GATT 
1994 include environmental measures necessary to protect human, animal or plant life 
or health, and that Article XX(g) of GATT 1994 applies to measures relating to the 
conservation of living and non-living exhaustible natural resources. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
Contact Point 
 
Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate communications between 
the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement. On the request of a Party, the 
contact point of the requested Party shall identify the office or official responsible for 
the matter and assist in facilitating communication with the requesting Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
Review 
 
In addition to the provisions for consultations elsewhere in this Agreement, 
Ministers in charge of trade negotiations of the Parties shall meet within a year of the 
date  of  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement  and  then  biennially  or  otherwise  as 
appropriate to review this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
  Association with the Agreement   
 
This Agreement is open to accession or association by any State or separate 
customs territory, on terms to be agreed between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
Relation to Other Agreements 
 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event of any inconsistency 
between this Agreement and any other agreement to which both Parties are parties, the 
Parties shall immediately consult with each other with a view to finding a mutually 
satisfactory solution in accordance with customary rules of public international law.7 
 
                                                 
7 For the purposes of application of this Agreement, the Parties agree that the fact that an agreement 
provides more favourable treatment of goods, services, investments or persons than that provided for 
under this Agreement does not mean that there is an inconsistency within the meaning of this Article. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, “person” means a natural person or an enterprise. 
5 
  
ARTICLE 10 
 
Annexes 
 
The Annexes in this Agreement shall form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
 
Amendments 
 
This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by the Parties and 
such amendments shall enter into force on such date or dates as may be agreed between 
the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
 
Entry into Force, Duration and Termination 
 
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties have 
exchanged notes confirming the completion of their respective procedures for the entry 
into force of this Agreement. 
 
2.   Either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving the other Party six 
months’ advance notice in writing. 
 
 
 
 
6 
 