  ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 1  ANNEX 3A  SCHEDULE OF AUSTRALIA   SECTION A: Central Government Entities   Thresholds:   1. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall apply to central government entities listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with Article 2 (Scope) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), to equal or exceed:   (a)  for procurement of goods and services, 130,000 SDRs; and   (b)  for procurement of construction services, 5,000,000 SDRs.   2. The monetary thresholds set out in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with Section H of this Schedule.   List of Entities:   1. Administrative Appeals Tribunal  2. Attorney-General’s Department  3. Australian Aged Care Quality Agency  4. Australian Bureau of Statistics  5. Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research  6. Australian Crime Commission (Australian Criminal Intelligence Commission)  7. Australian Electoral Commission  8. Australian Federal Police  9. Australian Institute of Criminology  10. Australian Law Reform Commission  11. Australian National Audit Office  12. Australian Office of Financial Management (AOFM)  13. Australian Public Service Commission  14. Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA)  15. Australian Research Council  16. Australian Taxation Office  17. Australian Trade and Investment Commission (Austrade)  18. Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC)  19. Australian Transport Safety Bureau  20. Bureau of Meteorology  21. Commonwealth Grants Commission  22. CrimTrac Agency  23. Department of Agriculture and Water Resources  24. Department of Communications and the Arts  25. Department of Defence  26. Department of Education and Training  27. Department of Employment    ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 2  28. Department of Finance  29. Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade  30. Department of Health  31. Department of Human Services  32. Department of Immigration and Border Protection  33. Department of Industry, Innovation and Science  34. Department of Infrastructure and Regional Development  35. Department of Parliamentary Services  36. Department of Social Services  37. Department of the Environment and Energy  38. Department of the House of Representatives  39. Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet  40. Department of the Senate  41. Department of the Treasury  42. Department of Veterans’ Affairs  43. Fair Work Commission  44. Federal Court of Australia  45. Geoscience Australia  46. Inspector-General of Taxation  47. IP Australia  48. National Archives of Australia  49. National Blood Authority  50. National Capital Authority  51. National Competition Council  52. Office of Parliamentary Counsel  53. Office of the Australian Accounting Standards Board  54. Office of the Australian Information Commissioner  55. Office of the Commonwealth Ombudsman  56. Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions  57. Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman  58. Office of the Inspector-General of Intelligence and Security  59. Office of the Official Secretary to the Governor-General  60. Productivity Commission  61. Professional Services Review Scheme  62. Royal Australian Mint  63. Safe Work Australia  64. Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority (Seacare Authority)  65. Workplace Gender Equality Agency   Notes to Section A   1.  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall only cover those entities listed (including an office within a listed entity) in this Section.   2.  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of motor vehicles by any entity listed in this Section.   3.  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement relating to the functions of the Australian Government Solicitor.     ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 3  4.  Department of Defence   (a)  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover Department of Defence procurement of the following goods due to Article 2 (Security Exceptions) of Chapter 17 (Final Provisions):    Approximately equivalent to:   Weapons FSC 10 Fire Control Equipment FSC 12 Ammunition and Explosives FSC 13 Guided Missiles FSC 14 Aircraft and Airframe Structural Components FSC 15 Aircraft Components and Accessories FSC 16 Aircraft Launching, Landing, & Ground Handling Equipment FSC 17 Space Vehicles FSC 18 Ships, Small Craft, Pontoons and Floating Docks FSC 19 Ship and Marine Equipment FSC 20 Ground Effect Vehicles, Motor Vehicles, Trailers and Cycles FSC 23 Engines, Turbines, and Components FSC 28 Engines Accessories FSC 29 Bearings FSC 31 Water Purification and Sewage Treatment Equipment FSC 46 Valves FSC 48 Maintenance and Repair Shop Equipment FSC 49 Prefabricated Structures and Scaffolding FSC 54 Communication, Detection, and Coherent Radiation Equipment FSC 58 Electrical and Electronic Equipment Components FSC 59 Fiber Optics Materials, Components, Assemblies, and Accessories FSC 60 Electric Wire, and Power and Distribution Equipment FSC 61 Alarm, Signal and Security Detection Systems FSC 63 Instruments and Laboratory Equipment FSC 66 Specialty Metals No Code    Note: Whether a good is included within the scope of this Note shall be determined solely according to the descriptions provided in the left column above. U.S. Federal Supply Codes are provided for reference purposes only. (For a complete listing of the United States Federal Supply Codes, to which the Australian categories are approximately equivalent, see http://www.fbo.gov).  (b)  For Australia, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) does not cover the following services, as elaborated in the Common Classification System and the WTO system of classification – MTN.GNS/W/120, due to Article 2 (Security Exceptions) of Chapter 17 (Final Provisions) (For a complete listing of Common Classification System, see: http://www.sice.oas.org/trade/nafta/chap-105.asp.)    ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 4  (i)  Design, development, integration, test, evaluation, maintenance, repair, modification, rebuilding and installation of military systems and equipment (approximately equivalent to relevant parts of U.S. Product Service Codes A & J).  (ii) Operation of Government-owned Facilities (approximately equivalent to U.S. Product Service Code M).  (iii) Space services (AR, B4 & V3).  (iv) Services in support of military forces overseas.  (c) Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) does not cover the procurement of goods and services by, or on behalf of, the Defence Intelligence Organisation, the Australian Signals Directorate, or the Australian Geospatial-Intelligence Organisation.  (d) In respect of Article 4 (National Treatment and Non-Discrimination) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), the Australian Government reserves the right, pursuant to Article 2 (Security Exceptions) of Chapter 17 (Final Provisions), to maintain the Australian industry capability program and its successor programs and policies.     ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 5  SECTION B: Sub-Central Government Entities   Thresholds:  1.  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall apply to sub-central government entities listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with Article 2 (Scope) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), to equal or exceed:  (a) for procurement of goods and services, 355,000 SDR; and   (b) for procurement of construction services, 5,000,000 SDR.  2.  The monetary thresholds set out in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with Section H of this Schedule.  List of Entities:  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall cover only those entities specifically listed in this Section.  Australian Capital Territory  1.  ACT Gambling and Racing Commission 2. ACT Insurance Authority 3. ACTION 4. ACT Auditor-General 5. Capital Metro Authority 6. Chief Minister, Treasury and Economic Development Directorate 7. Community Services Directorate 8. Cultural Facilities Corporation 9. Education and Training Directorate 10. Environment and Planning Directorate 11. Health Directorate 12. Housing ACT 13. Independent Competition and Regulatory Commission 14. Justice and Community Safety Directorate 15. Legal Aid Commission 16. Ombudsman of the ACT 17. Territory and Municipal Services Directorate  Note: For the entities listed for the Australian Capital Territory, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of health and welfare services, education services, utility services, or motor vehicles.  New South Wales  1. Advocate for Children and Young People  2. Board of Studies, Teaching and Educational Standards 3. Crown Solicitor’s Office    ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 6  4. Department of Education 5. Department of Family and Community Services 6. Department of Finance, Services and Innovation 7. Department of Industry, Skills and Regional Development 8. Department of Justice 9. Department of Planning and Environment 10. Department of Premier and Cabinet 11. Environment Protection Authority 12. Fire and Rescue NSW 13. Health Care Complaints Commission 14. Information and Privacy Commission (Note 3) 15. Legal Aid Commission 16. Ministry of Health 17. Multicultural NSW 18. New South Wales Crime Commission 19. New South Wales Electoral Commission 20. NSW Food Authority 21. New South Wales Ombudsman 22. NSW Rural Assistance Authority 23. New South Wales Rural Fire Service 24. Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions NSW 25. Office of Environment and Heritage  26. Office of Local Government  27. Parliamentary Counsel’s Office  28. Police Integrity Commission 29. Public Service Commission 30. State Emergency Service 31. State Insurance Regulatory Authority 32. Sydney Harbour Foreshore Authority  33. Sydney Olympic Park Authority 34. The Audit Office of New South Wales 35. The Treasury 36. Transport for NSW (Note 4)  Note:  1. For the entities listed for New South Wales, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of health and welfare services, education services or motor vehicles.  2. For the entities listed for New South Wales, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurements undertaken by a covered entity on behalf of a non-covered entity.  3. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement related to the functions of the Privacy Commission by the Information and Privacy Commission.   4. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement by Transport for NSW, related to the functions of the Transport Construction Authority, and the Country Rail Infrastructure Authority or its successor agencies.  Northern Territory   ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 7   1. Aboriginal Areas Protection Authority 2. Auditor General’s Office 3. Central Australian Hospital Network 4. Department of Arts and Museums 5. Department of Business 6. Department of Children and Families 7. Department of Correctional Services 8. Department of Health 9. Department of Housing 10. Department of Land Resource Management 11. Department of Lands, Planning and the Environment 12. Department of Local Government and Community Services 13. Department of Mines and Energy 14. Department of Primary Industry and Fisheries 15. Department of Sport and Recreation 16. Department of the Attorney-General and Justice 17. Department of the Chief Minister 18. Department of the Legislative Assembly 19. Department of Treasury and Finance 20. Health and Community Services Complaints Commission  21. Land Development Corporation 22. Board of the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory 23. Northern Territory Electoral Commission 24. Northern Territory Emergency Service 25. Northern Territory Employment and Training Authority 26. Northern Territory Fire and Rescue Service 27. Office of the Commissioner for Public Employment 28. Ombudsman’s Office 29. Parks and Wildlife Commission of the Northern Territory 30. Police Force of the Northern Territory 31. Racing Commission 32. Remuneration Tribunal 33. Strehlow Research Centre Board 34. Top End Hospital Network 35. Tourism NT 36. Utilities Commission of the Northern Territory 37. Work Health Authority  Note: For the entities listed for the Northern Territory, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) does not cover set-asides on behalf of the Charles Darwin University pursuant to Partnership Agreements between the Northern Territory Government and Charles Darwin University.  Queensland  Entities declared to be departments pursuant to section 14 of the Public Service Act 2008 (Qld) 1. Motor Accident Insurance Commission 2. Nominal Defendant 3. Public Service Business Agency 4. Public Service Commission   ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 8  5. Public Trust Office   Note:  1. For the entities listed for Queensland, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurement:  (a) by covered entities on behalf of non-covered entities;   (b) undertaken by departments, or parts of departments, which deliver health, education, training or arts services; or   (c) of health services, education services, training services, arts services, welfare services, government advertising and motor vehicles.  2.  For entities listed for Queensland, Article 15.3(f) (Post Award Information) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement for Australia and Singapore, so as to allow time for the entities listed for Queensland to make necessary modifications to electronic means to enable the publication of such information.   South Australia  1. Attorney-General’s Department  2. Auditor-General’s Department  3. Country Fire Service  4. Courts Administration Authority  5. Defence SA  6. Department for Communities and Social Inclusion  7. Department for Correctional Services  8. Department for Education and Child Development  9. Department for Health and Ageing  10. Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources  11. Department of Planning, Transport and Infrastructure  12. Department of Primary Industries and Regions  13. Department of State Development  14. Department of the Premier and Cabinet  15. Department of Treasury and Finance  16. Electoral Commission of South Australia  17. Environment Protection Authority 18. Independent Gambling Authority 19. Parliament of South Australia  20. SA Tourism Commission 21. SAFECOM  22. South Australia Police 23. South Australian Metropolitan Fire Service  24. State Emergency Service 25. State Procurement Board   ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 9  26. TAFE SA  Note: For the entities listed for South Australia, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of health and welfare services, education services, advertising services or motor vehicles.  Tasmania  1. Department of Education 2. Department of Health and Human Services 3. Department of Justice 4. Department of Police and Emergency Management  5. Department of Premier and Cabinet 6. Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment 7. Department of State Growth 8. Department of Treasury and Finance 9. House of Assembly 10. Legislative Council 11. Legislature-General 12. Office of the Governor 13. Tasmanian Audit Office 14. Tasmanian Health Service 15. Office of the Ombudsman  16. Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 17. Tourism Tasmania  Note: For the entities listed for Tasmania, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of health and welfare services, education services, or advertising services.   Victoria  1. Commission for Children and Young People 2. Department of Economic Development, Jobs, Transport and Resources 3. Department of Education and Training  4. Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning  5. Department of Health and Human Services  6. Department of Justice and Regulation 7. Department of Premier and Cabinet  8. Department of Treasury and Finance  9. Essential Services Commission 10. Game Management Authority 11. Independent Broad-Based Anti-corruption Commission  12. Office of Public Prosecutions  13. Office of the Chief Commissioner of Police (Victoria Police)  14. Office of the Commissioner for Environmental Sustainability  15. Office of the Fire Services Levy Monitor  16. Office of the Freedom of Information Commissioner 17. Office of the Legal Services Commissioner  18. Office of the Ombudsman    ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 10  19. Office of the Privacy Commissioner  20. Office of the Road Safety Camera Commissioner  21. Office of the Victorian Inspectorate 22. Taxi Services Commission  23. Victorian Auditor-General’s Office  24. Victorian Commission for Gambling and Liquor Regulation  25. Victorian Electoral Commission  26. Victorian Equal Opportunity and Human Rights Commission  27. Victorian Public Sector Commission 28. Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation  Note:  1. For the entities listed for Victoria, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of motor vehicles.   2. For the entities listed for Victoria, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurement by covered entities on behalf of non-covered entities.  Western Australia  1. Botanic Gardens and Parks Authority 2. Corruption and Crime Commission (Western Australia) 3. Country High Schools Hostels Authority 4. Department of Aboriginal Affairs 5. Department of Agriculture and Food 6. Department of Child Protection and Family Support 7. Department of Commerce 8. Department of Corrective Services 9. Department of Culture and the Arts 10. Department of Education 11. Department of Education Services 12. Department of Environment Regulation 13. Department of Fire and Emergency Services 14. Department of Finance 15. Department of Fisheries 16. Department of Health 17. Department of Lands 18. Department of Local Government and Communities 19. Department of Mines and Petroleum 20. Department of Parks and Wildlife 21. Department of Planning 22. Department of Racing, Gaming and Liquor 23. Department of Regional Development 24. Department of Sport and Recreation 25. Department of State Development 26. Department of Training and Workforce Development 27. Department of Treasury 28. Department of Water 29. Department of the Attorney General    ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 11  30. Department of the Premier and Cabinet 31. Department of the Registrar Western Australia Industrial Relations Commission 32. Disability Services Commission 33. Equal Opportunity Commission 34. Gascoyne Development Commission  35. Goldfields Esperance Development Commission 36. Governor’s Establishment 37. Great Southern Development Commission  38. Heritage Council of Western Australia 39. Housing Authority 40. Kimberley Development Commission 41. Law Reform Commission of Western Australia 42. Legislative Assembly 43. Legislative Council 44. Main Roads Western Australia 45. Mid West Development Commission 46. Minerals and Energy Research Institute of Western Australia 47. National Trust of Australia (WA) 48. Office of the Auditor General 49. Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 50. Office of the Information Commissioner 51. Office of the Inspector of Custodial Services  52. Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigations 53. Parliamentary Services Department 54. Peel Development Commission   55. Pilbara Development Commission 56. Public Sector Commission 57. Public Transport Authority 58. Rottnest Island Authority 59. Rural Business Development Corporation 60. Salaries and Allowances Tribunal 61. School Curriculum and Standards Authority 62. Small Business Development Corporation 63. South West Development Commission  64. State Library of Western Australia 65. Swan River Trust 66. Western Australia Police 67. Western Australian Electoral Commission 68. Western Australian Land Information Authority (Landgate) 69. Western Australian Planning Commission  70. Western Australian Sports Centre Trust (trading as VenuesWest) 71. Western Australian Tourism Commission 72. Wheatbelt Development Commission 73. Zoological Parks Authority  Note: For greater certainty, consistent with Article 8.9 (Qualification of Suppliers) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), in relation to procurements from the Department of Finance, Building Management and Works’ Prequalification Scheme; and Main Road’s ‘National Prequalification System for Civil (Road and Bridge) Construction Contracts’ Scheme, requests for participation in a procurement from suppliers not already prequalified at the time of tender   ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 12  release will not be considered due to the time and complexity involved in assessing requests. This does not preclude suppliers from applying at any time to become prequalified. Prequalification ensures the financial security of building and construction contractors and does not discriminate between local suppliers and the suppliers of other Parties.  Notes to Section B   For entities listed in this Section:  1. In relation to multi-use lists:   (a) a notice inviting suppliers to apply for inclusion on a multi-use list may be used as a notice of intended procurement, provided a statement is included that only suppliers on the multi-use list will receive further notices of procurement covered by the multi-use list; and   (b) where all or a limited number of qualified suppliers have been selected, the time period for tendering may be fixed by mutual agreement between the procuring entity and the selected suppliers. In the absence of agreement, the period shall not be less than 10 days.       ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 13   SECTION C: Other Entities   Thresholds:   1. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall apply to other covered entities listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with Article 2 (Scope) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), to equal or exceed:   (a)  for procurement of goods and services, 400,000 SDR   (b) for procurement of construction services, 5,000,000 SDR   2.  The monetary thresholds set out in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with Section H of this Schedule.   List of Entities:   1.  Australian Communications and Media Authority  2. Australian Competition and Consumer Commission  3. Australian Financial Security Authority  4. Australian Fisheries Management Authority  5. Australian Human Rights Commission  6. Australian Institute of Health and Welfare  7. Australian Institute of Marine Science  8. Australian Maritime Safety Authority  9. Australian National Maritime Museum  10. Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation  11. Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority  12. Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  13. Australian Securities and Investments Commission  14. Australian War Memorial (Note 3)  15. Comcare  16. Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation  17. Export Finance and Insurance Corporation  18. Grains Research and Development Corporation  19. Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority 20. National Gallery of Australia  21. National Museum of Australia  22. Old Parliament House  23. Reserve Bank of Australia  24. Sydney Harbour Federation Trust  25. The Director of National Parks  26. Tourism Australia   Notes to Section C   1. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall cover only those entities listed in this Section.    ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 14   2. For the entities listed in this Section, Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of motor vehicles.   3. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement of telecommunications services by the Australian War Memorial.   ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 15  SECTION D: Goods   1. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall apply to all goods procured by the entities listed in Sections A, through C, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), including this Schedule.   2. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of blood and blood-related products, including plasma derived products.     ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 16  SECTION E: Services   Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall apply to all services procured by the entities listed in Sections A, B and C, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), including this Schedule.   Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of:   (a)  plasma fractionation services;   (b) government advertising services;   (c) health and welfare services; and   (d) research and development services.     ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 17  SECTION F: Construction Services   Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall apply to all construction services procured by the entities listed in Sections A, B and C, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), including in this Schedule.     ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 18  SECTION G: General Notes   Unless otherwise specified herein, the following General Notes in Australia’s Schedule shall apply without exception to Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), including to all Sections of this Schedule.   1. Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to:   (a) any form of preference to benefit small and medium enterprises;   (b) measures to protect national treasures of artistic, historic, or archaeological value;   (c) measures for the health and welfare of indigenous people; and   (d) measures for the economic and social advancement of indigenous people.   2.  For greater certainty:   (a)  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurement funded by grants and sponsorship payments received from persons not listed in this Annex; and  (b)  Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurement by a procuring entity from another government entity.     ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 19  SECTION H: Threshold Adjustment Formula   1. The thresholds shall be adjusted in every even-numbered year with each adjustment taking effect on January 1, beginning on January 1 of the first even numbered year after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Australia.   2. Every two years, Australia shall calculate and publish the value of the thresholds under Chapter 6 (Government Procurement) expressed in Australian dollars. These calculations shall be based on the conversion rates published by the International Monetary Fund in its monthly International Financial Statistics.   3. The conversion rates shall be the average of the daily values of the Australian dollar in terms of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) over the two-year period preceding October 1 or November 1 of the year before the adjusted thresholds are to take effect, and rounded to the nearest thousand Australian dollars.   4. Australia shall notify Singapore of the current thresholds in its currency immediately after this Agreement enters into force, and the adjusted thresholds in its currency thereafter in a timely manner.   5.  Australia shall consult if a major change in its national currency relative to the SDR or to the national currency of Singapore were to create a significant problem with regard to the application of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement).   ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 20  SECTION I: Procurement Information   All information on government procurement is published on the following websites:   Legislation and Regulations: http://www.comlaw.gov.au/   Australian Government Tender System: https://www.tenders.gov.au/      ANNEX 3A – AUSTRALIA 21  SECTION J: Implementation Arrangements   1. The following Articles shall not apply for Australia until the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement has entered into force for both Australia and Singapore:  (a) Articles 6.1 and 6.3(h) (Notices of Intended Procurement) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), with respect to Multi-Use Lists;  (b) Article 8 (Qualification of Suppliers) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), with respect to Multi-Use Lists; and  (b) Article 15.3 (f) (Post-Award Information) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement).   2. Notwithstanding Article 18 (Domestic Review) of Chapter 6 (Government Procurement), Australia may delay application of its obligations under Article 18 until the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement has entered into force for both Australia and Singapore. Prior to the entry into force of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement for both Australia and Singapore, Australia will allow suppliers of Singapore to make a complaint in accordance with the following procedures:   (a)  In the event of a complaint by a supplier that there has been a breach of measures implementing the obligations of this Chapter in the context of a covered procurement, each Party shall:   (i) encourage the supplier to seek resolution of its complaint in consultation with the procuring entity. In such instances the procuring entity shall accord impartial and timely consideration to any such complaint, in a manner that is not prejudicial to obtaining corrective measures; under the challenge system;  (ii) maintain at least one impartial administrative or judicial authority that is independent of its procuring entities to receive and review, in a non-discriminatory, timely, transparent and effective manner, complaints that suppliers submit, in accordance with the Party’s laws, regulations and procedures, relating to a covered procurement; and   (iii) make information on complaint mechanisms generally available.    