SINGAPORE-AUSTRALIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 
Chapter 5 
 
TECHNICAL REGULATIONS AND SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY 
MEASURES 
 
 
SECTORAL ANNEX ON WINE AND DISTILLED SPIRITS 
 
 
Pursuant to Chapter 5 (Technical Regulations and Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures), the Parties agree to this Sectoral Annex on Wine and Distilled Spirits for 
the purpose of facilitating trade in wine and distilled spirits between the Parties.  
 
The Parties have agreed as follows: 
 
 
Scope  
 
This Annex shall apply to wine and distilled spirits.  
 
 
Definitions 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Annex:  
 
(a)  “container” means any bottle, barrel, cask or other closed receptacle, 
irrespective of size or of the material from which it is made, used for the 
retail sale of wine or distilled spirits; 
 
(b)  “distilled spirits” means a potable alcoholic distillate, including spirits 
of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, tequila, mezcal and all dilutions or 
mixtures of those spirits for consumption; 
 
(c)  “label” means any brand, mark, pictorial or other descriptive matter that 
is written, printed, stencilled, marked, embossed or impressed on, or 
firmly affixed to the primary container of wine or distilled spirits; 
 
(d)  “oenological  practices”  means  winemaking  materials,  processes, 
treatments and techniques, but does not include labelling, bottling or 
packaging for final sale; 
 
(e)  “single field of vision” means any part of the surface of a primary 
container, excluding its base and cap, that can be seen without having to 
turn the container; 
 
(f)  “supplier” means a producer, importer, exporter, bottler or wholesaler;  
 
(g)  “verify” means to take action to confirm the veracity of individual 
conformity assessment results, such as requesting information from the 
ANNEX  5C– 1 
 conformity assessment body or the body that accredited, approved, 
licensed or otherwise recognised the conformity assessment body, but 
does not include requirements that subject a product to conformity 
assessment in the territory of the importing Party that duplicate the 
conformity assessment procedures already conducted with respect to the 
product in the territory of the exporting Party or a third party, except on 
a random or infrequent basis for the purpose of surveillance, or in 
response to information indicating non-compliance; and  
 
(h)  “wine” means a beverage that is produced by the complete or partial 
alcoholic  fermentation  exclusively  of  fresh  grapes,  grape  must,  or 
products derived from fresh grapes in accordance with oenological 
practices that the country in which the wine is produced authorises under 
its laws and regulations. 
 
 
Obligations 
 
Information and Labelling 
 
3.  Each Party shall make information about its laws and regulations concerning 
wine and distilled spirits publicly available. 
 
4.  A Party may require a supplier to ensure that any statement required by that 
Party to be placed on a wine or distilled spirits label is: 
 
(a)  clear, specific, truthful, accurate, and not misleading to the consumer; 
and 
 
(b)  legible to the consumer; and  
 
that such labels be firmly affixed. 
 
5.  If a Party requires a supplier to indicate information on a distilled spirits label, 
the Party shall permit the supplier to indicate that information on a supplementary label 
that is affixed to the distilled spirits container. Each Party shall permit a supplier to affix 
the  supplementary  label  on  the  container  of  the  imported  distilled  spirits  after 
importation but prior to offering the product for sale in the Party’s territory, and may 
require that the supplier affix the supplementary label prior to release from customs. 
For  greater  certainty,  a  Party  may  require  that  the  information  indicated  on  a 
supplementary label meet the requirements in paragraph 4. 
 
6.  Each Party shall permit the alcoholic content by volume indicated on a wine or 
distilled spirits label to be expressed by alcohol by volume (alc/vol), for example 12% 
alc/vol or alc12%vol, and to be indicated in percentage terms to a maximum of one 
decimal point, for example 12.1%. 
  
7.  Each Party shall permit suppliers to use the term “wine” as a product name. A 
Party  may  require  a  supplier  to  indicate  additional  information  on  a  wine  label 
concerning the type, category, class or classification of the wine. 
ANNEX  5C– 2 
  
8.  With respect to wine labels, each Party shall permit the information set out in 
subparagraphs 10(a), (b), (c) and (d) to be presented in a single field of vision for a 
container of wine. If this information is presented in a single field of vision, then the 
Party’s requirements with respect to placement of this information are satisfied. A Party 
shall accept any of the information that appears outside a single field of vision if that 
information satisfies that Party’s laws, regulations and requirements. 
 
9.  Notwithstanding paragraph 8, a Party may require net contents to be displayed 
on the principal display panel for a subset of less commonly used container sizes if 
specifically required by that Party’s laws or regulations. 
 
10.  If a Party requires a wine label to indicate information other than: 
 
(a)  the product name; 
 
(b)  country of origin; 
 
(c)  net contents; or  
 
(d)  alcohol content,  
 
it shall permit the supplier to indicate the information on a supplementary label affixed 
to the wine container. A Party shall permit the supplier to affix the supplementary label 
on the container of the imported wine after importation but prior to offering the product 
for  sale  in  the  Party’s  territory,  and  may  require  that  the  supplier  affix  the 
supplementary label prior to release from customs. For greater certainty, a Party may 
require that information on a supplementary label meet the requirements set out in 
paragraph 4. 
 
11.  For the purposes of paragraphs 4, 5 and 10, if there is more than one label on a 
container of imported wine or distilled spirits, a Party may require that each label be 
visible and not obscure mandatory information on another label. 
 
12.  If a Party has more than one official language, it may require that information 
on a wine or distilled spirits label appear in equal prominence in each official language. 
 
13.  Each Party shall permit a supplier to place a lot identification code on a wine or 
distilled spirits container, if the code is clear, specific, truthful, accurate and not 
misleading, and shall permit the supplier to determine: 
 
(a)  where to place the lot identification code on the container, provided that 
the code does not cover up essential information printed on the label; 
and 
 
(b)  the specific font size, readable phrasing and formatting for the code 
provided  that  the  lot  identification  code  is  legible  by  physical  or 
electronic means. 
 
ANNEX  5C– 3 
 14.  A Party may impose penalties for the removal or deliberate defacement of any 
lot identification code provided by the supplier and placed on the container. 
 
15.  Neither  Party  shall  require  a  supplier  to  indicate  any  of  the  following 
information on a wine or distilled spirits container, labels or packaging: 
 
(a)  date of production or manufacture; 
 
(b)  date of expiration;  
 
(c)  date of minimum durability; or  
 
(d)  sell by date,  
 
except that a Party may require a supplier to indicate a date of minimum durability or 
expiration  on  products  that  could  have  a  shorter  date  of  minimum  durability  or 
expiration  than  would  normally  be  expected  by  the  consumer  because  of:  their 
packaging or container, for example bag-in-box wines or individual serving size wines; 
or the addition of perishable ingredients. 
 
16.  Neither Party shall require a supplier to place a translation of a trademark or 
trade name on a wine or distilled spirits container, label or packaging. 
 
17.  Neither Party shall prevent imports of wine from the other Party solely on the 
basis that the wine label includes the following descriptors or adjectives describing the 
wine or relating to wine-making: chateau, classic, clos, cream, crusted/crusting, fine, 
late bottled vintage, noble, reserve, ruby, special reserve, solera, superior, sur lie, tawny, 
vintage or vintage character.  
   
18.  Neither Party shall require a supplier to disclose an oenological practice on a 
wine label or container except to meet a legitimate human health or safety objective 
with respect to that oenological practice. 
 
Certification and Classification 
 
19.  Each Party shall endeavour to base its quality and identity requirements for any 
specific type, category, class or classification of distilled spirits solely on minimum 
ethyl  alcohol  content  and  the  raw  materials,  added  ingredients  and  production 
procedures used to produce that specific type, category, class or classification of 
distilled spirits. 
 
20.  Neither Party shall require imported wine or distilled spirits to be certified by 
an official certification body of the Party in whose territory the wine or distilled spirits 
were produced or by a certification body recognised by the Party in whose territory the 
wine or distilled spirits were produced regarding: 
 
(a)  vintage, varietal, and regional claims for wine; or  
 
(b)  raw materials and production processes for distilled spirits,  
 
ANNEX  5C– 4 
 except that the Party may require that wine or distilled spirits be certified regarding 
subparagraphs (a) or (b) if the Party in whose territory the wine or distilled spirits were 
produced requires that certification, that wine be certified regarding subparagraph (a) if 
the Party has a reasonable and legitimate concern about a vintage, varietal or regional 
claim for wine, or that distilled spirits be certified regarding subparagraph (b) if 
certification is necessary to verify claims such as age, origin or standards of identity. 
 
21.  If a Party deems that certification of wine is necessary to protect human health 
or safety or to achieve other legitimate objectives, that Party shall consider the Codex 
Alimentarius Guidelines for Design, Production, Issuance and Use of Generic Official 
Certificates (CAC/GL 38-2001), in particular the use of the generic model official 
certificate, as amended from time-to-time, concerning official and officially recognised 
certificates. 
 
22.  A Party shall normally permit a wine or distilled spirits supplier to submit any 
required certification, test result or sample only with the initial shipment of a particular 
brand, producer and lot. If a Party requires a supplier to submit a sample of the product 
for the Party’s procedure to assess conformity with its technical regulation or standard, 
it shall not require a sample quantity larger than the minimum quantity necessary to 
complete the relevant conformity assessment procedure. Nothing in this provision 
precludes a Party from undertaking verification of test results or certification, for 
example, where the Party has information that a particular product may be non-
compliant.  
 
23.  Unless problems of human health or safety arise or threaten to arise for a Party, 
a Party shall not normally apply any final technical regulation, standard or conformity 
assessment procedure to wine or distilled spirits that have been placed on the market in 
the Party’s territory before the date on which the technical regulation, standard or 
conformity assessment procedure enters into force, provided that the products are sold 
within a period of time after the date the technical regulation, standard or conformity 
assessment procedure enters into force, stipulated by the authority responsible for that 
technical regulation, standard or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
24.  Each Party shall endeavour to assess the other Party’s laws, regulations and 
requirements in respect of oenological practices, with the aim of reaching agreements 
that provide for the Parties’ acceptance of each other’s mechanisms for regulating 
oenological practices, if appropriate. 
 
 
 
ANNEX  5C– 5 
 