 
 
 
105
 
 
15 
EDUCATION COOPERATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Scope and Purpose 
 
The purpose of this Chapter is to foster closer people-to-people links and mutual 
understanding between Australia and Singapore and to enhance the role played by 
education in enhancing the bilateral trade and investment relationship through 
promoting mutual cooperation in education.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2  
 
Fields of Cooperation 
 
Both Parties shall encourage and facilitate, as appropriate, exchanges in the 
following fields: 
 
(a) 
quality assurance processes; 
 
(b) 
on-line and distance education at all levels; 
 
(c) 
primary and secondary education systems; 
 
(d) 
higher education;  
 
(e) 
technical education and vocational training; 
 
(f) 
industry collaboration for technical and vocational training; and 
 
(g) 
teacher training and development.  
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Facilitation of Cooperation 
 
Both Parties shall encourage and facilitate, as appropriate, the development of 
contacts and cooperation between their respective government agencies, educational 
institutions, organisations, and other entities and the conclusion of arrangements 
between such bodies to cooperate in the above fields.  These may be achieved through: 
 
(a) 
joint planning and implementation of programs and projects, and joint 
coordination of targeted activities in agreed fields; 
 
 
 
 
106
(b) 
development of collaborative training, joint research and development, 
technology transfer and joint ventures between appropriate authorities and 
institutions; 
 
(c) 
development of programs which can be jointly delivered by institutions;  
 
(d) 
exchange of teaching staff, administrators, researchers and students;  
 
(e) 
academic credit transfer and mutual recognition of academic and 
vocational qualifications, between recognised institutions of higher learning; 
 
(f) 
cooperation in areas of interest in technical and vocational education; 
 
(g) 
exchange of teaching and curriculum materials, teaching aids, and 
demonstration materials as well as the organisation of relevant specialised 
exhibitions and seminars;  
 
(h) 
exchange of information on: 
 
(i) 
study opportunities in Australia and Singapore;  
 
(ii) 
education systems and standards; and 
 
(iii) 
research projects, symposia and other academic events; 
 
(i) 
cooperative research in emerging education issues; 
 
(j) 
collaboration on the development of quality assured innovative 
resources to support learning and assessment, and the professional 
development of teachers and trainers in training and vocational education; and 
 
(k) 
other forms of cooperation as may be mutually determined. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Student Mobility and Scholarship Arrangements 
 
1. 
Both Parties shall foster the mobility of students. 
 
2. 
A Party shall, subject to any qualification requirements for professional 
practice in its territory, allow its scholarships for overseas studies to be tenable at 
universities in the territory of the other Party. 
 
3. 
Both Parties shall encourage their government scholarship nominees to 
consider the other Party as one of the countries for their overseas study.  
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
 
 
 
107
Costs 
 
1. 
Cooperation under this Chapter shall be subject to the availability of funds. 
 
2. 
The cooperative activities under this Chapter shall be funded as mutually 
determined. 
 
 
