14  ELECTRONIC COMMERCE 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Definitions 
  
1.  The purposes of this Chapter are to promote electronic commerce between the 
Parties and to promote the wider use of electronic commerce globally.  
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter:  
  
(a)  “computing facilities” means computer servers and storage devices for 
processing or storing information for commercial use;  
 
(b)  “covered person”1 means: 
 
  (i)  a  “covered  investment”  as  defined  in  Article  2(c)  (General 
Definitions) of Chapter 1 (Objectives and General Definitions); 
 
(ii)  an “investor of a Party” as defined in Article 1 (Definitions) of 
Chapter 8 (Investment); but does not include an investor in a 
financial institution; or 
 
(iii)  a  “service  supplier  of  a  Party”  as  defined  in  Article  1 
(Definitions) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services) 
 
but does not include a “financial institution” or a “cross-border financial 
service supplier of a Party” as defined in Article 1 (Definitions) of 
Chapter 9 (Financial Services); 
 
(c)  “customs  duty”  has  the  same  meaning  as  Article  2(e)  (General 
Definitions) of Chapter 1 (Objectives and General Definitions);  
 
(d)  “digital product” means a computer programme, text, video, image, 
sound recording or other product that is digitally encoded, produced for 
commercial  sale  or  distribution,  and  that  can  be  transmitted 
electronically;2, 3 
 
(e)  “electronic authentication” means the process or act of verifying the 
identity of a party to an electronic communication or transaction and 
ensuring the integrity of an electronic communication; 
                                                 
1 For Australia, a “covered person” does not include a credit reporting body. 
 
2 For greater certainty, “digital product” does not include a digitised representation of a financial 
instrument, including money. 
 
3 The definition of “digital product” should not be understood to reflect a Party’s view on whether trade 
in digital products through electronic transmission should be categorised as trade in services or trade in 
goods. 
 
1 
  
(f)  “electronic  transmission”  or  “transmitted  electronically”  means  a 
transmission  made  using  any  electromagnetic  means,  including  by 
photonic means; 
 
(g)  “electronic version” of a document means a document in an electronic 
format prescribed by a Party, including a document sent by facsimile 
transmission;  
 
(h)  “enterprise” means any entity constituted or organised under applicable 
law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately or governmentally 
owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole 
proprietorship, joint venture, association or similar organisation; 
 
(i)  “measure”  includes  any  law,  regulation,  procedure,  requirement  or 
practice; 
 
(j)  “person” means a natural person or an enterprise; 
 
(k)  “person of a Party” means a national4 or an enterprise of a Party; 
 
(l)  “personal information” means any information, including data, about an 
identified or identifiable natural person; 
 
(m)  “trade administration documents” means forms issued or controlled by 
a Party that must be completed by or for an importer or exporter in 
connection with the import or export of goods;  
 
(n)  “TRIPS Agreement” means the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of 
Intellectual  Property  Rights,  set  out  in  Annex  1C  to  the  WTO 
Agreement;5 and 
 
(o)  “unsolicited  commercial  electronic  message”  means  an  electronic 
message which is sent for commercial or marketing purposes to an 
electronic address, without the consent of the recipient or despite the 
explicit rejection of the recipient, through an Internet access service 
supplier or, to the extent provided for under the laws and regulations of 
each Party, other telecommunications service.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
                                                 
 
 
 
 
5 For greater certainty, a reference in this Agreement to the TRIPS Agreement includes any waiver in 
force between the Parties of any provision of the TRIPS Agreement granted by WTO Members in 
accordance with the WTO Agreement. 
 
2 
 Scope 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the economic growth and opportunities provided by 
electronic  commerce  and  the  importance  of  frameworks  that  promote  consumer 
confidence in electronic commerce and of avoiding unnecessary barriers to its use and 
development. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party that 
affect trade by electronic means.  
 
3.  This Chapter shall not apply to:  
 
(a)  government procurement; or  
 
(b)  information held or processed by or on behalf of a Party or measures 
related to such information, including measures related to its collection. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, measures affecting the supply of a service delivered or 
performed  electronically  are  subject  to  the  obligations  contained  in  the  relevant 
provisions of Chapters 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services), 8 (Investment) and 9 
(Financial Services), including any exceptions or non-conforming measures set out in 
this Agreement that are applicable to those obligations.  
 
5.  For  greater  certainty,  the  obligations  contained  in  Articles  5  (Non-
Discriminatory  Treatment  of  Digital  Products),  13  (Cross-Border  Transfer  of 
Information by Electronic Means), 15 (Location of Computing Facilities) and 19 
(Source Code) are:  
 
(a)  subject  to  the  relevant  provisions,  exceptions  and  non-conforming 
measures  of  Chapters  7  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services),  8 
(Investment) and 9 (Financial Services); and  
 
(b)  to be read in conjunction with any other relevant provisions in this 
Agreement. 
 
6.  The obligations contained in Articles 5 (Non-Discriminatory Treatment of 
Digital Products), 13 (Cross-Border Transfer of Information by Electronic Means) and 
15 (Location of Computing Facilities) shall not apply to the non-conforming aspects of 
measures adopted or maintained in accordance with Article 7 (Reservations) of Chapter 
7  (Cross-Border  Trade  in  Services)  and  Article  11  (Reservations)  of  Chapter  8 
(Investment). 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
  
Transparency  
  
1.  Each  Party  shall  promptly  publish,  or  otherwise  promptly  make  publicly 
available  where  publication  is  not  practicable,  all  relevant  measures  of  general 
application which pertain to or affect the operation of this Chapter.  
3 
   
2.  Each Party shall respond promptly to any request by the other Party for specific 
information on any of its measures of general application within the meaning of 
paragraph 1.   
  
  
ARTICLE 4 
  
Customs Duties  
 
1.  Neither  Party  shall  impose  customs  duties  on  electronic  transmissions, 
including content transmitted electronically, between a person of a Party and a person 
of the other Party.  
 
2.  For greater certainty, paragraph 1 shall not preclude a Party from imposing 
internal taxes, fees or other charges on content transmitted electronically, provided that 
such taxes, fees or charges are imposed in a manner consistent with this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
Non-Discriminatory Treatment of Digital Products 
 
1.  Neither Party shall accord less favourable treatment to a digital product created, 
produced,  published,  contracted  for,  commissioned  or  first  made  available  on 
commercial terms in the territory of the other Party, or to a digital product of which the 
author, performer, producer, developer or owner is a person of the other Party, than it 
accords to other like digital products.  
 
2.  Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the extent of any inconsistency with the rights 
and obligations in the TRIPS Agreement or with Chapter 13 (Intellectual Property). 
 
3.  The Parties understand that this Article does not apply to subsidies or grants 
provided by a Party including government-supported loans, guarantees and insurance. 
 
4.  This Article shall not apply to broadcasting. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
  
Domestic Electronic Transactions Framework 
  
1.  Each Party shall maintain a legal framework governing electronic transactions 
consistent with the principles of the UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Commerce 
1996 or the United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in 
International Contracts, done at New York, November 23, 2005.  
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to:  
 
4 
 (a)  avoid any unnecessary regulatory burden on electronic transactions; 
and  
 
(b)  facilitate input by interested persons in the development of its legal 
framework for electronic transactions.   
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
  
Electronic Authentication and Electronic Signatures  
 
1.  Except in circumstances otherwise provided for under its law, a Party shall not 
deny the legal validity of a signature solely on the basis that the signature is in electronic 
form.  
 
2  Neither Party shall adopt or maintain measures for electronic authentication that 
would:  
 
(a)  prohibit the other Party to  an  electronic transaction from  mutually 
determining the appropriate authentication methods for that transaction; 
or  
 
(b)  prevent the other Party to an electronic transaction from having the 
opportunity to establish before judicial or administrative authorities that 
their transaction complies with any legal requirements with respect to 
authentication.  
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraph 2, a Party may require that, for a particular category 
of transactions, the method of authentication meets certain performance standards or is 
certified by an authority accredited in accordance with its law.  
 
4.  The Parties shall encourage the use of interoperable electronic authentication. 
 
  
ARTICLE 8 
 
Online Consumer Protection  
 
1.  The Parties recognise the importance of adopting and maintaining transparent 
and effective measures to protect consumers from fraudulent and deceptive commercial 
activities, when they engage in electronic commerce.  
 
2.  For the purposes of this Article, fraudulent and deceptive commercial activities 
refers to those fraudulent and deceptive commercial practices that cause actual harm to 
consumers, or that pose an imminent threat of such harm if not prevented, for example, 
a practice of: 
 
(a)  making a misrepresentation of material fact, including an implied factual 
misrepresentation, that causes significant detriment to the economic 
interests of a misled consumer; 
5 
  
(b)  failing to deliver products or provide services to a consumer after the 
consumer is charged; or 
 
(c)  charging or debiting a consumer’s financial, telephone or other accounts 
without authorisation. 
 
3.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain consumer protection laws to proscribe 
fraudulent and deceptive commercial activities that cause harm or potential harm to 
consumers engaged in online commercial activities. 
 
4.  The Parties recognise the importance of cooperation between their respective 
national consumer protection agencies or other relevant bodies on activities related to 
cross-border electronic commerce in order to enhance consumer welfare. To this end, 
the Parties affirm that the cooperation sought includes cooperation with respect to 
online commercial activities. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
Personal Information Protection 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  the  economic  and  social  benefits  of  protecting  the 
personal information of users of electronic commerce and the contribution that this 
makes to enhancing consumer confidence in electronic commerce. 
 
2.  To this end, each Party shall adopt or maintain a legal framework that provides 
for the protection of the personal information of the users of electronic commerce. In 
the development of its legal framework for the protection of personal information, each 
Party should take into account principles and guidelines of relevant international 
bodies.6 
 
3.  Each Party shall endeavour to adopt non-discriminatory practices in protecting 
users of electronic commerce from personal information protection violations occurring 
within its jurisdiction. 
 
4.  Each Party should publish information on the personal information protections 
it provides to users of electronic commerce, including how: 
 
(a)  an individual can pursue remedies; and 
 
(b)  business can comply with any legal requirements. 
 
5.  Recognising that the Parties may take different legal approaches to protecting 
personal information, each Party should encourage the development of mechanisms to 
promote compatibility between these different regimes. These mechanisms may include 
                                                 
6 For greater certainty, a Party may comply with the obligation in this paragraph by adopting or 
maintaining measures such as comprehensive privacy, personal information or personal data protection 
laws, sector-specific laws covering privacy, or laws that provide for the enforcement of voluntary 
undertakings by enterprises relating to privacy. 
6 
 the recognition of regulatory outcomes, whether accorded autonomously or by mutual 
arrangement,  or  broader  international  frameworks.  To  this  end,  the  Parties  shall 
endeavour  to  exchange  information  on  any  such  mechanisms  applied  in  their 
jurisdictions and explore ways to extend these or other suitable arrangements to 
promote compatibility between them. 
  
  
ARTICLE 10 
 
Paperless Trading 
  
1.  Each Party shall make publicly available, which may include through a process 
prescribed by that Party, electronic versions of all existing publicly available versions 
of trade administration documents.   
 
2.  Each Party shall accept electronic versions of its trade administration documents 
as the legal equivalent of paper documents except where:  
 
(a)  there is a domestic or international legal requirement to the contrary; or  
 
(b)  doing so would reduce the effectiveness of the trade administration 
process.  
 
3.  The Parties shall cooperate bilaterally and in international fora to enhance the 
acceptance of electronic versions of trade administration documents.  
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
 
Exceptions 
  
This Chapter shall be subject to Article 16 (General Exceptions) of Chapter 7 
(Cross-Border Trade in Services) and Article 19 (General Exceptions) of Chapter 8 
(Investment), and to Article 2 (Security Exceptions) of Chapter 17 (Final Provisions).  
 
  
ARTICLE 12 
 
Principles on Access to and Use of the Internet for Electronic Commerce 
 
Subject to applicable policies, laws and regulations, the Parties recognise the 
benefits of consumers in their territories having the ability to:  
 
(a)  access  and  use  services  and  applications  of  a  consumer’s  choice 
available on the Internet, subject to reasonable network management;7  
 
                                                 
7 The Parties recognise that an Internet access service supplier that offers its subscribers certain content 
on an exclusive basis would not be acting contrary to this principle. 
7 
 (b)  connect the end-user devices of a consumer’s choice to the Internet, 
provided that such devices do not harm the network; and  
 
(c)  access  information  on  the  network  management  practices  of  a 
consumer’s Internet access service supplier. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
 
Cross-Border Transfer of Information by Electronic Means 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that each Party may have its own regulatory requirements 
concerning the transfer of information by electronic means. 
 
2.  Each Party shall allow the cross-border transfer of information by electronic 
means, including personal information, when this activity is for the conduct of the 
business of a covered person. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining 
measures inconsistent with paragraph 2 to achieve a legitimate public policy objective, 
provided that the measure: 
 
(a)  is not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary 
or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade; and  
 
(b)  does not impose restrictions on transfers of information greater than are 
required to achieve the objective. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14 
 
Internet Interconnection Charge Sharing 
 
The Parties recognise that a supplier seeking international Internet connection 
should be able to negotiate with suppliers of the other Party on a commercial basis. 
These  negotiations  may  include  negotiations  regarding  compensation  for  the 
establishment, operation and maintenance of facilities of the respective suppliers. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
 
Location of Computing Facilities 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that each Party may have its own regulatory requirements 
regarding the use of computing facilities, including requirements that seek to ensure the 
security and confidentiality of communications.  
 
2.  Neither Party shall require a covered person to use or locate computing facilities 
in that Party’s territory as a condition for conducting business in that territory. 
 
8 
 3.  Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining 
measures inconsistent with paragraph 2 to achieve a legitimate public policy objective, 
provided that the measure: 
 
(a)  is not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary 
or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade; and  
 
(b)  does  not  impose  restrictions  on  the  use  or  location  of  computing 
facilities greater than are required to achieve the objective. 
 
 
ARTICLE 16 
 
Unsolicited Commercial Electronic Messages 
 
1.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures regarding unsolicited commercial 
electronic messages that:  
 
(a)  require a supplier of unsolicited commercial electronic messages to 
facilitate the ability of a recipient to prevent ongoing reception of those 
messages;  
 
(b)  require the consent, as specified according to the laws and regulations 
of each Party, of a recipient to receive commercial electronic messages; 
or  
 
(c)  otherwise  provide  for  the  minimisation  of  unsolicited  commercial 
electronic messages. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide recourse against a supplier of unsolicited commercial 
electronic messages that does not comply with the measures adopted or maintained 
pursuant to paragraph 1.  
 
3.  The Parties shall endeavour to cooperate in appropriate cases of mutual concern 
regarding the regulation of unsolicited commercial electronic messages. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17 
 
Cooperation 
 
Recognising  the  global  nature  of  electronic  commerce,  the  Parties  shall 
endeavour to:  
 
(a)  work together to assist small and medium-sized enterprises8 to overcome 
obstacles to its use;  
 
                                                 
8 Including a micro-sized enterprise. 
9 
 (b)  exchange information and share experiences on regulations, policies, 
enforcement and compliance regarding electronic commerce, including: 
  
(i)  personal information protection;  
 
(ii)  online  consumer  protection,  including  means  for  consumer 
redress and building consumer confidence;  
 
(iii)  unsolicited commercial electronic messages;  
 
(iv)  security in electronic communications;  
 
(v)  authentication; and  
 
(vi)  e-government;  
 
(c)  exchange information and share views on consumer access to products 
and services offered online between the Parties;  
 
(d)  participate actively in regional and multilateral fora to promote the 
development of electronic commerce; and  
 
(e)  encourage  development  by  the  private  sector  of  methods  of  self-
regulation that foster electronic commerce, including codes of conduct, 
model contracts, guidelines and enforcement mechanisms. 
 
 
ARTICLE 18 
 
Cooperation on Cybersecurity Matters 
  
The Parties recognise the importance of:  
 
(a)  building  the  capabilities  of  their  national  entities  responsible  for 
computer security incident response; and  
 
(b)  using existing collaboration mechanisms to cooperate to identify and 
mitigate malicious intrusions or dissemination of malicious code that 
affect the electronic networks of the Parties.  
 
 
ARTICLE 19 
 
Source Code 
 
1.  Neither Party shall require the transfer of, or access to, source code of software 
owned by a person of the other Party, as a condition for the import, distribution, sale or 
use of such software, or of products containing such software, in its territory.  
 
10 
 2.  For the purposes of this Article, software subject to paragraph 1 is limited to 
mass-market software or products containing such software and does not include 
software used for critical infrastructure.  
 
3.  Nothing in this Article shall preclude:  
 
(a)  the inclusion or implementation of terms and conditions related to the 
provision of source code in commercially negotiated contracts; or  
 
(b)  a Party from requiring the modification of source code of software 
necessary for that software to comply with laws or regulations which are 
not inconsistent with this Agreement.  
 
4.  This Article shall not be construed to affect requirements that relate to patent 
applications or granted patents, including any orders made by a judicial authority in 
relation to patent disputes, subject to safeguards against unauthorised disclosure under 
the law or practice of a Party. 
 
 
 
11 
 