ANNEX  5E– 1 
 
SINGAPORE-AUSTRALIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 
Chapter 5 
 
TECHNICAL REGULATIONS AND SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY 
MEASURES 
 
 
SECTORAL ANNEX ON MEDICAL DEVICES 
 
 
Pursuant to Chapter 5 (Technical Regulations and Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures), the Parties agree to this Sectoral Annex on Medical Devices for the purpose 
of facilitating trade in medical devices between the Parties.  
 
The Parties have agreed as follows: 
 
 
Scope 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of technical 
regulations, standards, conformity assessment procedures, marketing authorisation1 and 
notification procedures of central government bodies that may affect trade in medical 
devices between the Parties. This Annex shall not apply to a technical specification 
prepared by a governmental entity for its production or consumption requirements or a 
sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
2. 
A Party’s obligations under this Annex shall apply to any product that the Party 
defines as a medical device pursuant to paragraph 3. For the purposes of this Annex, 
preparation of a technical regulation, standard, conformity assessment procedure or 
marketing authorisation includes, as appropriate the evaluation of the risks involved, 
the need to adopt a measure to address those risks, the review of relevant scientific or 
technical information, and the consideration of the characteristics or design of 
alternative approaches. 
 
 
Definitions 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a) 
“marketing authorisation” means the process or processes by which a 
Party approves or registers a product in order to authorise its marketing, 
distribution or sale in the Party’s territory. The process or processes may 
be described in a Party’s laws or regulations in various ways, including 
“marketing authorisation”, “authorisation”, “approval”, “registration”, 
“sanitary authorisation”, “sanitary registration” and “sanitary approval” 
for a product. Marketing authorisation does not include notification 
procedures; and 
                                                 
1 The application of this Annex to marketing authorisations is without prejudice to whether a marketing 
authorisation meets the definition of a standard, technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
ANNEX  5E– 2 
 
 
(b) 
“measure” includes any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or 
practice. 
 
 
Obligations 
 
4. 
Each Party shall define the scope of the products subject to its laws and 
regulations for medical devices in its territory and make that information publicly 
available. 
 
5. 
Recognising that each Party is required to define the scope of products covered 
by this Annex pursuant to paragraph 3, each Party should define the scope of products 
subject to its laws and regulations for medical devices in a manner that is consistent 
with the meaning assigned to the term “medical device” in the Definition of the Terms 
‘Medical Device’ and ‘In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) Medical Device’ endorsed by the 
Global Harmonization Task Force on May 16, 2012, as may be amended. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall identify the agency or agencies that are authorised to regulate 
medical devices in its territory and make that information publicly available. 
 
7. 
If more than one agency is authorised to regulate medical devices within the 
territory of a Party, that Party shall examine whether there is overlap or duplication in 
the scope of those authorities and to take reasonable measures to eliminate unnecessary 
duplication of any regulatory requirements resulting for medical devices. 
 
8. 
The Parties shall seek to collaborate through relevant international initiatives, 
such as those aimed at harmonisation, as well as regional initiatives that support of 
those international initiatives, as appropriate, to improve the alignment of their 
respective regulations and regulatory activities for medical devices. 
 
9. 
When developing or implementing regulations for marketing authorisation of 
medical devices, each Party shall consider relevant scientific or technical guidance 
documents developed through international collaborative efforts. Each Party is 
encouraged to consider regionally-developed scientific or technical guidance 
documents that are aligned with international efforts. 
 
10. 
Each Party shall observe the obligations set out in Articles 2.1 and 5.1.1 of the 
WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade with respect to a marketing 
authorisation, notification procedure or elements of either that the Party prepares, 
adopts or applies for medical devices and that do not fall within the definition of a 
technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
11. 
Recognising that different medical devices pose different levels of risk, each 
Party shall classify medical devices based on risk, taking into account scientifically 
relevant factors. Each Party shall ensure that, when it regulates a medical device, it 
regulates the device consistent with the classification the Party has assigned to that 
device. 
 
ANNEX  5E– 3 
 
12. 
Each Party recognises that the applicant is responsible for providing sufficient 
information to a Party for it to make a regulatory determination on a medical device. 
 
13. 
Each Party shall make a determination whether to grant marketing authorisation 
for a specific medical device on the basis of: 
 
(a) 
information, including, where appropriate, clinical data, on safety and 
efficacy; 
 
(b) 
information on performance, design and manufacturing quality of the 
medical device; 
 
(c) 
labelling information related to safety, efficacy, and use of the device; 
and 
 
(d) 
other matters that may directly affect the health or safety of the user of 
the device. 
 
To this end, neither Party shall require sale data, pricing or related financial data 
concerning the marketing of the medical device. 
 
14. 
Each Party shall administer any marketing authorisation process that it 
maintains for medical devices in a timely, reasonable, objective, transparent and 
impartial manner, and identify and manage any conflicts of interest in order to mitigate 
any associated risks. 
 
(a) 
Each Party shall provide an applicant that requests marketing 
authorisation for a medical device with its determination within a 
reasonable period of time. The Parties recognise that the reasonable 
period of time required to make a marketing authorisation determination 
may be affected by factors such as the novelty of a device or regulatory 
implications that may arise. 
 
(b) 
If a Party determines that a marketing authorisation application for a 
medical device under review in its jurisdiction has deficiencies that have 
led or will lead to a decision not to authorise its marketing, that Party 
shall inform the applicant that requests marketing authorisation and 
provide reasons why the application is deficient. 
 
(c) 
If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a medical device, the 
Party shall ensure that any marketing authorisation determination is 
subject to an appeal or review process that may be invoked at the request 
of the applicant. For greater certainty, the Party may maintain an appeal 
or review process that is either internal to the regulatory body 
responsible for the marketing authorisation determination, such as a 
dispute resolution or review process, or external to the regulatory body. 
 
(d) 
If a Party requires periodic re-authorisation for a medical device that has 
previously received marketing authorisation from the Party, the Party 
shall allow the medical device to remain on its market under the 
ANNEX  5E– 4 
 
conditions of the previous marketing authorisation pending a decision 
on the periodic re-authorisation, unless a Party identifies a significant 
health or safety concern. 
 
15. 
When developing regulatory requirements for medical devices, a Party shall 
consider its available resources and technical capacity in order to minimise the 
implementation of requirements that could: 
 
(a) 
inhibit the effectiveness of procedures for ensuring the safety, efficacy 
or manufacturing quality of medical devices; or 
 
(a) 
lead to substantial delays in marketing authorisation regarding medical 
devices for sale on that Party’s market. 
 
16. 
Neither Party shall require that a medical device receive a marketing 
authorisation from a regulatory authority in the country of manufacture as a condition 
for the medical device to receive marketing authorisation from that Party. 
 
17. 
For greater certainty, a Party may accept a prior marketing authorisation that is 
issued by another regulatory authority as evidence that a medical device may meet its 
own requirements. If there are regulatory resource limitations, a Party may require a 
marketing authorisation from one of a number of reference countries established and 
made public by that Party as a condition for the medical device’s marketing 
authorisation from that Party.  
 
18. 
If a Party requires a manufacturer or supplier of a medical device to indicate 
information on the product’s label, the Party shall permit the manufacturer or supplier 
to indicate the required information by relabelling the product or by using 
supplementary labelling of the device in accordance with the Party’s domestic 
requirements after importation but prior to offering the device for sale or supply in the 
Party’s territory. 
 
 
 
 
 
