SINGAPORE-AUSTRALIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 
Chapter 5 
 
TECHNICAL REGULATIONS AND SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY 
MEASURES 
 
 
SECTORAL ANNEX ON COSMETIC PRODUCTS 
 
 
Pursuant to Chapter 5 (Technical Regulations and Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures), the Parties agree to this Sectoral Annex on Cosmetics Products for the 
purpose of facilitating trade in cosmetic products between the Parties.  
 
The Parties have agreed as follows: 
 
 
Scope  
 
1.  This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of technical 
regulations, standards, conformity assessment procedures, marketing authorisation1 and 
notification procedures of central government bodies that may affect trade in cosmetic 
products between the Parties. This Annex shall not apply to a technical specification 
prepared by a governmental entity for its production or consumption requirements or a 
sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
2.  A Party’s obligations under this Annex shall apply to any product that the Party 
defines as a cosmetic product pursuant to paragraph 3. For the purposes of this Annex, 
preparation of a technical regulation, standard, conformity assessment procedure or 
marketing authorisation includes, as appropriate, the evaluation of the risks involved, 
the need to adopt a measure to address those risks, the review of relevant scientific or 
technical  information,  and  the  consideration  of  the  characteristics  or  design  of 
alternative approaches. 
 
 
Definitions 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Annex:  
 
(a)  “marketing authorisation” means the process or processes by which a 
Party approves or registers a product in order to authorise its marketing, 
distribution or sale in the Party’s territory. The process or processes may 
be described in a Party’s laws or regulations in various ways, including 
“marketing authorisation”, “authorisation”, “approval”, “registration”, 
“sanitary authorisation”, “sanitary registration” and “sanitary approval” 
for a product. Marketing authorisation does not include notification 
procedures; 
                                                 
1 The application of this Annex to marketing authorisations is without prejudice to whether a marketing 
authorisation meets the definition of a standard, technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
ANNEX  5D– 1 
  
(b)  “measure”  includes  any  law,  regulation,  procedure,  requirement  or 
practice; and 
 
(c)  “post-market surveillance” means procedures taken by a Party after a 
product has been placed on its market to enable the Party to monitor or 
address compliance with the Party’s domestic requirements for products. 
 
 
Obligations  
 
4.  Each Party shall define the scope of the products subject to its laws and 
regulations for cosmetic products in its territory and make such information publicly 
available. 
 
5.  Recognising that each Party is required to define the scope of products covered 
by this Annex pursuant to paragraph 3, for the purposes of this Annex, a cosmetic 
product may include a product that is intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled, sprayed 
on or otherwise applied to the human body including the mucous membrane of the oral 
cavity and teeth, to  cleanse, beautify, protect,  promote attractiveness  or alter the 
appearance. 
 
6.  Each Party shall identify the agency or agencies that are authorised to regulate 
cosmetic products in its territory and make such information publicly available. 
 
7.  If more than one agency is authorised to regulate cosmetic products within the 
territory of a Party, that Party shall examine whether there is overlap or duplication in 
the scope of those authorities and eliminate unnecessary duplication of any regulatory 
requirements resulting for cosmetic products. 
 
8.  The Parties shall seek to collaborate through relevant international initiatives, 
such as those aimed at harmonisation, as well as regional initiatives that support of 
those  international  initiatives,  as  appropriate,  to  improve  the  alignment  of  their 
respective regulations and regulatory activities for cosmetic products.  
 
9.  When developing or implementing regulations for cosmetic products, each 
Party shall consider relevant scientific or technical guidance documents developed 
through  international  collaborative  efforts.  Each  Party  is  encouraged  to  consider 
regionally-developed scientific or technical guidance documents that are aligned with 
international efforts. 
 
10.  Each Party shall observe the obligations set out in Articles 2.1 and 5.1.1 of the 
WTO  Agreement  on  Technical  Barriers  to  Trade  with  respect  to  a  marketing 
authorisation, notification procedure or elements of either that the Party prepares, 
adopts or applies for cosmetic products and that do not fall within the definition of a 
technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
11.  Each Party shall ensure that it applies a risk-based approach to the regulation of 
cosmetic products. 
 
ANNEX  5D– 2 
 12.  In applying a risk-based approach in regulating cosmetic products, each Party 
shall take into account that cosmetic products are generally expected to pose less 
potential  risk  to  human  health  or  safety  than  medical  devices  or  pharmaceutical 
products. 
 
13.  Neither  Party  shall  conduct  separate  marketing  authorisation  processes  or 
subprocesses for cosmetic products that differ only with respect to shade extensions or 
fragrance variants, unless the Party identifies a significant human health or safety 
concern. 
 
14.  Each  Party  shall  administer  any  marketing  authorisation  process  that  it 
maintains for cosmetics products in a timely, reasonable, objective, transparent and 
impartial manner, and identify and manage any conflicts of interest in order to mitigate 
any associated risks. 
 
(a)  If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product, that 
Party  shall  provide  an  applicant  with  its  determination  within  a 
reasonable period of time. 
 
(b)  If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product and it 
determines that a marketing authorisation application for a cosmetic 
product under review in its jurisdiction has deficiencies that have led or 
will lead to a decision not to authorise its marketing, that Party shall 
inform the applicant that requests marketing authorisation and provide 
reasons why the application is deficient. 
 
(c)  If a Party requires a marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product, the 
Party shall ensure that any marketing authorisation determination is 
subject to an appeal or review process that may be invoked at the request 
of the applicant. For greater certainty, the Party may maintain an appeal 
or  review  process  that  is  either  internal  to  the  regulatory  body 
responsible for the marketing authorisation determination, such as a 
dispute resolution or review process, or external to the regulatory body. 
 
(d)  If a Party has granted marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product in 
its territory, the Party shall not subject the product to periodic re-
assessment  procedures  as  a  condition  of  retaining  its  marketing 
authorisation. 
 
15.  If a Party maintains a marketing authorisation process for cosmetic products, 
that Party shall consider replacing this process with other mechanisms such as voluntary 
or mandatory notification and post-market surveillance. 
 
16.  When developing regulatory requirements for cosmetic products, each Party 
shall consider its available resources and technical capacity in order to minimise the 
implementation of requirements that could: 
   
(a)  inhibit  the  effectiveness  of  procedures  for  ensuring  the  safety  or 
manufacturing quality of cosmetic products; or 
 
ANNEX  5D– 3 
 (b)  lead to substantial delays in marketing authorisation regarding cosmetic 
products for sale on that Party’s market. 
 
17.  Neither Party shall require the submission of marketing information, including 
with respect to prices or cost, as a condition for the product receiving marketing 
authorisation. 
 
18.  Neither Party shall require a cosmetic product to be labelled with a marketing 
authorisation or notification number. 
 
19.  Neither  Party  shall  require  that  a  cosmetic  product  receive  marketing 
authorisation from a regulatory authority in the country of manufacture, as a condition 
for the product receiving marketing authorisation from that Party. For greater certainty, 
this provision does not prohibit a Party from accepting a prior marketing authorisation 
issued by another regulatory authority as evidence that a product may meet its own 
requirements. 
 
20.  Neither  Party  shall  require  that  a  cosmetic  product  be  accompanied  by  a 
certificate of free sale as a condition of marketing, distribution or sale in the Party’s 
territory. 
 
21.  If a Party requires a manufacturer or supplier of a cosmetic product to indicate 
information on the product’s label, the Party shall permit the manufacturer or supplier 
to  indicate  the  required  information  by  relabelling  the  product  or  by  using 
supplementary  labelling  of  the  product  in  accordance  with  the  Party’s  domestic 
requirements after importation but prior to offering the product for sale or supply in the 
Party’s territory. 
 
22.  Neither Party shall require that a cosmetic product be tested on animals to 
determine the safety of that cosmetic product, unless there is no validated alternative 
method available to assess safety. A Party may, however, consider the results of animal 
testing to determine the safety of a cosmetic product. 
 
23.  If  a  Party  prepares  or  adopts  good  manufacturing  practice  guidelines  for 
cosmetic products, it shall use relevant international standards for cosmetic products, 
or the relevant parts of them, as a basis for its guidelines unless those international 
standards or relevant parts would be an ineffective or inappropriate means for the 
fulfilment of the legitimate objectives pursued. 
 
24.  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  share,  subject  to  its  laws  and  regulations, 
information from post-market surveillance of cosmetic products. 
 
25.  Each Party shall endeavour to share information on its findings or the findings 
of its relevant institutions regarding cosmetic ingredients. 
 
26.  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  avoid  re-testing  or  re-evaluating  cosmetic 
products that differ only with respect to shade extensions or fragrance variants, unless 
conducted for human health or safety purposes. 
 
 
ANNEX  5D– 4 
 