1 
 
11 
MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS  
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Scope and Definitions 
 
1. 
This Chapter applies to measures affecting the movement of natural persons of a 
Party into the territory of the other Party where such persons are:  
  
(a) 
business visitors;  
 
(b) 
contractual service suppliers; 
 
(c) 
independent executives; 
 
(d) 
installers and servicers; and 
 
(e) 
intra-corporate transferees. 
 
2. 
This Chapter reflects the Parties’ mutual commitment to enhance the mobility 
of natural persons of either Party engaged in the conduct of trade and investment 
between the Parties, by facilitating temporary entry and establishing streamlined, 
transparent immigration clearance procedures for natural persons. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: 
 
(a) 
“business visitors” means natural persons of a Party who are:  
 
(i) 
seeking to travel to the other Party for business purposes and who 
must not engage in making direct sales to the general public or 
in supplying goods or services themselves;  
 
(ii) 
service sellers;  
  
(iii) 
investors of a Party or employees of an investor (who are 
managers, executives or specialists as defined under Article 
1.3(g) (Scope and Definitions)) seeking temporary entry to 
establish an investment; or  
 
(iv) 
seeking temporary entry for the purposes of negotiating the sale 
of goods where such negotiations do not involve direct sales to 
the general public; 
 
(b) 
“contractual service suppliers” means natural persons of a Party who 
have trade, technical or professional skills and experience; and 
 
(i) 
are employees of a service supplier or an enterprise of a Party 
which has concluded a contract for the supply of a service within 
2 
 
the other Party and which does not have a commercial presence 
within the other Party; or  
 
(ii) 
are engaged by an enterprise lawfully and actively operating in a 
Party in order to supply a service under a contract within that 
Party; and 
 
who are assessed as having the necessary qualifications, skills and work 
experience accepted as meeting the domestic standard in the other Party 
for their nominated occupation; 
 
(c) 
“enterprise” means any entity constituted or organised under applicable 
law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately or governmentally 
owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole 
proprietorship, joint venture, association or similar organisation; 
 
(d) 
“immigration formality” means a visa, employment pass, or other 
document or electronic authority granting a natural person of a Party the 
right to reside or work in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(e) 
For Australia, “independent executives” means natural persons of a 
Party whose work responsibilities match the description set out below 
and who intend, or are responsible for, the establishment in the other 
Party of a new branch or subsidiary of an enterprise which has its head 
of operations in the territory of the originating Party and which has no 
other representative, branch or subsidiary in the other Party. Independent 
executives will be responsible for the entire or a substantial part of the 
enterprise’s operations in the other Party, receiving general supervision 
or direction principally from higher level executives, the board of 
directors or stockholders of the enterprise, including directing the 
enterprise or a department or subdivision of it; supervising and 
controlling the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial 
employees; and having the authority to establish goals and policies of 
the department or subdivision of the enterprise. 
 
For Singapore, “independent executives” means natural persons of a 
Party with a local business presence seeking to: 
 
(i)  
carry on substantial trade in goods or services principally 
between the territory of the Party of the natural person and the 
territory of the other Party into which entry is sought; or 
 
(ii)  
establish, develop, administer, or provide advice or key technical 
services to the operation of an investment to which the natural 
person or the natural person’s enterprise has committed, or is in 
the process of committing, a substantial amount of capital, in a 
capacity that is supervisory, executive, or involves essential 
skills; 
 
3 
 
(f) 
“installers and servicers” means natural persons of a Party who are 
installers or servicers of machinery and/or equipment, where such 
installation and/or servicing by the supplying company is a condition of 
purchase under contract of the said machinery or equipment, and who 
must not perform services which are not related to the service activity 
which is the subject of the contract;  
 
(g) 
“intra-corporate transferees” means employees of a service supplier, 
investor or enterprise of a Party established in the territory of the other 
Party through a branch, subsidiary or affiliate, who have been so 
employed for a period of not less than one year immediately preceding 
the date of the application for temporary entry, and who are: 
 
(i) 
managers – natural persons within an organisation who primarily 
direct the organisation or a department or sub-division of the 
organisation, supervise and control the work of other 
supervisory, professional or managerial employees, have the 
authority to hire and fire or take other personnel actions (such as 
promotion or leave authorisation), and exercise discretionary 
authority over day-to-day operations. This does not include a 
first-line supervisor, unless the employees supervised are 
professionals, nor does this include an employee who primarily 
performs tasks necessary for the provision of the service or 
operation of an investment; 
 
(ii) 
executives – natural persons within an organisation who 
primarily direct the management of the organisation, exercise 
wide latitude in decision-making, and receive only general 
supervision or direction from higher level executives, the board 
of directors, or stockholders of the business. An executive would 
not directly perform tasks related to the actual provision of the 
service or the operation of an investment; or 
 
(iii) 
specialists – natural persons within an organisation who possess 
knowledge at an advanced level of expertise and who possess 
proprietary knowledge of the organisation’s service, research 
equipment, techniques, or management. Specialists may include, 
but are not limited to, members of a licensed profession; 
 
(h) 
“measure” includes any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or 
practice; 
 
(i) 
“natural person of a Party” means: 
 
(i) 
for Australia, a natural person who is an Australian citizen as 
defined in the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 as amended from 
time to time, or any successor legislation;  
 
(ii) 
for Singapore, a person who is a citizen of Singapore within the 
meaning of its Constitution and its domestic laws; or  
4 
 
 
(iii) 
a permanent resident of either Party;1 
 
(j) 
“service sellers” means natural persons of a Party who are sales 
representatives of a service supplier of that Party and are seeking 
temporary entry to the other Party for the purpose of negotiating the sale 
of services for that service supplier, where such representatives will not 
be engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying 
services directly; and 
 
(k) 
“temporary entry” means entry by a business visitor, a contractual 
service supplier, an independent executive, an installer or servicer, or an 
intra-corporate transferee, as the case may be, without the intent to 
establish permanent residence and for the purpose of engaging in 
activities which are clearly related to their respective business purposes. 
Additionally, in the case of a business visitor, the salaries of and any 
related payments to such a visitor should be paid entirely by the service 
supplier or enterprise which employs that visitor in the visitor’s home 
country. 
 
4. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to measures affecting natural persons of 
either Party seeking access to the employment market of a Party, nor shall it apply to 
measures regarding citizenship, residence or employment on a permanent basis.  
 
 
Section 1: Short-Term Temporary Entry 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
Business Visitors  
 
 
A Party shall grant temporary entry to a business visitor of the other Party who 
otherwise meets its criteria for the grant of an immigration formality for a period of up 
to three months. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Installers and Servicers 
 
 
A Party shall grant temporary entry to an installer and servicer of the other Party 
who otherwise meets its criteria for the grant of an immigration formality for a period 
of up to three months. 
 
 
Section 2: Long-Term Temporary Entry 
                                                 
1 Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, a Party shall grant the benefits of this Chapter to a permanent 
resident of the other Party provided that the permanent resident satisfies all the administrative, legal, 
repatriation and other requirements as may be imposed by the granting Party.  
5 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Contractual Service Suppliers 
 
 
A Party shall grant temporary entry to a contractual service supplier of the other 
Party who otherwise meets its criteria for the grant of an immigration formality for a 
period of up to two years with the possibility of further stay. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
Independent Executives 
 
 
A Party shall grant temporary entry to an independent executive of the other 
Party who otherwise meets its criteria for the grant of an immigration formality for a 
period of up to two years. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
Intra-Corporate Transferees 
 
 
A Party shall grant temporary entry to an intra-corporate transferee of the other 
Party who otherwise meets its criteria for the grant of an immigration formality  
 
(a) 
in the case of Singapore, for an initial period of up to three years which 
may be extended for periods of up to three years at a time for a total term 
not exceeding 15 years; and 
 
(b) 
in the case of Australia, for an initial period of up to four years which 
may be extended for further periods of up to four years at a time for a 
total term not exceeding 15 years. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
Provision of Information 
 
 
A Party shall: 
 
(a) 
publish or otherwise make available to the other Party such information 
as will enable the other Party to become acquainted with its measures 
relating to this Chapter; and   
 
(b) 
no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement, prepare, publish or otherwise make available in its own 
territory, and in the territory of the other Party, explanatory material 
regarding the requirements for temporary entry under this Chapter in 
6 
 
such a manner as will enable natural persons of the other Party to 
become acquainted with them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
Dispute Settlement 
 
1. 
A Party may not initiate proceedings under Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) 
regarding a refusal to grant temporary entry under this Chapter unless: 
 
(a) 
the matter involves a pattern of practice; and 
 
(b) 
its natural persons affected have exhausted the available domestic 
administrative remedies regarding the particular matter. 
 
2. 
The remedies referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall be deemed to be exhausted if a 
final determination in the matter has not been issued by the competent authority within 
one year of the institution of proceedings for domestic administrative remedies, 
including proceedings by way of review, and the failure to issue a determination is not 
attributable to delays caused by the natural person. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
Immigration Measures 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate 
the entry of natural persons of the other Party into, or their temporary stay in, its 
territory, including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure 
the orderly movement of natural persons across its borders, provided that such measures 
are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits accruing to the other 
Party under the terms of this Chapter. 
 
2. 
The sole fact that a Party requires natural persons of the other Party to obtain an 
immigration formality shall not be regarded as nullifying or impairing the benefits 
accruing to any Party under this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
 
Immigration Requirements and Procedures 
 
1. 
For Australia, temporary entry of a natural person who is seeking temporary 
entry pursuant to this Chapter is subject to employer sponsorship. Full details of 
employer sponsorship requirements, including the list of eligible occupations for 
sponsorship, are available on the website of the Australian government department 
responsible for immigration matters. Employer sponsorship requirements and eligible 
occupations may change from time to time. 
 
7 
 
2. 
For Singapore, temporary entry of a natural person who is seeking temporary 
entry pursuant to this Chapter is subject to employer sponsorship. Full details of 
employer sponsorship requirements, including the list of eligible occupations for 
sponsorship, and the requirements for Dependant’s Passes, are available on the website 
of the Singapore government department responsible for immigration matters. 
Employer sponsorship requirements and eligible occupations may change from time to 
time. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
 
Licensing Requirements 
 
The sole fact that a Party grants temporary entry to a natural person of the other 
Party pursuant to this Chapter shall not be construed to exempt that natural person from 
meeting any applicable licensing or other requirements, including any mandatory codes 
of conduct, to practise a profession or otherwise engage in business activities. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
 
Expeditious Application Procedures  
 
1. 
A Party shall expeditiously process complete applications for immigration 
formalities from natural persons of the other Party, including further immigration 
formality requests or extensions thereof, particularly applications from members of 
professions for which mutual recognition arrangements have been concluded. 
 
2. 
In relation to a complete application for an immigration formality covered by 
paragraph 1 the granting Party shall both make a decision and notify the natural person 
or its representative of that decision prior to the natural person’s arrival in its territory 
subject to the granting Party’s immigration formality processing time service standards. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
 
Notification of Outcome of Application 
 
A Party shall notify the applicants for temporary entry, either directly or through 
their prospective employers, of the outcome of their applications, including the period 
of stay and other conditions. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14 
 
Online Lodgement and Processing  
 
As soon as possible after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Parties 
shall provide facilities for online lodgement and processing:  
 
8 
 
(a) 
in the case of Australia, of immigration formalities; and  
 
(b) 
in the case of Singapore, of employment passes which shall be applied 
for by the prospective employers. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
 
Resolution of Problems 
 
The relevant authorities of both Parties shall endeavour to favourably resolve 
any specific or general problems (within the framework of their domestic laws, 
regulations and other similar measures governing the temporary entry of natural 
persons) which may arise from the implementation and administration of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 16 
 
Labour Market Testing 
 
Neither Party shall require labour market testing, labour certification tests or 
other procedures of similar effect as a condition for temporary entry in respect of 
business visitors, contractual service suppliers, installers and servicers, independent 
executives and intra-corporate transferees on whom the benefits of this Chapter are 
conferred. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17 
 
Immigration Formality Requirements 
 
1. 
Australia shall accord to natural persons of Singapore conditions of entry and 
processing requirements relating to its Electronic Travel Authority (“ETA”) no less 
favourable than those accorded to natural persons of any other country eligible under 
the ETA or equivalent processing system for immigration formalities.   
 
2. 
Singapore shall waive visa requirements for natural persons of Australia, 
provided that such persons are not natural persons of a non-Party for which visa-
requirements are imposed for entry into Singapore. 
 
3. 
This Article shall not apply to permanent residents of either Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 18 
 
Employment of Spouses and Dependants 
 
For natural persons of either Party who have been granted the right to temporary 
entry under this Chapter as contractual service suppliers, independent executives or 
intra-corporate transferees and who have a spouse and dependant, a Party shall, upon 
9 
 
application, grant the accompanying spouse or dependant who otherwise meets its 
criteria for the grant of an immigration formality the right of temporary entry, 
movement and work for an equal period to that granted to the natural person. For greater 
certainty, grant of temporary entry and work under this Article is subject to the 
accompanying spouse or dependant meeting the granting Party’s prescribed application 
procedures and requirements for the relevant immigration formality and meet all 
relevant eligibility requirements for temporary entry and work or extension of 
temporary stay and work. 
 
 
ARTICLE 19 
 
Relation to Other Chapters 
 
1. 
Except for this Chapter, Chapter 1 (Objectives and General Definitions), 
Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement), Chapter 17 (Final Provisions) and Article 9 
(Transparency) of Chapter 7 (Cross-Border Trade in Services), no provision of this 
Agreement shall impose any obligation on a Party regarding its immigration measures. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to impose obligations or 
commitments with respect to other Chapters of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
