 
Chapter 14 
Cooperation, Promotion and Enhancement of Trade Relations  
 
 
Section A: General Provisions 
 
 
Article 14.1: General Objective 
 
The  objective  of  this  Chapter  is  to  implement  programs  of  mutual 
assistance in areas that will allow a high level of benefits derived from trade 
relations  and  the  promotion  of  investment.    This  objective  shall  be 
accomplished through the framework set out in this Chapter for present and 
future development of cooperative relations between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 14.2: Specific Objectives 
 
In this Chapter, priority shall be given to the following objectives: 
 
(a)  promoting economic and social development; 
 
(b)  strengthening the capabilities and competitiveness of the Parties 
to  maximize  the  opportunities  and  benefits  derived  from  this 
Agreement; 
 
(c)  increasing the level and depth of cooperative activities among 
the Parties in areas of mutual interest, with special attention to 
economic,  trade,  financial,  technological,  educational  and 
cultural aspects; 
 
(d)  encouraging the presence of the Parties and their goods and 
services in their respective markets in Asia Pacific and Latin 
America; 
 
(e)  stimulating productive synergies, creating new opportunities for 
trade  and  investment,  and  promoting  competitiveness  and 
innovation; 
 
(f)  accomplishing a greater impact in scientific, technological and 
knowledge transfer, research and development, innovation, and 
entrepreneurship; 
 
(g)  increasing the export capacity of small and medium enterprises 
(SMEs); 
 
(h)  generating a greater and deeper level of supply chain linkages; 
and 
 
9 6 
 (i)  reinforcing  and  expanding  cooperation,  collaboration,  mutual 
interchanges and good practices in areas of mutual interest. 
 
 
Section B: Cooperation Areas 
 
Without prejudice to the possibility of extending cooperation to other 
areas, the Parties agree to set as priority the areas in this Section, with the 
aim of accomplishing the objectives of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 14.3: Small and Medium Enterprises  
 
1.   The Parties shall support the enhancement of SMEs’ competitiveness 
and their insertion in the international markets on the basis of strengthening 
their productive capabilities. 
  
2.   Cooperation shall include, among others, activities to: 
 
(a)  design and execute mechanisms to encourage partnerships and 
development of productive linkages; and   
 
(b)  develop  SMEs’  competitiveness  through  the  exchange  of 
information between the relevant institutions of both Parties and 
such other mechanisms as may be agreed by these institutions. 
 
 
Article  14.4:  Promotion  of  Science  and  Technology,  Innovation, 
Technology and Knowledge Transfer, and Entrepreneurship  
 
1.   The  Parties  recognize  the  importance  of  the  promotion  and  the 
facilitation  of  cooperation  activities  in  science  and  technology,  innovation, 
technology and knowledge transfer, and entrepreneurship, aiming to achieve 
a greater social and economic development.  The Parties shall also consider 
the access to and transfer of knowledge and technology between them at 
national (including different stakeholders such as universities, private sector, 
and government) and international levels. 
 
2.   The Parties shall encourage and facilitate, as appropriate, the following 
activities, among others: 
 
(a)  supporting  the  participation  of  public,  private  and  social 
organizations, including universities, research and development 
institutions  and  non-governmental  organizations,  in  the 
execution  of  programs  and  projects  related  with  the  areas 
mentioned in paragraph 1;  
 
(b)  exchange of specialists, researchers and university professors;  
 
9 7 
 (c)  apprenticeship  programs  for  professional  training  and 
instruction; 
 
(d)  joint  or  coordinated  implementation  of  research  and/or 
technological  development  programs  and  projects  that  link 
centers for research industry; 
 
(e)  information exchange on scientific and technological research; 
 
(f)  development of joint cooperation activities in third countries, as 
may be agreed by the Parties; 
 
(g)  granting scholarships for studies of professional specialization 
and intermediate studies of technical instruction; 
 
(h)  organizing seminars, workshops and conferences;  
 
(i)  exchanging or sharing of equipment subject to the agreement of 
both Parties; and 
 
(j)  promoting  public/private  sector partnerships  in  support  of the 
development of innovative products, processes and services.  
 
 
Article 14.5: Export Promotion and Attraction of Investments  
 
1.   For  the  purpose  of  reaching  greater  benefits  arising  from  this 
Agreement, the Parties recognize the importance of supporting the existing 
programs related to export and investment promotion, and to launch new 
ones, as well as to enhance both Parties’ investment climates. 
 
2.  Cooperation shall include, among others, activities to: 
 
(a)  strengthen  the  export  capacity,  through  training  and  existing 
technical assistance programs;  
 
(b)  establish  and  develop  mechanisms  related  with  market 
research,  including  exchange  of  information  and  access  to 
international databases;  
 
(c)  create  exchange  programs  for  exporters  in  order  to  provide 
knowledge of the markets of each Party; 
 
(d)  promote greater participation of SMEs in exports;  
 
(e)  support the export and investment promotion activities between 
the Parties;  
 
(f)  support  entrepreneurship  processes  as  an  instrument  to 
strengthen the export capacity and promote investment;  
9 8 
  
(g)  promote  the  implementation  of  research  and  development, 
technological  and  innovation  programs  with  the  objective  of 
increasing the export supply and encouraging investment;  
 
(h)  promote joint venture opportunities between both Parties’ private 
sectors; and 
 
(i)  promote simplified administrative procedures. 
 
 
Article 14.6: Culture, Sports and Recreation Activities  
 
1.  The Parties recognize the importance and significance of arts, culture, 
sports and recreation as means of consolidation and promotion of partnership 
among the Parties.  In this framework, the Parties shall undertake cooperation 
in these areas with the purpose of enhancing mutual understanding, fostering 
balanced  exchanges  and  activities  between  individuals,  institutions  and 
organizations representing civil society. 
 
2.   The  Parties  shall  encourage  and  facilitate  the  following  activities, 
among others: 
 
(a)  promote arts, cultural and information exchanges between the 
Parties;  
 
(b)  encourage arts, cultural, recreational and sports events between 
the Parties;  
 
(c)  establish the possibility of cooperation between arts, cultural, 
sports and recreational agencies, institutions and associations of 
both Parties;  
 
(d)  promote the exchange of goods and services related to arts, 
cultural, sports and recreational activities;  
 
(e)  provide a platform for athletes to travel to, and for training and 
competing in, the territory of the other Party;  
 
(f)  support activities that raise awareness of artistic works;  
 
(g)  promote  the  exchange  of  experiences  with  respect  to  the 
conservation and restoration of national heritage, protection of 
archaeological monuments and cultural heritage;  
 
(h)  encourage  the  exchange  and  training  of  professionals  and 
technicians,  including  coaches,  players,  sports  medicine 
personnel and special needs sports personnel;  
 
9 9 
 (i)  exchange visits to review arts, cultural, sports and recreational 
facilities and share experiences in the area of implementation, 
developing, maintenance and operation of these facilities;  
 
(j)  exchange  experience  on  management  of  different  sports 
disciplines; and 
 
(k)  promote cooperation in audio-visual and media sectors, through 
joint initiatives in training, as well as audio-visual development, 
production and distribution activities, including the educational 
and cultural fields.  
 
 
Article 14.7: Agro-Industrial Cooperation  
 
1.   The  Parties  shall  encourage  and  facilitate  cooperation  in  the  food 
industry and agribusiness.   
 
2.   The  Parties  shall  facilitate  partnerships  between  the  public  and/or 
private sectors for co-development and process improvements pertaining to 
the food industry and the agro-industry. 
 
 
Article 14.8: Environmental Cooperation 
 
1.   The Parties recognize the importance of contributing globally to the 
protection of the environment and, accordingly, reaffirm their commitments 
and obligations under multilateral environmental agreements to which they 
are parties. 
 
2.   The Parties recognize the importance of strengthening capacities to 
protect  the  environment  and  to  promote  sustainable  development,  in 
accordance  with  their  efforts  of  strengthening  their  trade  and  investment 
relations.    Accordingly,  the  Parties  agree  to  cooperate  on  environmental 
matters  of  mutual  interest  and  benefit,  taking  into  account  their  national 
priorities and available resources.  Cooperative activities may be in areas 
including, but not limited to, the promotion of:  
 
(a)  green markets and clean technologies; and 
 
(b)  sustainable environmental management. 
 
 
Article 14.9: Labour Cooperation 
 
1.   The Parties recognize the importance of labour matters, which must go 
hand in hand with economic development, and share a similar commitment to 
uphold labour standards in the context of global economic development and 
trade liberalization. 
 
10 0 
 2.   The Parties reaffirm their commitment to a high standard of labour 
laws, policies and practices and to seek to cooperate in the promotion of 
employment  and  better  understanding  and  observance  of  the  principles 
embodied  in  the  International  Labour  Organization  Declaration  of 
Fundamental  Principles  and  Rights  at  Work  and  its  Follow-up  (1998).  
Accordingly,  the  Parties  agree  to  cooperate  on  labour  matters  of  mutual 
interest and benefit, taking into account their national priorities and available 
resources.  Cooperative activities may be in areas including, but not limited to: 
 
(a)  skills development and employability; 
 
(b)  occupational safety and health; 
 
(c)  industrial relations and labour-management cooperation; and 
 
(d)  strengthening of institutional capacities. 
 
 
Article 14.10: Other Cooperation Areas  
 
  Additionally, the Parties shall engage in the promotion of the following 
cooperation areas: 
 
(a)  Health:  Cooperation in  the  health area  shall include,  among 
others, activities to:  
 
i.  develop  efficient  health  systems,  train  sufficient  health 
workforce, develop fair financing mechanisms and social 
protection schemes;  
 
ii.  promote  primary  health  care  and  prevention  through 
integrated approaches and actions involving other policy 
sectors;  
 
iii.  promote  information  exchanges  about  policies,  training 
programs, and product manufacturing, among others; 
 
iv.  promote the use, application and training of new health 
technologies; and 
 
v.  encourage the development of research centers focused 
in the production of high-quality technologies.  
 
(b)  Infrastructure: Ports, Airports and Roads: Cooperation in the 
ports, airports and roads shall include, among others, activities 
to:  
 
i.  design, restructure and modernize infrastructure related 
to urban planning, air, maritime, rail and road transport 
and related infrastructure systems; 
10 1 
  
ii.  promote  cooperation  between  relevant  authorities,  in 
aspects related to railways, ports and airports; and 
 
iii.  encourage the exchange of information on the Parties’ 
policies,  especially  regarding  urban  transport  and  the 
interconnection  and  interoperability  of  multimodal 
transport networks and other issues of mutual interest. 
 
(c)  Dispute  Settlement:  Cooperation  in  dispute  settlement  shall 
include, among others, activities to:  
 
i.  encourage and facilitate the use of arbitration and other 
means of alternative dispute resolution for the settlement 
of  international  commercial  disputes  between  private 
parties in the free trade area; 
 
ii.  promote the execution of technical cooperation projects 
between private parties;  
 
iii.  promote  the  subscription  of  cooperation  agreements 
between  institutions  dedicated  to  the  analysis  of 
alternative  dispute  resolution  mechanisms  or  the 
administration of these procedures; and 
 
iv.  strengthen  capacity  building  for  the  management  of 
dispute  settlement  conflicts,  which  could  include 
exchange  of  better  practices,  training,  internships, 
consultancies, among others. 
 
(d)  Information Communication Technology (ICT): Cooperation 
in the ICT area shall include, among others:  
 
i.  promotion of electronic commerce; 
 
ii.  promotion of the use of ICT related services, including 
newly emerging services, by consumers, the public and 
private sectors; and  
 
iii.  human resource development in the area of ICT; 
 
by, for instance:  
 
i.  promoting dialogue on ICT policy issues and national ICT 
strategies including e-Government;  
 
ii.  promoting  cooperation  between  the  respective  private 
sectors of the Parties; 
 
10 2 
 iii.  enhancing  cooperation  in  international  fora  relating  to 
ICT; and 
 
iv.  undertaking other appropriate cooperative activities. 
 
 
Article 14.11: Framework for Cooperation  
 
1.   In order to administer this Chapter, the Parties shall maintain contact 
points to facilitate the management of cooperation activities, communications, 
follow-up mechanisms and specific cooperation programs.  
 
2.   The contact points for the Parties are: 
 
(a)  in the case of Costa Rica: 
  
i.  Dirección General de Comercio Exterior,  
Ministerio de Comercio Exterior 
(Directorate General for Foreign Trade,  
Ministry of Foreign Trade) 
Address: 1st and 3rd Avenue, 40th Street, Paseo Colón, 
San José. 
Tel: (506) 22 99 47 00 
Fax: (506) 22 55 32 81 
P.O. Box: 297-1007 Centro Colón 
E-mail: dgce@comex.go.cr 
Web: www.comex.go.cr 
 
and 
 
ii.  Área de Cooperación Internacional,  
Ministerio de Planificación Nacional y Política Económica 
(International Cooperation Area,  
Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy) 
Address: Los Yoses, San Pedro, San José. 
Tel: (506) 22 81 27 00 
Fax: (506) 22 81 27 47 
E-mail: cooperacionbilateral@mideplan.go.cr 
Web: www.mideplan.go.cr 
 
(b)  in the case of Singapore: 
 
   Ministry of Trade and Industry 
   Trade Division 
Address: 100 High Street #09-01, The Treasury 
Singapore 179434, Republic of Singapore 
Tel: (65) 6225 9911 
Fax: (65) 6332 7260 
Email: mti_fta@mti.gov.sg 
Web: www.mti.gov.sg 
10 3 
  
or their successors or designated contact points. 
 
3.   The contact points shall report to the Commission all the cooperation 
activities carried out through this Chapter. 
 
4.   The Parties will make maximum use of diplomatic channels to promote 
dialogue and cooperation consistent with this Agreement. 
 
5.   The Parties may agree to cooperate in other areas of mutual interest 
other than the ones set out in this Agreement.  Cooperation in other areas 
shall be carried out through the relevant authorities of each Party and upon 
agreement. 
 
6.   Any cooperation activity agreed to between the Parties pursuant to the 
Chapter  shall be in  writing and  shall  specify  the  objectives, financial  and 
technical resources required, time-frame, as well as the task that must be 
performed by each Party, subject to each Party’s internal procedures. 
 
7.   Neither Party shall have recourse to any dispute settlement procedures 
under this Agreement for any issue arising from or relating to this Chapter. 
10 4 
 