 
Chapter 12 
Electronic Commerce 
 
 
Article 12.1: General 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognize  the  economic  growth  and  opportunities  that 
electronic commerce provides, the importance of avoiding barriers to its use 
and development, and the applicability of WTO rules to measures affecting 
electronic commerce.  
 
2.  For greater  certainty,  nothing in  this  Chapter  shall be  construed  to 
prevent a Party from imposing internal taxes, directly or indirectly, on digital 
products,  provided  they  are  imposed  in  a  manner  consistent  with  this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 12.2: Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
carrier  medium  means  any  physical  object  capable  of  storing  the 
digital codes that form a digital product by any method now known or 
later developed, and from which a digital product can be perceived, 
reproduced, or communicated, directly or indirectly, and includes an 
optical medium, a floppy disk, and a magnetic tape; 
 
digital  products  means  computer  programs,  text,  video,  images, 
sound  recordings,  and  other  products  that  are  digitally  encoded, 
regardless of whether they are fixed on a carrier medium or transmitted 
electronically29; 
 
electronic  transmission  or  transmitted  electronically  means  the 
transfer  of  digital  products  using  any  electromagnetic  or  photonic 
means; and 
 
using electronic means means employing computer processing.  
 
 
Article 12.3: Electronic Supply of Services 
 
For greater certainty, the Parties affirm that  measures affecting the 
supply  of  a  service  using  electronic  means  fall  within  the  scope  of  the 
obligations  contained  in  the  relevant  provisions  of  Chapter  10  (Trade  in 
Services) and Chapter 11 (Investment), subject to any exceptions or non-
                                                
29 For greater certainty, digital products do not include digitized representations of financial 
instruments. 
9 0 
 conforming measures set out in this Agreement, which are applicable to such 
obligations. 
 
 
Article 12.4: Digital Products 
 
1.  Neither Party shall impose customs duties, fees, or other charges on or 
in  connection  with  the  importation  or  exportation  of  digital  products  by 
electronic transmission.  
 
2.  Each Party shall determine the customs value of an imported carrier 
medium bearing a digital product based on the cost or value of the carrier 
medium alone, without regard to the cost or value of the digital product stored 
on the carrier medium. 
 
3.  Neither Party shall accord less favourable treatment to some digital 
products transmitted electronically than it accords to other like digital products 
transmitted electronically: 
 
(a)  on the basis that: 
 
i.  the  digital products  receiving less  favourable  treatment 
are  created,  produced,  published,  stored,  transmitted, 
contracted for, commissioned, or first made available on 
commercial terms outside its territory; or  
 
ii.  the author, performer, producer, developer, or distributor 
of such digital products is a person of the other Party or 
non-Party; 
 
  or 
 
(b)  so  as  otherwise  to  afford  protection  to  the  other  like  digital 
products  that  are  created,  produced,  published,  stored, 
transmitted,  contracted  for,  commissioned,  or  first  made 
available on commercial terms in its territory30. 
 
4.  Neither Party shall accord less favourable treatment to digital products 
transmitted electronically: 
 
(a)  that  are  created,  produced,  published,  stored,  transmitted, 
contracted  for,  commissioned,  or  first  made  available  on 
commercial  terms  in  the  territory  of  the  other  Party  than  it 
accords to like digital products transmitted electronically that are 
created,  produced,  published,  stored,  transmitted,  contracted 
for, commissioned, or first made available on commercial terms 
in the territory of a non-Party; or 
                                                
30 For greater certainty, this paragraph does not provide any right to a non-Party or a person 
of a non-Party. 
9 1 
  
(b)  whose author, performer, producer, developer, or distributor is a 
person of the other Party than it accords to like digital products 
transmitted  electronically  whose  author,  performer,  producer, 
developer, or distributor is a person of a non-Party. 
 
5.  Paragraphs  3  and  4  do  not  apply  to  any non-conforming  measure 
described  in  Articles  10.7  (Non-Conforming  Measures),  or  11.13  (Non-
Conforming Measures).  
 
6.  This  Article  does  not  apply  to  measures  affecting  broadcasting 
services,  including  the  electronic  transmission  of  a  series  of  text,  video, 
images,  sound  recordings,  and  other  products  scheduled  by  a  content 
provider for aural and/or visual reception, and for which the content consumer 
has no choice over the scheduling of the series. 
 
 
Article 12.5: Transparency 
 
Each Party shall publish or otherwise make available to the public its 
laws, regulations, and other measures of general application that pertain to 
electronic commerce. 
 
 
Article 12.6: Cooperation 
 
  Recognizing the global nature of electronic commerce, the Parties shall 
encourage cooperative activities to promote it.  The areas of cooperation may 
include the following: 
 
(a)  promoting  and  facilitating  the  use of  electronic  commerce  by 
small and medium sized enterprises; and 
 
(b)  sharing  information  and  experiences  as  mutually  agreed  on 
laws, regulations and programmes in the sphere of electronic 
commerce. 
 
 
9 2 
 