 
Chapter 17  
Dispute Settlement 
 
 
Article 17.1: Cooperation  
 
The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation 
and application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt through 
cooperation, consultations or other means to arrive at a mutually satisfactory 
resolution of any matter that might affect its operation. 
 
 
Article 17.2: Scope of Application 
 
  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the dispute settlement 
provisions of this Chapter shall apply: 
 
(a)  with  respect  to  the  avoidance  or  settlement  of  all  disputes 
between the Parties regarding the interpretation or application of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  wherever a Party considers that a measure of the other Party is 
inconsistent with the obligations of this Agreement or the other 
Party has otherwise failed to carry out its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 17.3: Choice of Forum 
 
1.   Where a dispute regarding any matter arises under this Agreement and 
under the WTO Agreement or any other agreement to which both Parties are 
party,  the  complaining  Party  may  select  the  forum  in  which  to  settle  the 
dispute.  
 
2.   Once a Party has requested the establishment of a panel under an 
agreement referred to in paragraph 1, the forum selected shall be used to the 
exclusion of the others in respect of that matter, unless both Parties otherwise 
agree.  
 
 
Article 17.4: Consultations 
 
1.   A Party may request, in writing, consultations with the other Party with 
respect to any measure or any other matter that it considers might affect the 
operation of this Agreement. 
 
2.   The requesting Party shall deliver the request to the other Party, and 
shall  set  out  the  reasons  for  the  request,  including  identification  of  the 
11 1 
 measure or other matter at issue and an indication of the legal basis for the 
complaint.  
 
3.   The consulting Parties shall make every attempt to arrive at a mutually 
satisfactory resolution of any matter through consultations under this Article or 
other consultation provisions in this Agreement.  To this end, the consulting 
Parties shall: 
 
(a)  provide sufficient information to enable a full examination of how 
the measure or other matter at issue might affect the operation 
of this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  treat any confidential information exchanged in the course of 
consultations  on  the  same  basis  as  the  Party  providing  the 
information. 
 
4.   In  the  consultations  under  this  Article,  any  consulting  Party  may 
request  the  other  Party  to  make  available  personnel  of  its  government 
agencies or other regulatory bodies who have expertise in the matter which is 
the subject of the consultations.  
 
5.   Consultations may be held in person or by any technological means 
available  to  the  Parties.    In  the  event  that  the  Parties  decide  to  hold 
consultations in person, these shall be held in a place agreed by the Parties, 
or if there is no agreement, in the capital of the requested Party. 
 
6.   The consultation period shall not exceed 45 days from the date of 
receipt  of  the  formal  request  to initiate  consultations,  unless  both  Parties 
agree to extend this period.  On disputes concerning perishable goods33, the 
consultation period shall not exceed 20 days from the date of receipt of the 
formal request to initiate consultations, unless both Parties agree to extend 
this period.  
 
7.   If the requested Party does not answer the request for consultations 
within  10  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  formal  request  to  initiate 
consultations, if consultations are not held within the periods laid down in 
paragraph 6, or if the consultation period has expired and the dispute has not 
been resolved, the requesting Party may request the establishment of a Panel 
in accordance with Article 17.6 (Request for a Panel). 
 
8.   Consultations shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of 
any Party in any further proceedings. 
 
                                                
33 For greater certainty, the term “perishable goods” means perishable agricultural and fish 
goods classified in chapters 1 through 24 of the Harmonized System. 
11 2 
 Article 17.5: Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation 
 
1.   Good offices, conciliation and mediation are procedures undertaken 
voluntarily if the Parties so agree. 
 
2.   Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation and mediation, and in 
particular  the  positions  taken  by  the  disputing  Parties  during  these 
proceedings, shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of either 
Party in any further proceedings under this Chapter. 
 
3.   Good offices, conciliation or mediation may be requested at any time 
by either Party.  They may begin at any time and be terminated at any time. 
 
4.   If  the  Parties  agree,  good  offices,  conciliation  or  mediation  may 
continue while the dispute proceeds for resolution before a Panel established 
under Article 17.8 (Panel Selection).  
 
 
Article 17.6: Request for a Panel 
 
1.   Where the Parties have failed to resolve the dispute in accordance with 
Article 17.4 (Consultations), the complaining Party may send a written request 
to the other Party for the establishment of a Panel to consider the matter.  The 
request shall include an identification of the measure or other matter at issue 
and the provisions of this Agreement considered pertinent, as well as any 
other relevant circumstances.  
 
2.   Unless otherwise agreed by the disputing Parties, the Panel shall be 
established  and  perform  its  functions  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the 
provisions of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 17.7: List of Panelists 
 
1.   The Parties shall establish within 6 months of the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement and maintain a list of up to 15 individuals who are 
willing and able to serve as panelists.  Each Party may propose up to 5 
individuals to serve as panelists.  The Parties may also agree on the selection 
of up to 5 individuals who are not nationals of either Party, who shall act as 
chairperson of the Panel.  The members of the list shall be appointed by 
consensus, and may be reappointed.  The Parties, by consensus, may modify 
the list or include new members when they consider it necessary.  
 
2.   Members of the list shall: 
 
(a)  have expertise or experience in law, international trade, other 
matters covered by this Agreement, or the resolution of disputes 
arising under international trade agreements; 
 
(b)  be  chosen  strictly  on  the  basis  of  objectivity,  reliability,  and 
11 3 
 sound judgment; 
 
(c)  be independent of, and not be affiliated with or take instructions 
from, any Party; and 
 
(d)  comply  with  the  Rules  of  Conduct  for  the  Understanding  on 
Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes of 
the WTO.  
 
3.   The Parties may proceed to use the list, even if it is incomplete, with 
the  candidates  already  proposed  and  appointed  by  consensus  under 
paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 17.8: Panel Selection 
 
1.   The Parties shall apply the following procedures in selecting a Panel: 
 
(a)  The Panel shall comprise 3 members. 
 
(b)  Each Party shall appoint a panelist within 10 days of the delivery 
of the request for the establishment of the Panel. 
 
(c)  Panelists shall normally be selected from the list.  Any Party 
may exercise a peremptory challenge against any individual not 
on the list who is proposed as a panelist by a Party within 10 
days after the individual has been proposed. 
 
(d)  The Parties shall endeavour to agree on a third panelist who 
shall not be a national of any of the Parties to serve as the 
chairperson of the Panel within 15 days of the appointment of 
the second panelist.  If the Parties cannot reach an agreement 
during this period, the 2 appointed panelists shall endeavour to 
unanimously  select  a  third  panelist  to  serve  as  chairperson 
within the following 10 days. 
 
(e)  In the event that a panelist cannot be appointed in accordance 
with the procedures set out in subparagraphs (c) and (d), said 
panelist  shall  be  selected  by  lot  among  the  relevant  list 
members  established  under  Article  17.7  (List  of  Panelists); 
namely, the members of the list proposed by the Party that did 
not appoint a panelist or the members of the list that the Parties 
agreed on to act as chairperson.  The chair of the Commission 
or the chair’s designee shall carry out the lot within 5 days of 
receipt of a request to do so from one or both Parties.  The lot 
shall  be  carried  out  at  a  time  and  place  to  be  promptly 
communicated  to  the  Parties.    The  Parties  may,  if  they  so 
choose,  be  present  during  the  lot  in  person  or  by  any 
technological means.  
 
11 4 
 (f)  All panelists shall meet the qualifications set out in Article 17.7 
(List  of  Panelists).    Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  appoint 
panelists  who  have  expertise  or  experience  relevant  to  the 
subject matter of the dispute, as appropriate. 
 
(g)  Individuals may not serve as panelists for a dispute in which 
they have participated in another capacity pursuant to Article 
17.5 (Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation). 
 
2.   The date of establishment of the Panel shall be the date on which the 
chairperson is appointed. 
 
3.   If any of the panelists resigns or becomes unable to act, a new panelist 
shall be appointed in accordance with this Article.  
 
4.   If a Party believes that a panelist is in violation of the Rules of Conduct 
referred to in Article 17.7 (List of Panelists), both Parties shall consult and, if 
they  agree,  the  panelist  shall  be  removed  and  a  new  panelist  shall  be 
appointed in accordance with this Article.  
 
5.   Where, in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4, there is a need to 
appoint a new panelist, panel proceedings shall be suspended until the new 
panelist is appointed.  The new panelist shall have all the powers and duties 
of the original panelist.  
 
6.   The procedures set out in this Article shall apply in those cases where 
the original Panel or some of its members are unable to reconvene pursuant 
to Article 17.15 (Implementation of the Final Report), Article 17.16 (Review of 
any Measure Taken to Comply with the Final Report), Article 17.17 (Non-
Implementation  –  Compensation  and  Suspension  of  Benefits)  and  Article 
17.18 (Compliance Review).  In these cases, the period for notifying the report 
shall be counted from the date on which the last panelist is appointed. 
 
 
Article 17.9: Rules of Procedure 
 
1.   The  Commission  shall  establish  Rules  of  Procedure  no  later  than 
during its first session.  The Rules of Procedure shall ensure:  
 
(a)  a right to at least one hearing before the Panel; 
 
(b)  an  opportunity  for  each  Party  to  provide  initial  and  rebuttal 
written submissions;  
 
(c)  the protection of confidential information; and 
 
(d)  the  possibility  of  using  technological  means  to  conduct  the 
proceedings. 
 
11 5 
 2.   Unless  the  Parties  otherwise  agree,  the  Panel  shall  conduct  its 
proceedings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 
 
3.   The Parties may, by agreement, modify the Rules of Procedure for 
specific proceedings. 
 
4.   Unless the Parties otherwise agree within 20 days from the date of the 
delivery  of  the  request  for  the  establishment  of  the  Panel,  the  Terms  of 
Reference shall be: 
 
“To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
the  matter  referred  to  in  the  panel  request  and  to  make  findings, 
determinations  and  recommendations,  as  provided  in  Article  17.11 
(Initial Report) and Article 17.12 (Final Report).”  
 
5.   Where the Parties have agreed on different Terms of Reference, they 
shall notify these to the Panel within 2 days of their agreement. 
 
6.   If  a  Party  wishes  the  Panel  to  make  findings  as  to  the  degree  of 
adverse trade effects on either Party of any measure or matter at issue found 
not to conform with the obligations of the Agreement, the Terms of Reference 
shall so indicate.  
 
7.   The location of any hearings of the Panel, if they are held in person, 
shall be decided by mutual agreement of the Parties, failing which, it shall be 
held in the capital of the Party complained against. 
 
8.   The remuneration of the panelists and other expenses of the Panel 
shall be borne by the Parties in equal shares. 
 
 
Article 17.10: Role of Experts 
 
1.   On request of a Party, or on its own initiative, unless both Parties 
disapprove it, the Panel may seek information and technical advice from any 
person or body that it deems appropriate.  
 
2.  Before  the  Panel  may  request  information  or  technical  advice, 
appropriate procedures shall be established in consultation with the Parties.  
The Panel shall provide the Parties with:  
 
(a)  prior notification and time to make observations before the Panel 
regarding requests for information and technical advice pursuant 
to paragraph 1; and 
 
(b)  a  copy  of  any  information  or  technical  advice  submitted  in 
answer to a request made pursuant to paragraph 1, and the time 
to submit comments. 
 
11 6 
 3.   When the Panel takes into consideration such information or technical 
advice in the preparation of its report, it shall also take into account any 
comments or observations submitted by the Parties on the information or 
technical advice. 
 
4.   When  a  request  for  information  or  technical  advice  is  made  in 
accordance  with  this  Article, any  period  regarding  the  procedure  shall  be 
suspended from the delivery of the request to the date when the written report 
is delivered to the Panel.  
 
 
Article 17.11: Initial Report 
 
1.   Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the Panel shall base its report on 
the relevant provisions of the Agreement, the submissions and arguments of 
the Parties, and any information taken into consideration pursuant to Article 
17.10 (Role of Experts). 
 
2.   Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the Panel shall, within 90 days, 
and within 50 days in the case of perishable goods, after the establishment of 
the Panel, notify to the Parties an initial report containing: 
 
(a)  findings  of  fact, including  any  findings pursuant  to a  request 
under Article 17.9.6 (Rules of Procedure);  
 
(b)  its determination as to whether the measure or other matter at 
issue  is  inconsistent  with  this  Agreement  or  any  other 
determination requested in the Terms of Reference; and 
 
(c)  its recommendations, if any, for resolution of the dispute. 
 
3.   A Party may submit written comments to the Panel on its initial report 
within 14 days of the notification of the report or within such other period as 
the Parties may agree.  A copy of the comments submitted shall be provided 
to the other Party. 
 
4.   After considering any such written comments on the initial report, the 
Panel  may  reconsider  its  report,  and  make  any  further  examination  it 
considers appropriate.  
 
 
Article 17.12: Final Report 
 
1.  The  Panel  shall  notify its  final  report  to  the  Parties,  containing  the 
elements listed in Article 17.11.2 (Initial Report), and including any separate 
opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, within 30 days of notification of 
the initial report, unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
 
2.   The Parties shall release the final report to the public within 15 days 
thereafter or 7 days after a clarification pursuant to Article 17.13 (Request for 
11 7 
 Clarification  of  the  Final  Report),  subject  to  the  protection  of  confidential 
information.  
 
3.   Where the Panel considers that the deadlines referred to in paragraph 
1 cannot be met, the chairperson of the Panel shall promptly notify the Parties 
in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the date on which the Panel 
plans  to  conclude its  work.    Unless  exceptional  circumstances  apply,  the 
report  should  be  notified  no  later  than  150  days  from  the  date  of  the 
establishment of the Panel, and 90 days in the case of perishable goods. 
 
4.   The Panel shall make every effort to take any decision by consensus. 
Where,  nevertheless,  a  decision  cannot  be  arrived  at  by  consensus,  the 
matter shall be decided by majority vote.  Panelists may furnish separate 
opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, however, no panel may, in its 
initial and final reports, disclose which panelists are associated with majority 
or minority opinions. 
 
5.   The report of the Panel shall be final and shall not add to or diminish 
the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement.  
 
 
Article 17.13: Request for Clarification of the Final Report 
 
1.   Within 10 days of the notification of the final report by the Panel, either 
Party may submit a written request to the Panel for clarification of its final 
report.    Any  clarification  by  the  Panel  shall  not  affect  its  findings, 
determinations and recommendations. 
 
2.   The Panel shall respond to the request within no more than 20 days, 
counted  from  the  date  of  submission  of  the  request.    The  request  for 
clarification shall not postpone the deadline for compliance with the adopted 
decision,  unless  the  Panel  decides  otherwise  or  if  the  circumstances  so 
require. 
 
 
Article 17.14: Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
  
1.   The Parties may agree to suspend the work of the Panel at any time for 
a period not exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement.  In any 
event, if the work of the Panel has been suspended for more than 12 months, 
the Terms of Reference of the Panel shall lapse unless the Parties agree 
otherwise.  If the Terms of Reference of the Panel have lapsed and the 
Parties have not reached an agreement on the settlement of the dispute, 
nothing in this provision shall prevent a Party from requesting consultations 
and subsequently, the establishment of a Panel on the same matter at a later 
stage.  The Terms of Reference shall not lapse where the suspension is the 
result of attempts in good faith at reaching a mutually satisfactory solution 
pursuant to Article 17.5 (Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation). 
 
11 8 
 2.   The Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings before a Panel at 
any time by jointly notifying the chairperson of the Panel to this effect.  
 
 
Article 17.15: Implementation of the Final Report 
 
1.   On receipt of the final report of a Panel, the Party complained against 
shall, without undue delay, take any measure necessary to comply in good 
faith with the final report.  
 
2.   The  disputing  Parties  may  also  agree  at  any  time  on  a  mutually 
satisfactory solution to the dispute, which normally shall conform  with the 
determinations and recommendations, if any, of the Panel.  
 
3.   If  it  is  not  practicable  to  comply  immediately,  the  Parties  shall 
endeavour to agree on a reasonable period of time to comply, within 30 days 
after the date of the notification of the final report. 
 
4.   Failing agreement between the Parties on the reasonable period of 
time in accordance with paragraph 3, either Party may request the original 
Panel to determine the length of the reasonable period of time.   Such a 
request shall be made in writing and notified to the other Party.  The Panel 
shall  notify  its  report  to  the  Parties  within  20  days  from  the  date  of  the 
submission of the request.  
 
5.   The reasonable period of time may be extended by mutual agreement 
of  the  Parties.   All periods  contained in  this  Article  constitute  part  of  the 
reasonable period of time. 
 
 
Article 17.16: Review of any Measure Taken to Comply with the Final 
Report  
 
1.   The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party by the 
end of the reasonable period of time of any measure that it has taken to 
comply with the final report of the Panel and provide the details such as the 
effective date, the relevant text of the measure and a factual and juridical 
explanation of how the measure taken to comply brings the Party complained 
against into compliance.  
 
2.   In  the  event  of  disagreement  between  the  Parties  concerning  the 
existence or the consistency of any measure notified under paragraph 1 with 
the  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the  complaining  Party  may  request  the 
original Panel to rule on the matter.  Such request shall be made in writing, 
identify  the  specific  measure  at  issue  and  explain  how  such  measure  is 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.  The Panel shall notify its 
report within 45 days of the date of the submission of the request.  
 
11 9 
 Article 17.17: Non-Implementation – Compensation and Suspension of 
Benefits 
 
1.   If a Panel has made a determination of the type described in Article 
17.12  (Final  Report)  and  the  Party  complained  against fails  to  notify any 
measure taken to comply with the final report of the Panel before the expiry of 
the reasonable period of time, or if the complaining Party considers that the 
Party  complained against  has  failed  to  carry  out  the  mutually  satisfactory 
solution, or if the Panel rules that the measure notified under Article 17.16 
(Review  of  any  Measure  Taken  to  Comply  with  the  Final  Report)  is 
inconsistent  with  that  Party’s  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  the  Party 
complained against shall enter into negotiations with the complaining Party 
with  a  view  to  developing  mutually  acceptable  compensation.    This 
compensation shall be effective from the moment the Parties agree to it until 
the Party complained against complies. 
 
2.   If the disputing Parties: 
 
(a)  are unable to agree on compensation within 30 days after the 
period for developing such compensation has begun; or 
 
(b)  have  agreed  on  compensation  and  the  complaining  Party 
considers that the other Party has failed to observe the terms of 
the agreement,  
 
the complaining Party may at any time thereafter provide written notice to the 
Party complained against that it intends to suspend the application, to that 
Party, of benefits of equivalent effect.  The notice shall specify the level of 
benefits that the Party proposes to suspend.  The complaining Party may 
begin suspending benefits 30 days after the date on which it provides written 
notice under this paragraph, or 7 days after the Panel issues its determination 
under  paragraph  3, as  the  case  may  be,  and  until  the  Party  complained 
against complies. 
 
3.   If the Party complained against considers that: 
 
(a)  the level of benefits proposed to be suspended is manifestly 
excessive; or  
 
(b)  it has complied,  
 
it  may,  within  30  days  after  the  complaining  Party  provides  notice  under 
paragraph 2, request that the original Panel be reconvened to consider the 
matter.  The Party complained against shall also deliver its request in writing 
to the complaining Party.  The Panel shall reconvene as soon as possible 
after delivery of the request and shall notify its determination to the disputing 
Parties within 60 days after it reconvenes.  If the Panel determines that the 
level of benefits proposed to be suspended is manifestly excessive, it shall 
determine the level of benefits it considers to be of equivalent effect.  
 
12 0 
 4.   The complaining Party may suspend benefits up to the level the Panel 
has determined under paragraph 3 or, if the Panel has not determined the 
level,  the  level  the  complaining  Party  has  proposed  to  suspend  under 
paragraph 2, unless the Panel has determined that the Party complained 
against has complied.  
 
5.   In considering what benefits to suspend pursuant to paragraph 2: 
 
(a)  a complaining Party should first seek to suspend benefits in the 
same sector or sectors as that affected by the measure or other 
matter  that  the  Panel  has  found  to  be  inconsistent  with  the 
obligations of this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  a  complaining  Party  that  considers  it  is  not  practicable  or 
effective to suspend benefits in the same sector or sectors may 
suspend benefits in other sectors. 
 
 
Article 17.18: Compliance Review 
 
1.   In those cases where suspension of benefits has been applied, and the 
Party  complained  against  considers  that  it  has  complied,  it  may  provide 
written notice to the complaining Party to request the end of the suspension of 
benefits.  If the complaining Party disagrees, the Party complained against 
may refer the matter to the Panel.  The Panel shall notify its report on the 
matter within 30 days after the Party complained against refers the matter to 
it. 
 
2.   If the Panel decides that the Party complained against has complied, 
the complaining Party shall promptly reinstate any benefits suspended under 
Article  17.17  (Non-Implementation  –  Compensation  and  Suspension  of 
Benefits). 
 
 
Article 17.19: Time Periods 
 
1.   All  time  periods  laid  down  in  this  Chapter  and  in  the  Rules  of 
Procedure, including the periods for Panels to notify their reports, shall be 
counted in calendar days, the first day being the day following the act or fact 
to which they refer. 
 
2.   Any  time  period  referred  to  in  this  Chapter  and  in  the  Rules  of 
Procedure may be modified by mutual agreement of the Parties in specific 
proceedings. 
 
12 1 
 