Letter of Understanding among the Parties to
the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation
among the Governments of the Member Countries of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and
the Republic of Korea on the Back-to-Back Certificate of
Origin
The Parties to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the
Framework 
Agreement 
on 
Comprehensive 
Economic
Cooperation among the Governments of the Member
Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and
the Republic of Korea (hereinafter referred to as "the
Agreement on Trade in Goods") have reached the following
understanding on the back-to-back Certificate of Origin:
1. 
The provisions of Annex 3 and Appendix 1 to Annex 3
to the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall be applied to the
implementation of the back-to-back Certificate of Origin
arrangement.
2. 
For the purpose of monitoring trade between the
Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations and the Republic of Korea under the Agreement on
Trade in Goods, the issuing authority which issued the back-
to-back Certificate of Origin as provided for in Appendix 1 to
Annex 3 to the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall upon
request by the customs authority of the importing Party
provide such customs authority with information regarding
the back-to-back Certificate of Origin.
3. 
Upon request of the customs authority of the importing
Party, the issuing authority of the intermediate Party shall
provide information pertaining to the original Certificate of
Origin, such as the first exporter, last exporter, reference
number, description of the goods, country of origin, and the
port of discharge, within 30 days from the date of receipt of
the request.
4. 
This Letter of Understanding takes effect on the same
date as the Agreement on Trade in Goods and shall be
treated as an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in
Goods.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly
authorised thereto, have signed the Letter of Understanding
among the Governments of the Member Countries of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Republic of
Korea.
DONE in duplicate copies in the English Language.
For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:
LIM JQCK HOI
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade
For the Royal Government of Cambodia:
PICH RITHI
Deputy Director-General
Ministry of Commerce
For the Governnrfent of the Republic of Indonesia:
HERRY SOETANTO
Director-General of International Trade Cooperation
Ministry of Trade
For the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic:
BOUNTHONG VONGSALY
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
Lao People's Democratic Republic
to Brunei Darussalam
For the Government(of Malaysia:
DR. REBECCA FATIMA STA MARIA
Deputy Secretary-General (Trade)
Ministry of International Trade and Industry
For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:
DAW MYO NWE
Director-General
Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development
For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:
ELMERX. HEJRNANI
Undersecretary
Detriment of Trade and Industry
For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:
SULAIMAH MAHMOOD
Director
Ministry of Trade and Industry
For the Government of ttje Socialist Republic of Vietnam
IRAN TRUNG THUG
Director-General
Ministry of Trade
For the Government of the Republic of Korea:
\ 
_
HWANG WON-KUN
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the Republic of Korea to Brunei Darussalam
