   
ASEAN-KOREA AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                    ANNEX/SC1  
 _________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KOREA 
 
Schedule of Specific Commitments 
 
(For the First Package of Commitments) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
KOREA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
   
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
2 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
3 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
4 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
5 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
1  The Horizontal or Specific Commitments made under the Category "D" do not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the employment market of 
Korea, nor to measures regarding employment on a permanent basis in accordance with the Annex on Movement of Natural Persons. 
6 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
7 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
8 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
9 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
10 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
11 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
12 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
13 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
14 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
15 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
16 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
2  83105*: Only passenger vehicles for less than 15 passengers under CPC 83105. 
 
 
17 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
18 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
3 86761: Only inspection, testing and analysis services of air, water, noise level and vibration level under CPC 86761. 
19 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
4 86763, 86769: Only testing and analysis services of electrical products under CPC 86763, 86769. 
20 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
21 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
22 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
  5 88442: Screen painting, gravure printing and services related to printing under CPC 88442. 
23 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
6 According to the Postal Service Act, the Korean Postal Authority reserves exclusive rights for collecting, processing and delivering letters.  However, the Act allows private 
couriers to operate commercial document services, which include a) unsealed freight-attached documents or dispatch notes, b) trade-related documents, c) foreign capital or 
technology related documents, or d) foreign exchange or its related documents. 
 
24 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
25 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
26 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
7 Value-added services mean telecommunication services, which are provided through telecommunications network facilities leased from facilities-based basic telecommunication 
service providers, and which store and forward, or process and forward, the customer's information. 
 
8 On-line data base and remote computing services do not cover telecommunication services which mediate third party communications. 
9 Telecommunication services which transmit and/or exchange the customer's data without change in the form or content (voice telephony, telex, facsimile services and    
simple resale of leased circuits are excluded). 
27 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
10 Excluding trade in firearms, explosives and swords; works of art and antiques, and the establishment and operation of, and distribution services at, the public wholesale 
markets for agricultural, fishery and livestock products, which are officially designated by the local authorities as public wholesale markets. 
28 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
29 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
11 Franchising services are limited to those items which are allowed under Wholesale Trade Services and Retailing Services in this schedule. 
30 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
12 Specific commitments on market access and national treatment through any mode of supply shall not be construed to apply to the recognition of university degrees for the 
purpose of admission, registration and qualification for professional practice in Korea. 
31 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
32 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
33 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
34 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL      
  SERVICES 
 
A.  Sewage Services     
       
  Refuse water disposal   1)  Unbound  1)  None 
  services  2)  None  2)  None 
  (CPC 9401*)13  3)  None  3)  None 
  4)   Unbound except as indicated in the  4)  Unbound except as indicated in the 
Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
B.  Refuse Disposal Services     
 
  Industrial refuse disposal   1)  Unbound  1)  None 
  services  2)  None  2)  None 
  (CPC 9402*)14  3)  None  3)  None 
  4)  Unbound except as indicated in the  4)  Unbound except as indicated in the 
  Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
   
D.  Other     
 
  Cleaning  services  of  1)  None  1)  None 
exhaust  gases  and  noise  2)  None  2)  None 
abatement services  3)  None  3)  None 
  (CPC 9404, 9405)  4)    Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the  4)  Unbound except as indicated in the 
  Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
  Environment testing and   1)  None  1)  None 
  assessment services  2)  None  2)  None 
                                                      
13 9401: Only collection and treatment services of industrial waste water under CPC 9401 
14 9402: Only collection, transport and disposal services of industrial refuse under CPC 9402. 
35 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
  15 9406*, 9409*: Only environmental impact assessment services under CPC 9406 and 9409. 
36 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
37 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
38 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
16 Activities which assess and adjust the loss and compensation. 
17 Activities in which banks obtain funds from the public by receiving deposits or issuing transferable instruments or other securities. 
18  Activities in which banks provide funds to the public in order to receive interest via loans or bill discounts. 
39 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
(v)   Guarantees  and    Deposit for specific purpose, such as   
  commitments  housing subscription deposit, may be   
  handled only by designated institutions.   
(vi) Foreign  exchange       
services20    Securities savings and credit granting   
(vii) Settlement and clearing21   are subject to restriction of ceiling and   
  operation.   
  Lending  to  credit  card  members   
through such means as card loans is   
subject to limitation.   
  For  credit  card  services,  maximum   
limits are applied to various rates such   
as fees and interest rates.   
  The maturity of CDs shall be more than   
30 days.   
  Underlying  transaction  and   
documentation  requirements  apply  to   
foreign  exchange  transactions.   
Underlying  documentation   
                                                      
19 The definitions of "a person" and "non-financial service business entity" are in accordance with the relevant provision of the Presidential Decree of the Bank Act. 
20 Activities which issue, remit and collect foreign exchange. 
21 Activities which settle and clear notes, bills and cheques by banks according to the Article of KFTCI (Korea Financial Telecommunications and Clearings Institute). 
40 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
41 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
(x)  Asset management  1)  Unbound  1)  Unbound 
  :applicable only to  2)  Unbound  2)  Unbound 
  services listed below  3)  Commercial presence is permitted only  3)  None 
  to  foreign  asset  management   
a)  Cash or portfolio  companies.   
  management    Representative  offices  may  be   
  established by    
b)  All forms of collective    Pre-notification   
  investment management    To handle a trust business, approval   
42 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
(xii) Advisory,  intermediation   1)  Unbound  1)  Unbound 
and  other  auxiliary  2)  Unbound  2)  Unbound 
financial services  3)  Commercial presence is permitted only  3)  None 
  to  foreign  investment  advisory   
:applicable  only  to  services   companies.   
listed below    Representative  offices  may  be   
  established by pre-notification   
     Top  executive  personnel  of  each   
a)  Investment advice   establishment must reside in Korea.   
    
                                                      
22  Activities where a trustee is commissioned to manage the financial assets for beneficiary's benefit. 
43 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
 
                                                      
23  This exclusion does not affect the commitment on catering under CPC 642. 
44 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
11. TRANSPORT SERVICES     
 
A.  Maritime Transport      
  Services24 
 
                                                      
24 Refer to ATTACHMENT CONCERNING MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES. 
45 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
46 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
  Maritime Auxiliary        
  Services   
  Maritime cargo handling   1)  Unbound*  1)  Unbound*   
  services  2)  None  2)  None 
  (CPC 741*)  3)  None  3)  None 
  4)   Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the  4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the 
Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
   
 Storage and warehouse   1)  Unbound*  1)  Unbound*   
 services in ports   2)  None  2)  None   
  (CPC 742*)  3)  None  3)  None 
  4)   Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the  4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the 
Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
 
Customs Clearance  1)  Unbound*  1)  Unbound*   
service  2)  None  2)  None 
3)  None  3)  None 
4)   Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the  4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the 
Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
   
47 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
  Maritime freight   1)  None  1)  None   
  forwarding services  2)  None  2)  None 
  (CPC 748*)27  3)    Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies)  3)  None 
  as  stipulated  under  the  Commercial   
Act are permitted.   
4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the  4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the 
Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
   
  Shipping brokerage   1)  None  1)  None   
  services   2)  None  2)  None   
  (CPC 748*, 749*)28  3)  Only  Chusik  Hoesa(stock  companies)  3)  None 
  as stipulated under the Commercial Act   
  are permitted.   
4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the  4)  Unbound  except  as  indicated  in  the 
Horizontal Commitments section.  Horizontal Commitments section. 
   
                                                      
25 Agency services on behalf of maritime passenger transport businesses or maritime cargo transport businesses (including foreign transport businesses) under CPC 748 
26 Container station services provided in port areas under CPC 741 
27 Freight forwarding services by vessels in the name of the forwarder (including any foreign forwarders under contract) under CPC 748. 
28 748*, 749*: Brokerage services for maritime cargo transport or for the chartering, leasing, purchasing or selling of vessels under CPC 748 and 749. 
48 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
C.  Air Transport Services       
 
                                                      
29  Services, such as repair and management of vessels, management of crew, and marine insurance, provided on behalf of a maritime passenger transport 
business, maritime cargo transport business or vessel leasing business. 
49 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
30 As defined in the Annex on Air Transport Services. 
31 Services defined in subparagraph 34 (general air transport agency services) of Article 2 of the Aviation Act. " General air transport agency services" means services which 
make contracts for international transport of passengers or cargoes by aircraft  (excluding the service of acting for other persons in the application procedure for visa or 
passport) on behalf of air transport services firms for compensation 
50 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
51 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK    
Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
 
                                                      
32 “Freight Forwarding for Rail Transport” means such auxiliary services to be carried out at the ends of railway transport; these services include collecting containerized 
cargoes, contracting with Korea Railroad Corporation for transport of the freight on trains, loading/unloading and delivery of freight. 
52 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK  
 
 
 
REFERENCE PAPER 
 
Scope 
 
The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic 
telecommunications services.   
 
Definitions 
 
Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.   
 
Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network 
or service that 
 
(a)  are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number 
of suppliers;   and 
 
(b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to 
provide a service. 
 
A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of 
participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic 
telecommunications services as a result of: 
 
  (a)  control over essential facilities;  or 
 
  (b)  use of its position in the market. 
 
1.  Competitive safeguards 
 
1.1  Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications 
 
Appropriate  measures  shall  be  maintained  for  the  purpose  of  preventing 
suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing 
anti-competitive practices. 
 
1.2  Safeguards 
 
The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular: 
 
  (a)  engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;   
 
  (b)  using  information  obtained  from  competitors  with  anti-competitive 
results;  and 
 
(c)  not  making  available  to  other  services  suppliers  on  a  timely  basis 
technical  information  about  essential  facilities  and  commercially 
relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services.  
53 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK  
 
 
 
 
2.  Interconnection 
 
2.1  This  section  applies  to  linking  with  suppliers  providing  public 
telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one 
supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and  to access services 
provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken. 
 
2.2  Interconnection to be ensured 
 
Interconnection  with  a  major  supplier  will  be  ensured  at  any  technically 
feasible point in the network.  Such interconnection is provided. 
 
  (a)  under  non-discriminatory  terms,  conditions  (including  technical 
standards and   specifications) and rates and of a quality no less 
favourable than that provided for its own like services  or  for  like 
services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its   subsidiaries  or 
other affiliates; 
 
  (b)  in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards 
and   specifications)  and  cost-oriented  rates  that  are  transparent, 
reasonable, having regard to economic  feasibility,  and  sufficiently 
unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or 
facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided;  and 
 
  (c)  upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points 
offered to the   majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the 
cost of construction of necessary additional facilities. 
 
2.3  Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations 
 
The  procedures  applicable  for  interconnection  to  a  major  supplier  will  be 
made publicly available. 
 
2.4  Transparency of interconnection arrangements 
 
It  is  ensured  that  a  major  supplier  will  make  publicly  available  either  its 
interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer. 
 
2.5  Interconnection:  dispute settlement 
 
A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have 
recourse, either: 
 
  (a)  at any time or 
 
  (b)  after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known 
 
54 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK  
 
 
 
to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as 
referred  to  in  paragraph  5  below,  to  resolve  disputes  regarding 
appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a 
reasonable period  of  time, to  the  extent  that  these have not been 
established previously. 
 
3.  Universal service 
 
Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it 
wishes to maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, 
provided  they  are  administered  in  a  transparent,  non-discriminatory  and 
competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the 
kind of universal service defined by the Member.     
 
4.  Public availability of licensing criteria 
 
Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available: 
 
  (a)  all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to 
reach a decision concerning an application for a licence and 
 
  (b)  the terms and conditions of individual licences. 
 
  The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant 
upon request. 
 
5.  Independent regulators 
 
The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of 
basic telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by 
regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants. 
 
6.  Allocation and use of scarce resources 
 
Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including 
frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, 
transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  The current state of allocated frequency 
bands  will  be  made  publicly  available,  but  detailed  identification  of  frequencies 
allocated for specific government uses is not required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK  
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT CONCERNING MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES 
 
1.  International Shipping, 3.b): 
 
"Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime 
transport  services"  means  the  ability  for  international  maritime  transport  service 
suppliers  of  other  Members  to  establish  branches  and  to  undertake  activities 
concerned for the supply to their customers of maritime transport services. 
 
2.  Maritime Cargo Handling Services: 
 
Activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but 
not  including  the  direct  activities  of  dockers,  when  this  workforce  is  organized 
independently of the stevedoring or terminal companies.  The activities covered 
include the organization and supervision of: 
 
- the loading/discharging of cargo to/from a ship; 
- the lashing/unlashing of cargo; 
- the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after 
discharge. 
 
3.  Customs Clearance Services: 
 
Activities  consisting  in  carrying  out  on  behalf  of  another  party  customs 
formalities concerning import, export or through transport of cargoes, whether this 
service is the main activity of the service supplier or a usual complement of its main 
activity. 
 
4.  Container Station and Depot Services: 
 
Activities consisting in storing containers in port areas with a view to their 
stuffing/stripping, repairing and making them available for shipments. 
 
5.  Maritime Agency Services: 
 
Activities consisting in representing, within a given geographical area, as an 
agent, the business interests of one or more shipping lines or shipping companies, 
for the following purposes: 
 
-  Marketing  and  sales  of  maritime  transport  and  related  services,  from 
quotation  to  invoicing,  and  issuance  of  bills  of  lading  on  behalf  of  the 
companies;  acquisition  and  resale  of  the  necessary  related  services, 
preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; 
              
- Acting on behalf of the companies organizing the call of the ship or taking 
over cargoes when required. 
 
6.  Maritime Freight Forwarding Services: 
56 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK  
 
 
 
 
Activities  consisting  of  organizing  and  monitoring  shipment  operations  on 
behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of maritime transport and related services, 
preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
 
7.  Tally, Measuring and Survey Services: 
 
- Tally services: Activities consisting of calculating the number of cargoes or 
verifying the delivery and the receipt when loading and unloading. 
 
-  Measuring  services:  Activities  consisting  of  calculating  or  verifying  the 
volume or weight of cargoes when loading and unloading. 
 
-  Survey  services:  Activities  consisting  of  the  verification,  inspection  and 
survey related with shipped cargoes and vessels (including barges). 
 
 
57 AK-ATS/SC1/ROK 