ANNEX 2 
MODALITY FOR TARIFF REDUCTION/ELIMINATION 
FOR TARIFF LINES PLACED IN THE SENSITIVE TRACK 
 
1.  The number of tariff lines which each Party can place in the Sensitive 
Track shall be subject to a maximum ceiling of: 
 
(i)  ASEAN 6 and Korea:  
10% of all the tariff lines and 10% of the total value of 
imports  from  Korea  or  from  the  ASEAN  Member 
Countries as a whole, as appropriate, based on 2004 trade 
statistics; 
 
(ii)  Vietnam:  
10% of all the tariff lines and 25% of the total value of imports 
from Korea based on 2004 trade statistics; and 
 
(iii)  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar: 
10% of all the tariff lines. 
 
2.  Tariff  lines  placed  by  each  Party  in  the  Sensitive  Track  shall  be 
further classified into the Sensitive List and the Highly Sensitive List.  The 
number of tariff lines which each Party can place in the Highly Sensitive List 
shall be subject to a maximum ceiling of: 
 
(i)  ASEAN 6 and Korea: 
200 tariff lines at the HS 6-digit level or 3% of all the 
tariff lines at the HS digit level of each Party’s own choice 
and 3% of the total value of imports from Korea or from 
the ASEAN Member Countries as a whole, as appropriate, 
based on 2004 trade statistics. 
 
(ii)  Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Vietnam: 
200 tariff lines at the HS 6-digit level or 3% of all the 
tariff  lines  at  the  HS  digit  level  of  each  Party’s  own 
choice.  
3.  The Parties shall reduce and, where applicable, eliminate the applied 
MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in the Sensitive List according to the 
following Schedules: 
 
(i)  ASEAN 6 and Korea shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates 
of tariff lines placed in their respective Sensitive Lists to 20% 
not  later  than  1  January  2012.    These  tariff  rates  shall  be 
subsequently reduced to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2016. 
 
(ii)  Vietnam shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines 
placed in their respective Sensitive Lists to 20% not later than 1 
January 2017.  These tariff rates shall be subsequently reduced 
to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2021. 
 
(iii)  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar shall reduce the applied 
MFN  tariff  rates  of  tariff  lines  placed  in  their  respective 
Sensitive Lists to 20% not later than 1 January 2020.    These 
tariff rates shall be subsequently reduced to 0-5% not later than 
1 January 2024. 
 
4.  The tariff lines placed in a Party’s Highly Sensitive List shall be 
categorised into five groups.  For each group of their respective tariff lines in 
the Highly Sensitive List, the Parties undertake the following commitments: 
 
(i)  Group A (Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping): 
ASEAN 6 and Korea shall reduce the applied MFN tariff 
rates of tariff lines placed in Group A to not more than 
50  %  not  later  than  1  January  2016.    Vietnam  shall 
reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in 
Group A to not more than 50% not later than 1 January 
2021.  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar shall reduce 
the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group 
A to not more than 50 % not later than 1 January 2024. 
 
 
  2(ii)  Group B (Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%): 
ASEAN 6 and Korea shall reduce the applied MFN tariff 
rates of tariff lines placed in Group B by not less than 20% 
not later than 1 January 2016. Vietnam shall reduce the 
applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group B 
by  not  less  than  20%  not  later  than  1  January  2021.   
Cambodia,  Lao  PDR  and  Myanmar  shall  reduce  the 
applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group B 
by not less than 20% not later than 1 January 2024. 
 
(iii)  Group C (Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 50%): 
ASEAN 6 and Korea shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates 
of tariff lines placed in Group C by not less than 50% not later 
than 1 January 2016.  Vietnam shall reduce the applied MFN 
tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group C by not less than 
50% not later than 1 January 2021.  Cambodia, Lao PDR and 
Myanmar shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff 
lines placed in Group C by not less than 50% not later than 1 
January 2024. 
 
(iv)  Group D (Tariff lines subject to TRQs): 
The parties shall apply the tariff rate quotas on imports of the 
goods of tariff lines placed in Group D from the entry into force 
of this Agreement, in accordance with the conditions set out in 
their respective Schedule. 
 
(v)  Group E (Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession): 
Each Party reserves the rights to maintain the applied MFN 
tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group E.  The number of 
tariff lines which each Party can place in Group E shall be 
subject to a maximum ceiling of 40 tariff lines at the HS 6-digit 
level. 
 
5.  Tariff lines in the Sensitive Track, which are subject to specific tariff 
rates,  shall  have  such  tariffs  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  timeframes 
provided for in paragraphs 3 and 4.  The proportion of tariff reduction for 
  3these tariff lines shall be equal to the average margin of tariff reduction of the 
tariff lines with ad-valorem tariff rates under the Sensitive Track, which are 
subject to tariff reduction in the same year. 
 
6.  Notwithstanding the Schedules in paragraphs 3 and 4, any Party may 
unilaterally accelerate the tariff reduction and/or elimination for its tariff lines 
placed in the Sensitive Track at any time if it so wishes.  Nothing in this 
Agreement shall prevent any Party from unilaterally transferring any tariff line 
from the Sensitive Track into the Normal Track at any time if it so wishes. 
 
7.  The  reciprocal  tariff  rate  treatment  of  tariff  lines  placed  by  an 
exporting Party in the Sensitive Track, excluding Group E, while the same 
tariff lines are placed by the importing Party in the Normal Track, shall be 
governed by the following conditions: 
 
(i)  the tariff rate for a tariff line placed by an exporting Party in 
the Sensitive Track, excluding Group E, must be at 10% or 
below and the exporting Party has given notification to that 
effect to the other Parties in order for that exporting Party to 
enjoy reciprocity; 
 
(ii)  the reciprocal tariff rate to be applied to a tariff line placed by 
an exporting Party in the Sensitive Track shall be either the 
tariff rate of that exporting Party’s tariff line, or the Normal 
Track tariff rate of the same tariff line of an importing Party 
from whom reciprocity is sought, whichever is higher;  
 
(iii)  notwithstanding sub-paragraph (ii), the importing Party can, 
on its discretion, apply its Normal Track tariff rate even if 
such rate is lower than the tariff rate of the exporting Party; 
and 
 
(iv)  the reciprocal tariff rate to be applied to a tariff line placed by 
an exporting Party in the Sensitive Track shall in no case 
exceed the applied MFN rate of the same tariff line of an 
importing Party from whom reciprocity is sought. 
  4 
8.  The tariff lines placed by each Party in the Sensitive List and the 
Highly Sensitive List under the Sensitive Track based on the modality set out 
in this Annex are respectively listed in Appendices 1 and 2. 
  5