ANNEX 1 
MODALITY FOR TARIFF REDUCTION AND ELIMINATION FOR 
TARIFF LINES PLACED IN THE NORMAL TRACK 
 
 
1.  Tariff lines placed by each Party in the Normal Track shall have their 
respective  applied  MFN  tariff  rates  gradually  reduced  and  eliminated 
according to the following Schedules.    The first date of implementation shall 
be the date of entry into force of the Agreement.  The tariff reduction will be 
in accordance with the rate provided for that year in the schedule. 
 
(i)  ASEAN 6 and Korea 
 
 
(ii)  Socialist Republic of Vietnam (“Vietnam”) 
  
(iii)  Kingdom  of  Cambodia  (“Cambodia”),  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic (“Lao PDR”), and Union of Myanmar 
(“Myanmar”) 
 
* Myanmar shall be allowed to maintain ASEAN-Korea FTA preferential 
tariff rates at no more than 7.5% until 2010. 
 
2.  The tariff rates specified in the relevant Schedules in paragraph 1 only 
set out the level of the applicable ASEAN-Korea FTA preferential tariff rates 
to be applied by each Party for the tariff lines concerned in the specified year 
of  implementation  and  shall  not  prevent  any  Party  from  unilaterally 
accelerating its tariff reduction or elimination at any time if it so wishes. 
 
  23.  The tariff lines in the Normal Track, which are subject to specific 
tariff rates, shall have such specific tariff rates reduced to zero, in equal 
proportions in accordance with the timeframes provided in the Schedules set 
out in paragraph 1. 
 
4.  For all tariff lines placed in the Normal Track where the applied MFN 
tariff  rates  are  at  0%,  they  shall  remain  at  0%.    Where  they  have  been 
reduced to 0%, they shall remain at 0%.    No Party shall be permitted to 
increase the tariff rates for any tariff line, except as otherwise provided in this 
Agreement. 
 
5.  As an integral part of its commitments to reduce and/or eliminate the 
applied  MFN  tariff  rates  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Schedules  in 
paragraph 1, each Party hereby commits to undertake further tariff reduction 
and/or elimination in accordance with the following thresholds: 
 
(a)  Korea 
(i)  Korea shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 70 % of the 
tariff lines placed in the Normal Track upon the entry 
into force of this Agreement. 
(ii)  Korea shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 95% of the 
tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 
January 2008. 
(iii)  Korea shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines placed 
in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2010. 
 
(b)  ASEAN 6 
(i)  Each Party shall reduce its applied MFN tariff rates for 
at least 50 % of the tariff lines placed in the Normal 
Track to 0-5 % not later than 1 January 2007. 
(ii)  Each Party shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 90 % of 
the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 
1 January 2009. 
(iii)  Each Party shall eliminate its tariffs for all tariff lines 
placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 
  32010, with flexibility to have tariff lines, not exceeding 
5%  of  all  the  tariff  lines  or  as  listed  in  an  agreed 
Schedule, eliminated not later than 1 January 2012. 
(iv)  Each Party shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines 
placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 
2012. 
 
(c)  Vietnam 
(i)  Vietnam shall reduce its applied MFN tariff rates for at 
least 50% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track 
to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2013. 
(ii)  Vietnam shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 90% of the 
tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 
January 2015. 
(iii)  Vietnam  shall  eliminate  its  tariffs  for  all  tariff  lines 
placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 
2016, with flexibility to have tariff lines, not exceeding 
5% of all the tariff lines, eliminated not later than 1 
January 2018. 
(iv)  Vietnam  shall  eliminate  all  its  tariffs  for  tariff  lines 
placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 
2018. 
 
(d)  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar 
(i)  Each Party shall reduce their respective applied MFN 
tariff rates for at least 50% of the tariff lines placed in 
the Normal Track to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2015. 
(ii)  Each Party shall eliminate their respective tariffs for at 
least 90% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track 
not later than 1 January 2017. 
(iii)  Each Party shall eliminate their respective tariffs for all 
tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 
January 2018, with flexibility to have tariff lines, not 
exceeding 5% of all the tariff lines, eliminated not later 
than 1 January 2020. 
  4(iv)  Each Party shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines 
placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 
2020. 
 
6.  If an exporting Party places a tarrif line in the Normal Track, that 
exporting Party shall enjoy the tariff concessions which an importing Party has 
made for that tariff line as specified in and applied pursuant to the relevant 
Schedules either in this Annex or Annex 2 together with the undertakings and 
conditions set out therein.   This right shall be enjoyed for so long as that 
exporting  Party  adheres  to  its  own  commitments  for  tariff  reduction  and 
elimination for that tariff line. 
 
7.  Each  Party  shall  eliminate  all  its  tariffs  for  the  tariff  lines  given 
flexibility in paragraph 5, not later than 1January 2012. 
 
8.  Each Party shall notify the other Parties its tariff lines placed in the 
Normal Track along with the tariff elimination schedule for each tariff line in 
accordance with paragraph 5, not later than the date when the commitment of 
the Party commences with respect to the tariff lines. 
  5