ANNEX ON FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
1.  Scope and Definition 
 
(a)   This  Annex  applies  to  measures  affecting  the  supply  of  financial 
services.  Reference to the supply of a financial service in this Annex 
shall mean the supply of a service as defined in Article 1(hh) of this 
Agreement.   
 
(b)  For the purposes of Article 1(bb) of this Agreement, "services supplied 
in the exercise of governmental authority" means the following: 
 
(i)   activities conducted by a central bank or monetary authority or by 
any other public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate 
policies; 
 
(ii)   activities forming part of a statutory system of social security or 
public retirement plans;  and 
 
(iii)  other activities conducted by a public entity for the account or 
with  the  guarantee  or  using  the  financial  resources  of  the 
Government. 
 
(c)   For the purposes of Article 1(bb) of this Agreement, if a Party allows any 
of the activities referred to in subparagraphs (b)(ii) or (b)(iii) of this 
paragraph  to  be  conducted  by  its  financial  service  suppliers  in 
competition with a public entity or a financial service supplier, "services" 
shall include such activities. 
 
(d)   Article 1(cc)  of this Agreement shall not apply to services covered by 
this Annex. 
 
2.  Prudential Measures, Exchange Rate and Financial Stability 
 
(a)    Notwithstanding   any   other   provisions   of   this   Agreement,   a   
Party   shall   not   be   prevented   from   taking   measures  for 
prudential   reasons,   including   for   the   protection   of   investors, 
depositors,   policy   holders   or   persons   to   whom   a fiduciary duty 
is owed by a financial service supplier; to ensure the integrity  and 
stability of the financial system; or to ensure the stability of the exchange  rate1,  including  to  prevent  speculative  capital  flows,  subject  to  the 
following: 
 
(i)    where such measures do not conform with the provisions of this 
Agreement, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the 
Party’s commitments or obligations under this Agreement; 
 
(ii)    for measures to ensure the stability of the exchange rate including 
to prevent speculative capital flows, such measures shall be no 
more than necessary, and phased out within one year or when 
conditions no longer justify their institution or maintenance; and 
 
(iii)  for measures to ensure the stability of the exchange rate including 
to  prevent  speculative  capital  flows,  such  measures  shall  be 
applied on a Most-Favoured-Nation basis. 
 
(b)   Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to disclose 
information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or 
any confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public 
entities. 
 
 
3.  Recognition 
 
(a)  A  Party  may  recognise  prudential  measures  of  any  other  country  in 
determining how the Party's measures relating to financial services shall 
be  applied.    Such  recognition,  which  may  be  achieved  through 
harmonisation  or  otherwise,  may  be  based  upon  an  agreement  or 
arrangement  with  the  country  concerned  or  may  be  accorded 
autonomously. 
 
(b)  A Party   that  is   a   party   to   such   an   agreement   or   arrangement 
referred   to    in   subparagraph   (a),   whether   future   or   existing, 
shall   afford   adequate   opportunity   for   other   interested  Parties   to 
negotiate   their   accession   to   such   agreements   or   arrangements,   
or   to     negotiate   comparable    ones    with    it,   under    
circumstances    in   which   there    would    be    equivalent    regulation, 
oversight,    implementation    of    such    regulation, and, if appropriate,  
                                            
1  The measures to ensure the stability of the exchange rate including to prevent speculative capital flows 
shall not be adopted or maintained for the purpose of protecting a particular sector. 
  
procedures concerning the sharing of information between the parties to 
the  agreement  or  arrangement.    Where  a  Party  accords  recognition 
autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for any other Party to 
demonstrate that such circumstances exist. 
 
(c)   Where  a  Party  is  contemplating  according  recognition  to  prudential 
measures  of  any  other  country,  paragraph 4(b)  of  Article 7  shall  not 
apply. 
 
4.  Dispute Settlement 
 
   Panels for disputes on prudential issues and other financial matters shall have 
the necessary expertise relevant to the specific financial service under dispute. 
 
5.  Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a)   A financial service is any service of a financial nature offered by a 
financial  service  supplier  of  a  Party.    Financial  services  include  all 
insurance  and  insurance-related  services,  and  all  banking  and  other 
financial services (excluding insurance).  Financial services include the 
following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(i)  Direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(A)  life 
(B)  non-life 
 
(ii)  Reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(iii)  Insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; 
 
(iv)  Services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, 
risk assessment and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
(v)  Acceptance  of  deposits  and  other  repayable  funds  from  the 
public; (vi)  Lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, 
factoring and financing of commercial transaction; 
 
(vii)  Financial leasing; 
 
(viii)  All payment and money transmission services, including credit, 
charge and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts; 
 
(ix)  Guarantees and commitments; 
 
(x)  Trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on 
an  exchange,  in  an  over-the-counter  market  or  otherwise,  the 
following: 
 
(A)  money  market  instruments  (including  cheques,  bills, 
certificates of deposits); 
(B)  foreign exchange; 
(C)  derivative products including, but not limited to, futures 
and options; 
(D)  exchange  rate  and  interest  rate  instruments,  including 
products such as swaps, forward rate agreements; 
(E)  transferable securities; 
(F)  other  negotiable  instruments  and  financial  assets, 
including bullion. 
 
(xi)  Participation  in  issues  of  all  kinds  of  securities,  including 
underwriting  and  placement  as  agent  (whether  publicly  or 
privately) and provision of services related to such issues; 
 
(xii)  Money broking; 
 
(xiii)  Asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all 
forms  of  collective  investment  management,  pension  fund 
management, custodial, depository and trust services; 
 
(xiv)  Settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including 
securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (xv)  Provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data 
processing and related software by suppliers of other financial 
services; 
 
(xvi)  Advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on 
all  the  activities  listed  in  subparagraphs  (v)  through  (xv), 
including credit reference and analysis, investment and portfolio 
research  and  advice,  advice  on  acquisitions  and  on  corporate 
restructuring and strategy. 
 
(b)  A financial service supplier means any natural or juridical person of a 
Party wishing to supply or supplying financial services but the term 
"financial service supplier" does not include a public entity. 
 
(c)  Public entity means: 
 
(i)   a government, a central bank or a monetary authority, of a Party, 
or an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally 
engaged in carrying out governmental functions or activities for 
governmental  purposes,  not  including  an  entity  principally 
engaged in supplying financial services on commercial terms;  or 
 
(ii)   a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a 
central  bank  or  monetary  authority,  when  exercising  those 
functions. 
 