APPENDIX 1 
OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES   
FOR THE RULES OF ORIGIN   
 
 
For  the  purposes  of  implementing  Annex  3,  the  following  operational 
procedures on the issuance of a Certificate of Origin, verification of origin and other 
related administrative matters shall be observed: 
 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Rule 1 
 
For the purposes of this Appendix: 
 
back-to-back  Certificate  of  Origin  means  a  Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  an 
intermediate exporting Party based on the Certificate of Origin issued by the first 
exporting Party;  
 
customs authority means the competent authority that is responsible under the law of 
a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations1; 
 
exporter means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party from 
where a good is exported by such a person; 
 
importer means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party into 
where a good is imported by such a person; and 
 
issuing authority means the competent authority designated by the government of the 
exporting Party to issue a Certificate of Origin and notified to all the other Parties in 
accordance with this Appendix. 
 
producer means a natural or juridical person who carries out production as set out in 
Rule 1 of Annex 3 in the territory of a Party. 
 
 
ISSUING AUTHORITIES 
 
Rule 2 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  provide  the  names,  addresses,  specimen  signatures  and 
specimen of official seals of its issuing authorities to all the other Parties, through the 
ASEAN Secretariat.  Any change in the said list shall be promptly provided in the 
same manner. 
2.  Any Certificate of Origin issued by an official not included in the said list 
shall not be honoured by the customs authority. 
 
                                                
1 Such laws and regulations administered and enforced by the customs authority of each Party 
concerning the importation, exportation and transit of goods as they relate to customs duties, charges 
and other taxes or prohibitions, restrictions and controls with respect to the movement of controlled 
items across the boundary of the customs authority of each Party. 
 
-1-  
-2- 
 
Rule 3 
 
For the purposes of determining originating status, the issuing authorities shall 
have the right to request for supporting documentary evidence or to carry out the 
check considered appropriate in accordance with a Party’s respective domestic laws 
and regulations. 
 
 
ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
Rule 4 
 
1.  The producer and/or exporter of the good, or its authorised representative, 
shall apply to the issuing authority, in accordance with the Party’s domestic laws and 
regulations,  requesting  for pre-exportation  examination  of the origin of the good.  
The result of the examination, subject to review periodically or whenever appropriate, 
shall be accepted as the supporting evidence in determining the origin of the said good 
to be exported thereafter.  The pre-exportation examination may not apply to the 
good of which, by its nature, origin can be easily determined. 
 
2.  The producer and/or exporter or its authorised representative shall apply for a 
Certificate of Origin together with appropriate supporting documents proving that the 
good to be exported qualifies for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin, consistent 
with the domestic laws and regulations of the Party. 
 
3.  The issuing authority shall, to the best of its competence and ability, carry out 
proper examination, in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the 
Party, upon each application for a Certification of Origin to ensure that: 
 
(a)  the Certificate of Origin is duly completed and signed by the authorised 
signatory; 
 
(b)  the origin of the good is in conformity with Annex 3; 
 
(c)  other statements in the Certificate of Origin correspond to supporting 
documentary evidence submitted; and 
 
(d)  the description, quantity and weight of the good, marks and number of 
packages, number and kinds of packages, as specified, conform to the 
good to be exported. 
 
4.  Multiple items declared on the same Certificate of Origin, shall be allowed, 
provided that each item must qualify separately in its own right. 
 
 
Rule 5 
 
1.  A Certificate of Origin shall be on A4 size paper and shall be in the attached 
Form [Attachment 1] and referred to as Form AK. It shall be in the English language. 
 
2.  A Certificate of Origin shall comprise one original and two (2) copies.  The 
colors of the original and the copies of a Certificate of Origin shall be mutually agreed 
 upon by the Parties. For multiple items declaration, the Parties may use the attached 
Form  [Attachment  2]  as  additional  pages  to  the  Certificate  of  Origin,  without 
prejudice to the option given to ASEAN Member States to use the original Certificate 
of Origin. 
 
3.  A Certificate of Origin shall bear a reference number separately given by each 
place or office of issuance. The Certificate of Origin (Form AK) shall reflect the FOB 
value in box 9 only when the Regional Value Content criterion is applied2. 
 
4.  The original copy shall be forwarded by the producer and/or exporter to the 
importer  for  submission  to  the  customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party.    The 
duplicate  shall  be  retained  by  the  issuing  authority  of  the  exporting  Party.   The 
triplicate shall be retained by the producer and/or exporter.   
 
5.  The  issuing  authority  shall  endeavour  to  periodically  provide  records  of 
issuance of Certificates of Origin, including issuing number and date, producer and/or 
exporter and description of goods, to the customs authority of the importing Party. 
 
6.  In cases where a Certificate of Origin is rejected by the customs authority of 
the importing Party, the subject Certificate of Origin shall be marked accordingly in 
box 4 and the original Certificate of Origin shall be returned to the issuing authority 
within a reasonable period but not exceeding two (2) months.  The issuing authority 
shall be duly notified of the grounds for the denial of preferential tariff treatment. 
 
7.  In cases where a Certificate of Origin is not accepted, as stated in paragraph 6, 
the  customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party,  as  it  deems  fit,  should  accept the 
clarifications made by the issuing authority to accept the Certificate of Origin and 
reinstate the preferential tariff treatment. The clarifications should be detailed and 
exhaustive in addressing the grounds for denial of preferential tariff treatment raised 
by the importing Party. 
 
 
Rule 6 
 
Neither erasures nor superimpositions shall be allowed on a Certificate of 
Origin.   Any alteration shall be made by striking out the erroneous materials and 
making any addition required.  Such alterations shall  be approved by  an official 
authorised to sign a Certificate of Origin and certified by the issuing authority. Unused 
spaces shall be crossed out to prevent any subsequent addition. Alternatively, a new 
Certificate of Origin may be issued to replace the erroneous Certificate of Origin. The 
Issuing Authority shall specify the date of issuance of the originally issued Certificate 
of Origin in the new Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
Rule 7 
 
1.  Subject to the submission of all documentary requirements, a Certificate of 
Origin shall be issued prior to or at the time of shipment or soon thereafter but should 
not be more than three (3) working days from the declared shipment date whenever 
                                                
2 With respect to Cambodia and Myanmar, the Certificate of Origin (Form AK) issued to and from 
them shall reflect the FOB value regardless of the origin criteria for the transition period of two years 
from the date of entry-into-force of the amendment of this paragraph. 
 
-3-  
-4- 
the good to be exported can be considered to be originating in the territory of the 
exporting Party within the meaning of Annex 3. 
 
2.  The  issuing authority of the  intermediate Party may  issue a back-to-back 
Certificate of Origin, if an application is made by the exporter while the good is 
passing through its territory, provided that: 
 
  (a)  a valid original Certificate of Origin is presented; 
 
(b)  the importer of the intermediate Party and the exporter who applies for 
the back-to-back Certificate of Origin in the intermediate Party are the 
same; and 
 
(c)  verification procedures as set out in Rule 14 is applied. 
 
3.   Upon request of a Party, the Parties shall review the provisions of this Rule 
and the implementation thereof, and revise it as may be mutually agreed upon by the 
Parties. 
 
4.  In exceptional cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued prior to 
or at the time of shipment or soon thereafter due to involuntary errors, omissions or 
other valid causes, a Certificate of Origin may be issued retroactively but no later than 
one year from the date of shipment, bearing the words “ISSUED RETROACTIVELY”. 
 
 
Rule 8 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the producer 
and/or exporter may apply to the issuing authority for a certified true copy of the 
original to be made out on the basis of the export documents in its possession bearing 
the endorsement of the words “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY” in box 12 of a Certificate 
of Origin.  This copy shall bear the date of issuance of the original Certificate of 
Origin.  The certified true copy of a Certificate of Origin shall be issued no later than 
one year from the date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
PRESENTATION 
 
Rule 9 
 
For the purposes of claiming preferential tariff treatment, the importer shall 
submit  to the  customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party  at the time  of  import,  a 
declaration, a Certificate of Origin including supporting documents (i.e. invoices and, 
when required, the through Bill of Lading issued in the territory of the exporting Party) 
and other documents as required in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations 
of the importing Party. 
 
 
Rule 10 
 
1.  The  Certificate  of  Origin  shall,  in  accordance  with  domestic  laws  and 
regulations,  be  submitted to the  customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party  within 
twelve (12) months from the date of issuance or from the date of issuance of the 
 originally issued Certificate of Origin in case of a reissuance in accordance with Rule 
6 by the issuing authority of the exporting Party or the intermediate exporting Party in 
the case of back-to-back Certificate of Origin. 
 
2.  Where the Certificate of Origin is submitted to the customs authority of the 
importing Party after the expiration of the time-limit as stated in paragraph 1 for its 
submission, such Certificate of Origin shall be accepted when the failure to observe 
such time-limit results from force majeure or other valid causes beyond the control of 
the producer and/or exporter. 
 
3.  In all cases, the customs authority of the importing Party may accept such 
Certificate of Origin, provided that the good has been imported before the expiration 
of the time-limit of the said Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
Rule 11 
 
A Certificate of Origin shall not be required for: 
 
(a) a good originating in the territory of a Party which does not exceed 
US$ 200.00 FOB; or 
 
(b) a good sent by post from the territory of a Party which does not 
exceed US$ 200.00 FOB,  
 
provided that the importation does not form part of one or more importations that may 
reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the purpose of 
avoiding the submission of a Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
Rule 12 
 
1.  Where  the  origin  of  a  good  is  not  in  doubt,  the  discovery  of  minor 
discrepancies, between the statements made in a Certificate of Origin and those made 
in the documents submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party for the 
purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the good shall not ipso facto 
invalidate the Certificate of Origin, if it does in fact correspond to the good submitted. 
 
2.  For multiple items declared under the same Certificate of Origin, a problem 
encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect or delay the granting of 
preferential tariff treatment and customs clearance of the remaining items listed in that 
Certificate of Origin.  Paragraph 1(c) of Rule 14 may be applied to the problematic 
items. 
 
RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT 
 
Rule 13 
 
1.  For the purposes of the verification process pursuant to Rules 14 and 15, the 
producer and/or exporter applying for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin shall, 
subject  to  the  domestic  laws  and  regulations  of  the  exporting  Party,  keep  its 
supporting records for application for not less than three (3) years from the date of 
issuance of the Certificate of Origin. 
 
-5-  
-6- 
2.  The importer shall keep records relevant to the importation in accordance 
with the domestic laws and regulations of the importing Party. 
 
3.  The application for Certificates of Origin and all documents related to such 
application shall be retained by the issuing authority for not less than three (3) years 
from the date of issuance. 
 
4.  Information  relating  to  the  validity  of  a  Certificate  of  Origin  shall  be 
furnished upon request of the importing Party by an official authorised to sign a 
Certificate of Origin and certified by the appropriate government authorities. 
 
5.  Any  information  communicated  between  the  Parties  concerned  shall  be 
treated as confidential and shall be used for the validation of Certificates of Origin 
purpose only. 
 
 
VERIFICATION 
 
Rule 14 
 
1.  The importing Party may request the issuing authority of the exporting Party 
to  conduct  a  retroactive  check  at  random  and/or  when  the  importing  Party  has 
reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or as to the accuracy of the 
information regarding the true origin of the good in question or of certain parts 
thereof.    Upon  such  request,  the  issuing  authority3 of  the  exporting  Party  shall 
conduct a retroactive check on a producer’s and/or exporter’s cost statement based on 
the current cost and prices within a six-month timeframe of the specified date of 
exportation4, subject to the following procedures: 
 
(a)  the request of the  importing Party  for a retroactive check shall  be 
accompanied with the Certificate of Origin concerned and shall specify 
the  reasons  and  any  additional  information  suggesting  that  the 
particulars given on the said Certificate of Origin may be inaccurate, 
unless the retroactive check is requested on a random basis; 
(b)  the issuing authority of the exporting Party receiving a request  for 
retroactive  check  shall  respond  to  the  request  promptly  and  reply 
within two (2) months after receipt of the request; 
 
(c)  the customs authority of the importing Party may suspend provision of 
preferential tariff treatment while awaiting the result of verification. 
However,  it  may  release  the  good  to  the  importer  subject  to  any 
administrative measures deemed necessary, provided that they are not 
held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no 
suspicion of fraud; and 
 
(d)  the  issuing  authority  shall  promptly  transmit  the  results  of  the 
verification process to the importing Party which shall then determine 
                                                
3 In the case of Korea, the issuing authority referred to Rules 14 and 15, for the purpose of origin 
verification for the exported goods into the ASEAN Member countries, refers to the customs authority 
in accordance with its customs laws and regulations. 
4 With reference to the six-month timeframe, the issuing authority of the exporting Party can choose 
any six-month period, before or after the date specified, or any time in between as long as it does not 
exceed the period of six months.  
 whether or not the subject good is originating.  The entire process for 
retroactive  check,  including  the  process  of  notifying  the  issuing 
authority of the exporting Party the result of determination on whether 
or not the good is originating, shall be completed within six (6) months.  
While the process of the retroactive check is being undertaken, sub-
paragraph (c) shall be applied. 
 
2.  The customs authority of the importing Party may request an importer for 
information or documents relating to the origin of imported good in accordance with 
its domestic laws and regulations before requesting the retroactive check pursuant to 
paragraph 1. 
 
 
Rule 15 
 
1.  If the importing Party is not satisfied with the outcome of the retroactive 
check,  it  may,  under  exceptional  circumstances,  request  verification  visits  to  the 
exporting Party. 
 
2.  Prior to conducting a verification visit pursuant to paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  an importing Party shall deliver a written notification of its intention to 
conduct the verification visit simultaneously to: 
 
(i)  the producer and/or exporter whose premises are to be visited; 
 
(ii)  the issuing authority of the Party in the territory of which the 
verification visit is to occur; 
 
(iii)  the customs authority of the Party in  the territory of which the 
verification visit is to occur; and 
 
(iv)  the importer of the good subject to the verification visit; 
 
(b)  the  written  notification  mentioned  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  shall  be  as 
comprehensive as possible and shall include, among others:   
 
(i)  the name of the customs authority issuing the notification; 
 
(ii)  the name of the producer and/or exporter whose premises are to 
be visited; 
 
(iii)  the proposed date of the verification visit; 
 
(iv)  the  coverage  of  the  proposed  verification  visit,  including 
reference to the good subject to the verification; and 
 
(v)  the  names  and  designation  of  the  officials  performing  the 
verification visit; 
 
(c)  an importing Party shall obtain the written consent of the producer 
and/or exporter whose premises are to be visited; 
 
 
-7-  
-8- 
(d)  when a written consent from the producer and/or exporter is not 
obtained  within  thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of  receipt of  the 
notification pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), the notifying Party may 
deny preferential tariff treatment to the good referred to in the said 
Certificate of Origin that would have been subject to the verification 
visit; and 
 
(e)   the  issuing authority receiving the  notification  may postpone the 
proposed verification visit and notify the importing Party of such 
intention within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the 
notification.  Notwithstanding any postponement, any verification 
visit shall be carried out within sixty (60) days from the date of such 
receipt, or a longer period as the Parties may agree. 
 
3.  The Party conducting the verification visit shall provide the producer and/or 
exporter, whose good is subject to such verification, and the relevant issuing authority 
with a written determination of whether or not the good subject to such verification 
qualifies as an originating good.  
 
4.   Any  suspended  preferential  tariff  treatment  shall  be  reinstated  upon  the 
written  determination  referred  to  in  paragraph  3  that  the  good  qualifies  as  an 
originating good. 
 
5.  The producer and/or exporter shall be allowed thirty (30) days from the date 
of receipt of the written determination to provide in writing comments or additional 
information regarding the eligibility of the good for preferential tariff treatment.  If 
the good is still found to be non-originating, the final written determination shall be 
communicated to the issuing authority within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt 
of the comments/additional information from the producer and/or exporter. 
 
6.  The verification visit process, including the actual visit and the determination 
under paragraph 3 whether the good subject to such verification is originating or not, 
shall be carried out and its results communicated to the issuing authority within a 
maximum period of six (6) months from the first day the initial verification visit was 
conducted.  While the process of verification is being undertaken, paragraph 1(c) of 
Rule 14 shall be applied. 
 
 
Rule 16 
 
1.  The Parties shall maintain, in accordance with their respective domestic laws 
and regulations, the confidentiality of classified business information collected in the 
process of verification pursuant to Rules 14 and 15 and shall protect that information 
from  disclosure  that  could  prejudice  the  competitive  position  of  the  person  who 
provided the information.  
 
2.  Subject to the domestic laws and regulations, and agreement of the Parties, 
classified  information  may  only  be  disclosed  by  the  authorities  of  one  Party  to 
another, for the administration and enforcement of origin determination. 
 
 
 
 
 DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT  
 
Rule 17 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Appendix, the importing Party may deny 
claim for preferential tariff treatment or recover unpaid duties in accordance with its 
laws and regulations, where the good does not meet the requirements of Annex 3, or 
where the relevant requirements of this Appendix are not fulfilled. 
 
SPECIAL CASES 
 
Rule 18 
When destination of all or parts of the good exported to the territory of a 
specified Party is changed, before or after its arrival in the territory of that Party, the 
following shall be observed:   
 
(a)  even if the good is already imported into the territory of a specified 
importing Party, the customs authority of that importing Party shall 
endorse the Certificate of Origin to the effect for all or parts of the 
good in case where the importer makes a written application for the 
preferential tariff treatment along with the submission of the original 
Certificate of Origin; and 
 
(b)  if  the  changing  of  destination  occurs  during  transportation  to  the 
territory of the importing Party as specified in the Certificate of Origin, 
the producer and/or exporter shall apply in writing, accompanied with 
the issued Certificate of Origin, for a new issuance for all or parts of 
the good. 
 
 
Rule 19 
  For  the  purposes  of  implementing  Rule  9  of  Annex  3,  where  transportation  is 
effected through the territory of one or more intermediate countries, other than that of 
the exporting Party and the importing Party, the following shall be produced to the 
relevant government authorities of the importing Party: 
 
(a)  a through Bill of Lading issued in the territory of the exporting Party; 
 
(b)     a Certificate of Origin; 
 
(c)    a copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the good; and   
 
(d)   other  relevant  supporting  documents,  if  any,  as  evidence  that  the 
requirements of Rule 9 of Annex 3 are being complied with. 
 
 
 
-9-  
-10- 
Rule 20 
 
1.  Notwithstanding Rule 9 of Annex 3, a good sent from the territory of the 
exporting  Party  for  exhibition  in  another  country  and  sold  during  or  after  the 
exhibition for importation into the territory of a Party shall be granted preferential 
tariff treatment on the condition that the good meets the requirements as set out in 
Annex 3, provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authority of the 
importing Party that:   
 
(a)  an exporter has dispatched the good from the territory of the exporting 
Party  to  the  country  where  the  exhibition  has  been  held  and  has 
exhibited it there; 
 
(b)  the exporter has sold the goods or transferred it to a consignee in the 
territory of the importing Party; and 
 
(c)  the  good  has  been  consigned  during the  exhibition  or  immediately 
thereafter to the territory of the importing Party in the state in which it 
was sent for the exhibition. 
 
2.  For the purposes of implementing paragraph 1, a Certificate of Origin shall be 
provided to the relevant government authorities of the importing Party.  The name 
and address of the exhibition shall be indicated.  As an evidence for the identification 
of the good and the conditions under which it was exhibited, a certificate issued by the 
relevant  government  authorities  of  the  country  where  the  exhibition  took  place 
together with supporting documents prescribed in sub-paragraph (d) of Rule 19 may 
be required. 
 
3.  Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, agricultural or crafts exhibition, fair or 
similar show or display in shops or business premises with a view to the sale of 
foreign good and where the good remains under customs control during the exhibition. 
 
 
Rule 21 
 
1.  Customs authority in the importing Party may accept Certificates of Origin in 
cases where the sales invoice is issued either by a company located in a third country 
or by an exporter for the account of the said company, provided that the good meets 
the requirements of Annex 3. 
 
2.  The exporter of the goods shall indicate “third country invoicing” and such 
information as name and country of the company issuing the invoice in the Certificate 
of Origin.   
 
 
ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS 
 
Rule 22 
 
1.  When it is suspected that fraudulent acts in connection with a Certificate of 
Origin have been committed, the government authorities concerned shall cooperate in 
the action to be taken by a Party against the persons involved. 
 
 2.  Each  Party  shall  provide  legal  sanctions  for  fraudulent  acts  related  to  a 
Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
CUSTOMS CONTACT POINT 
 
Rule 23 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate a contact  point for all  matters relating to this 
Appendix. 
 
2.  When the contact point of a Party raises any matter arising from Annex 3 to 
the contact point of any other Party, the customs authority of the latter Party shall 
assign its own experts to look into the matter and to respond with its findings and 
proposed solution for resolving the matter within a reasonable period of time. 
 
3.  The contact points shall endeavor to resolve any matter raised under Annex 3 
through consultations. 
 
   
 
-11-  
-12- 
ATTACHMENT 1 
Original (Duplicate/Triplicate) 
 
   
 OVERLEAF NOTES 
 
1.  Parties which accept this form for the purpose of preferential tariff under the 
ASEAN-Korea Free Trade Agreement (AKFTA): 
 
  BRUNEI DARUSSALAM    CAMBODIA     
  INDONESIA 
REPUBLIC OF KOREA   LAOS       
MALAYSIA 
MYANMAR        PHILIPPINES     
SINGAPORE 
THAILAND        VIETNAM   
 
2.  CONDITIONS:   To enjoy preferential tariff under the AKFTA, goods sent 
to any Parties listed above: 
 
(i)  must fall within a description of goods eligible for concessions in the 
country of destination;   
 
(ii)  must comply with the consignment conditions in accordance with Rule 
9 of Annex 3 (Rules of Origin) of the AKFTA; and 
 
(iii)  must comply with the origin criteria in Annex 3 (Rules of Origin) of 
the AKFTA. 
 
3.  ORIGIN CRITERIA: For goods that meet the origin criteria, the exporter 
and/or producer must indicate in box 8 of this Form, the origin criteria met, in the 
manner shown in the following table: 
 
 
   
 
-13-  
-14- 
4.  EACH ARTICLE MUST QUALIFY: It should be noted that all the goods in 
a  consignment  must  qualify  separately  in  their  own  right.  This  is  of  particular 
relevance when similar articles of different sizes or spare parts are sent. 
 
5.  DESCRIPTION OF GOODS: The description of goods must be sufficiently 
detailed to enable the goods to be identified by the Customs Officers examining them. 
Any trade mark shall also be specified. 
 
6.    FREE-ON-BOARD (FOB) VALUE: The FOB value in  Box 9 shall  be 
reflected only when the Regional Value Content criterion is applied in determining 
the  origin  of  goods.  The  CO  (Form  AK)  issued  to  and  from  Cambodia  and 
Myanmar shall reflect the FOB value, regardless of the origin criteria used, for the 
next two (2) years upon the implementation of this new arrangement. 
 
7.  HARMONIZED SYSTEM NUMBER: The Harmonized System number shall 
be that of the importing Party. 
 
8.  EXPORTER: The term “Exporter” in box 11 may include the manufacturer or 
the producer. 
 
9.  FOR OFFICIAL USE: The Customs Authority of the importing Party must 
indicate () in the relevant boxes in column 4 whether or not preferential tariff is 
accorded.   
 
10.  THIRD COUNTRY INVOICING: In cases where invoices are issued by a 
third  country,  the  “Third  Country  Invoicing”  box  should  be  ticked  (√)  and  such 
informations  as  name  and  country  of  the  company  issuing  the  invoice  shall  be 
indicated in box 7.    
 
11.  EXHIBITIONS:  In  cases  where  goods  are  sent  from  the  territory  of  the 
exporting  Party  for  exhibition  in  another  country  and  sold  during  or  after  the 
exhibition for importation into the territory of a Party, in accordance with Rule 20 of 
the Operational Certification Procedures, the “Exhibitions” box should be ticked (√) 
and the name and address of the exhibition indicated in box 2. 
 
12.  BACK-TO-BACK CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN: In cases of Back-to-Back 
CO, in accordance with Rule 7 (2) of the Operational Certification Procedures, the 
“Back-to-Back CO” box should be ticked (√). 
 
 
   
 ATTACHMENT 2 
Original (Duplicate/Triplicate) 
(Additional Page) 
 Reference No.  
  
 
 
 
-15- 