 
Article 8 
Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Barriers and  
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
1.  Each Party undertakes not to adopt or maintain any prohibition or 
quantitative restriction on the importation of any goods of the other Parties or 
on the exportation of any goods destined for the territory of the other Parties, 
except in accordance with its WTO rights and obligations or other provisions 
in this Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures that 
they are not prepared, adopted or applied with a view to or with the effect of 
creating unnecessary obstacles to trade among the Parties.  The Parties shall 
identify non-tariff barriers other than quantitative restrictions for elimination 
as  soon  as  possible  after  the  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement.    The 
timeframe for elimination of these non-tariff barriers shall be mutually agreed 
upon by all the Parties. 
 
3.  The Parties recognises the importance of transparency of TBT and SPS 
regulations  as  in  the  WTO  Agreements  on  TBT  and  SPS,  including 
notification procedures on preparation for regulations and standards on TBT 
and on any occurrences of SPS incident to reduce their negative effect on trade 
as well as to protect human, animal or plant life or health.  Each Party shall 
designate its contact point for the purpose of responding queries related to this 
Article. 
 
4.  A working group on TBT and SPS (hereinafter referred to as the “WG 
on TBT and SPS”) under the Implementing Committee shall be established to 
deal with issues relating to the implementation of this Article and to facilitate 
trade  and  protect  human,  animal  or  plant  life  or  health  through  mutual 
cooperation  and  bilateral  consultations.    The  WG  on  TBT  and  SPS  shall 
comprise of government officials from agriculture, fisheries, livestock and 
industry agencies and other related agencies.  The WG on TBT and SPS shall 
develop its scope of work and meet at least once a year or as mutually agreed 
upon by the Parties. 
 