    
ANNEX 3  
RULES OF ORIGIN  
 
 
In determining the origin of a good eligible for preferential tariff treatment pursuant 
to Article 5 of this Agreement, the following Rules shall apply: 
 
Rule 1  
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
CIF means the value of the good imported, and includes the cost of freight and insurance up 
to the port or place of entry into the country of importation;  
 
FOB means the free-on-board value of a good, inclusive of the cost of transport from the 
producer to the port or site of final shipment abroad; 
 
goods shall include materials or products, which can be wholly obtained or produced, even if 
they are intended for later use as materials in another production process. For the purposes of 
this Annex, the terms “goods” and “products” can be used interchangeably and the terms 
“good” and “product” shall be interpreted accordingly; 
 
Harmonized System means the nomenclature of the Harmonized Commodity Description 
and Coding System defined in the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity 
Description and Coding System including all legal notes thereto, as in force and as amended 
from time to time; 
 
identical  and  interchangeable  materials  means  materials  being  of  the  same  kind  and 
commercial quality, possessing the same technical and physical characteristics, and which 
once they are incorporated into the finished good cannot be distinguished from one another 
for origin purposes by virtue of any markings, etc.; 
 
materials shall include ingredients, raw materials, parts, components, sub-assemblies used in 
the production process; 
 
non-originating goods means products or materials that do not qualify as originating under 
this Annex; 
 
originating goods means products or materials that qualify as originating under this Annex; 
 
packing materials and containers for transportation means the goods used to protect a 
good during its transportation, different from those materials or containers used for its retail 
sale; 
 
preferential  tariff  treatment  means  tariff  concessions  granted  to  originating  goods  as 
reflected by the tariff rates applicable under this Agreement; 
 
Product Specific Rules means the rules that specify that the materials have undergone a 
change in tariff classification or a specific manufacturing or processing operation, or satisfy a 
regional value content or a combination of any of these criteria;  
 
production  means  methods  of  obtaining  a  good  including  growing,  mining,  harvesting, 
raising,  breeding,  extracting,  gathering,  collecting,  capturing,  fishing,  trapping,  hunting, 
manufacturing, producing, processing or assembling a good; and 
 
third country means a non-Party or a Party which is not an importing or exporting Party, and 
the phrase “third countries” shall be interpreted accordingly. 
 
 
Rule 2  
Origin Criteria 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Agreement, a good imported into the territory of a Party shall 
be deemed to be originating and eligible for preferential tariff treatment if it conforms to the 
origin requirements under any one of the following: 
 
(a)  a good which is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of the 
exporting Party as set out and defined in Rule 3; or 
 
(b)  a good not wholly obtained or produced in the territory of the exporting Party, 
provided that the said good is eligible under Rule 4 or 5 or 6 or 7. 
 
2.  Except as provided for in Rule 7, the conditions for acquiring originating status set 
out in this Annex must be fulfilled without interruption in the territory of the exporting Party. 
 
 
Rule 3    
Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods 
 
Within the meaning of paragraph 1(a) of Rule 2, the following shall be considered to 
be wholly obtained or produced in the territory of a Party: 
 
(a)  plants and plant products harvested, picked or gathered after being grown 
there; 
 
(b)  live animals born and raised there; 
 
(c)  goods obtained from live animals referred to in sub-paragraph (b); 
 
(d)  goods  obtained  from  hunting,  trapping,  fishing,  aquaculture,  gathering  or 
capturing conducted there; 
 
(e)  minerals  and  other  naturally  occurring  substances,  not  included  in  sub-
paragraphs (a) through (d), extracted or taken from its soil, waters, seabed or 
beneath its seabed; 
 
(f)  products of sea-fishing taken by vessels registered with the Party and entitled 
to fly its flag, and other products taken by the Party or a person of that Party, 
from the waters, seabed or beneath the seabed outside the territorial waters of 
  2
  
 
the  Party,  provided  that  the  Party  has  the  rights  to  exploit1  the  natural 
resources of such waters, seabed and beneath the seabed under international 
law2; 
 
(g)  products of sea-fishing and other marine products taken from the high seas by 
vessels registered with the Party and entitled to fly its flag; 
 
(h)  goods produced and/or made on board factory ships registered with a Party 
and  entitled  to  fly  its  flag,  exclusively  from  products  referred  to  in  sub-
paragraph (g); 
 
(i)  goods taken from outer space provided that they are obtained by the Party or a 
person of that Party; 
 
(j)  articles  collected  from  there  which  can  no  longer  perform  their  original 
purpose nor are capable of being restored or repaired and are fit only for the 
disposal or recovery of parts of raw materials, or for recycling purposes; 
 
(k)  waste and scrap derived from: 
 
(i)  production there; or 
 
(ii)  used goods collected there, provided that such goods are fit only for 
the recovery of raw materials; and 
 
(l)  goods obtained or produced in the territory of the Party solely from goods 
referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) through (k). 
 
 
Rule 4    
Not Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods  
 
1.  For the purposes of paragraph 1(b) of Rule 2, a good, except those covered under 
Rule 5 as provided for in Appendix 2, shall be deemed to be originating if the regional value 
content (hereinafter referred to as the “RVC”) is not less than 40% of the FOB value or if a 
good has undergone a change in tariff classification at four digit-level (change of tariff 
heading) of the Harmonized System. 
 
2.  The formula for calculating the RVC shall be3: 
(a)  Build-Up Method 
                                                 
1 The Parties understand that for the purposes of determining the origin of products of sea-fishing and other 
products, “rights” in sub-paragraph (f) of Rule 3 include those rights of access to the fisheries resources of a 
coastal state, as accruing from agreements or other arrangements concluded between a Party and the coastal 
state at the level of governments or duly authorised private entities. 
2 “International law” in sub-paragraph (f) of Rule 3 refers to generally accepted international law such as the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
3 The Parties shall be given the flexibility to adopt the method of calculating the RVC, whether it is the build-up 
or the build-down method.  In order to promote transparency, consistency and certainty, each Party shall adhere 
to one method.  Any change in the method of calculation shall be notified to all the other Parties at least six (6) 
months prior to the adoption of the new method.  It is understood that any verification of the RVC by the 
importing Party shall be done on the basis of the method used by the exporting Party. 
  3
  
 
 
          
     VOM 
RVC = ----------------------- x 100% 
              FOB 
 
VOM  means  value  of  originating  materials,  which  includes  the  value  of 
originating materials, direct labour cost, direct overhead cost, transportation 
cost and profit 
 
(b)  Build-Down Method 
   
                 FOB - VNM 
RVC = ------------------------- x 100%  
                FOB   
 
VNM means value of non-originating materials, which shall be: (i) the CIF 
value at the time of importation of the materials, parts or goods; or (ii) the 
earliest  ascertained  price  paid  for  the  materials,  parts  or  goods  of 
undetermined  origin  in  the  territory  of  the  Party  where  the  working  or 
processing has taken place 
 
 
Rule 5  
Product Specific Rules 
 
For the purposes of Rule 2, goods which satisfy the Product Specific Rules provided 
in Appendix 2 shall be considered to be originating in the territory of the Party where 
working or processing of the goods has taken place. 
 
 
Rule 6 
Treatment for Certain Goods  
 
Notwithstanding Rules 2, 4 and 5, certain goods shall be considered to be originating 
even if the production process or operation has been undertaken in an area outside the 
territories  of  Korea  and  ASEAN  Member  Countries  (i.e.  industrial  zone)  on  materials 
exported from a Party and subsequently re-imported to that Party.  The application of this 
Rule, including the list of products and the specific procedures related to this application shall 
be mutually agreed upon by the Parties. 
 
 
Rule 7  
Accumulation 
 
Unless otherwise provided for in this Annex, a good originating in the territory of a 
Party, which is used in the territory of another Party as material for a finished good eligible 
for preferential tariff treatment, shall be considered to be originating in the territory of the 
latter Party where working or processing of the finished good has taken place. 
 
Rule 8 
  4
  
 
Non-Qualifying Operations 
 
1.  Notwithstanding any provisions in this Annex, a good shall not be considered to be 
originating in the territory of a Party if the following operations are undertaken exclusively 
by itself or in combination in the territory of that Party: 
 
(a)  preserving operations to ensure that the good remains in good condition during 
transport and storage; 
 
(b)  changes of packaging, breaking-up and assembly of packages; 
 
(c)  simple4  washing,  cleaning,  removal  of  dust,  oxide,  oil,  paint  or  other 
coverings; 
 
(d)  simple4 painting and polishing operations; 
 
(e)  husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing and glazing of cereals and rice; 
 
(f)  operations to colour sugar or form sugar lumps; 
 
(g)  simple4 peeling, stoning, or un-shelling; 
 
(h)  sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting; 
 
(i)  sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching; 
 
(j)  simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or 
boards and all other simple packaging operations; 
 
(k)  affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs on 
products or their packaging; 
 
(l)  simple mixing5 of products, whether or not of different kinds; 
 
(m)  simple4  assembly  of  parts  of  articles  to  constitute  a  complete  article  or 
disassembly of products into parts;  
 
(n)  simple4 testing or calibrations; or 
 
(o)  slaughtering of animals6 
                                                 
4 "simple" generally describes an activity which does not need special skills, machines, apparatus or equipment 
especially produced or installed for carrying out the activity. 
5 “simple mixing” generally describes an activity which does not need special skills, machines, apparatus or 
equipment especially produced or installed for carrying out the activity.  However, simple mixing does not 
include chemical reaction.  Chemical reaction means a process (including a biochemical process) which result in 
a molecule with a new structure by breaking intramolecular bonds and by forming new intramolecular bonds, or 
by altering the spatial arrangement of atoms in a molecule. 
6 Slaughtering means the mere killing of animals and subsequent processes such as cutting, chilling, freezing, 
salting, drying or smoking, for the purpose of preservation for storage and transport. 
  5
  
 
2.  A good originating in the territory of a Party shall retain its initial originating status, 
when exported from another Party, where operations undertaken have not gone beyond those 
referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
 
Rule 9 
Direct Consignment 
 
1.  Preferential tariff treatment shall be applied to a good satisfying the requirements of 
this Annex and which is transported directly between the territories of the exporting Party and 
the importing Party. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a good of which transport involves transit through one 
or more intermediate third countries, other than the territories of the exporting Party and the 
importing Party, shall be considered to be consigned directly, provided that: 
 
(a)  the transit is justified for geographical reason or by consideration related 
exclusively to transport requirement; 
 
(b)  the good has not entered into trade or consumption there; and 
 
(c)  the good has not undergone any operation other than unloading and reloading 
or any operation required to keep it in good condition. 
 
 
Rule 10 
De Minimis 
 
1.  A good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification shall be considered as 
originating if: 
(a)  for a good, other than that provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the 
Harmonized System, the value of all non-originating materials used in its 
production that do not undergo the required change in tariff classification does 
not exceed ten (10) percent of the FOB value of the good;  
(b)  for a good provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonized System, 
the weight of all non-originating materials used in its production that do not 
undergo the required change in tariff classification does not exceed ten (10) 
percent of the total weight of the good; 
and the good specified in sub-paragraph (a) and (b) meets all other applicable criteria set 
forth in this Annex for qualifying as an originating good. 
 
2.  The value of non-originating materials referred to in paragraph 1 shall, however, be 
included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable RVC requirement for the 
good. 
 
 
  6
  
 
Rule 11   
Treatment of Packaging and Packing Materials 
 
1.  (a)  If a good is subject to the RVC criterion as set out in Rule 4, the value of the 
packaging and packing materials for retail sale shall be taken into account in 
its determination of origin, where the packaging and packing materials are 
considered to be forming a whole with the good. 
 
(b)  Where  sub-paragraph  (a)  is  not  applicable,  the  packaging  and  packing 
materials for retail sale, when classified together with the packaged good, shall 
not be taken into account in considering whether all non-originating materials 
used in the manufacture of the good fulfil the criterion corresponding to a 
change in tariff classification of the said good. 
  
2.  Packing materials and containers for transportation of a good shall not be taken into 
account in determining the origin of the good. 
 
 
Rule 12   
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
The origin of accessories, spare parts, tools, and instructional or other informational 
materials presented with a good shall not be taken into account in determining the origin of 
the  good,  provided  that  such  accessories,  spare  parts,  tools,  and  instructional  or  other 
informational materials are classified with the good and their customs duties are collected 
with the good by the importing Party. 
 
Rule 13 
Neutral Elements 
 
In order to determine whether a good originates, it shall not be necessary to determine 
the origin of the following which might be used in its production and not incorporated into 
the good: 
 
(a)  fuel and energy; 
 
(b)  tools, dies and moulds; 
 
(c)  spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings; 
 
(d)  lubricants,  greases,  compounding  materials  and  other  materials  used  in 
production or used to operate equipment and buildings; 
 
(e)  gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and supplies; 
 
(f)  equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good; and 
 
  7
  
 
(g)  any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but of which use in the 
production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that 
production. 
 
 
Rule 14 
Identical and Interchangeable Materials 
 
1.   For the purposes of establishing the origin of a good, when the good is manufactured 
utilising originating and non-originating materials, mixed or physically combined, the origin 
of such materials can be determined by generally accepted accounting principles of inventory 
management practiced in the territory of the exporting Party. 
 
2.   Once a decision has been taken on the inventory management method, that method 
shall be used throughout the fiscal year. 
 
 
Rule 15   
Certificate of Origin 
 
A claim that a good shall be accepted as eligible for preferential tariff treatment shall 
be supported by a Certificate of Origin issued by a competent authority designated by the 
exporting Party and notified to all the other Parties in accordance with the Operational 
Certification Procedures, as set out in Appendix 1. 
 
 
Rule 16   
Consultations, Review and Modification 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  consult  regularly  to  ensure  that  the  Rules  in  this  Annex  are 
administered  effectively,  uniformly  and  consistently  in  order  to  achieve  the  spirit  and 
objectives of this Annex. 
 
2.  This Annex may be reviewed and modified as and when necessary upon request of a 
Party and may be open to such reviews and modifications as may be agreed upon in the 
Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement. 
 
 
Rule 17 
Institutional Arrangement 
 
Subject to Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement, the Korea-ASEAN Rules of 
Origin Committee shall be established and be responsible for administering and enforcing the 
general rules of origin and customs procedures as provided for in this Annex and endeavour 
to resolve any differences arising therefrom. 
 
 
 
 
 
  8
  
 
Rule 18 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
1.  In the case of differences concerning origin determination, classification of a good or 
other  matters  relevant  to  the  implementation  of  this  Annex,  the  government  authorities 
concerned of the importing Party and the exporting Party shall consult each other with a view 
to resolving the differences, and the result shall be notified to all the other Parties for 
information. 
 
2.  Where no mutually satisfactory solution to the differences has been reached through 
the consultations mentioned in paragraph 1, the Party concerned may invoke the dispute 
settlement procedures as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under 
the Framework Agreement. 
 
  9
 