CHAPTER FOURTEEN 
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.1 
 
Objective 
 
The objective of this Chapter is to establish an effective and efficient mechanism for 
avoiding and settling disputes between the Parties concerning the interpretation and 
application of this Agreement with a view to reaching, where possible, a mutually 
acceptable solution. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.2 
 
Scope 
 
This Chapter applies to any dispute between the Parties concerning the interpretation and 
application of the provisions of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 1 
 SECTION B 
 
CONSULTATIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.3 
 
Consultations 
 
1.  The Parties shall endeavour to resolve any dispute concerning the interpretation and 
application of the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope) by entering into 
consultations in good faith with the aim of reaching a mutually agreed solution. 
 
2.  A Party shall seek consultations by means of a written request to the other Party, 
copied to the Trade Committee, which shall give the reasons for requesting consultations, 
including the identification of the measures at issue, the applicable provisions referred to in 
Article 14.2 (Scope), and the reasons for considering the measures as incompatible with 
such provisions. 
 
3.  Consultations shall be held within 30 days of the date of receipt of the request and, 
unless the Parties agree otherwise, shall take place on the territory of the Party complained 
against. The consultations shall be deemed to be concluded within 60 days of the date of 
receipt of the request, unless the Parties agree otherwise. Consultations shall be 
confidential, and shall be without prejudice to the rights of either Party in any further 
proceedings. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 2 
 4.  Consultations on matters of urgency, including those regarding perishable goods 
and, where appropriate, seasonal goods or services, shall be held within 15 days of the date 
of receipt of the request, and shall be deemed concluded within 30 days of the date of 
receipt of the request, unless the Parties agree otherwise. 
 
5.  If the Party to which the request is made does not respond to the request for 
consultations within ten days of the date of its receipt, or if consultations are not held 
within the timeframes laid down in paragraph 3 or in paragraph 4 respectively, or if 
consultations have been concluded and no mutually agreed solution has been reached, the 
complaining Party may request the establishment of an arbitration panel in accordance with 
Article 14.4 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure). 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 3 
 SECTION C 
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES 
 
 
SUB-SECTION A 
 
ARBITRATION PROCEDURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.4 
 
Initiation of Arbitration Procedure 
 
1.  Where the Parties have failed to resolve a dispute by recourse to consultations as 
provided for in Article 14.3 (Consultations), the complaining Party may request the 
establishment of an arbitration panel in accordance with this Article. 
 
2.  The request for the establishment of an arbitration panel shall be made in writing to 
the Party complained against and to the Trade Committee. The complaining Party shall 
identify in its request the specific measure at issue, and it shall explain how such measure 
constitutes a breach of the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope) in a manner 
sufficient to clearly present the legal basis for the complaint. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 4 
 ARTICLE 14.5 
 
Establishment of the Arbitration Panel 
 
1.  An arbitration panel shall be composed of three arbitrators. 
 
2.  Within five days of the date of receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Article 14.4 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure) by the Party complained against, the Parties 
shall enter into consultations in order to agree on the composition of the arbitration panel. 
 
3.  In the event that the Parties are unable to agree on the choice of chairperson of the 
arbitration panel within ten days of entering into the consultations referred to in paragraph 
2, within 20 days of entering into consultations referred to in paragraph 2, the chairperson 
of the Trade Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select one arbitrator who will 
serve as a chairperson by lot from the list referred to under paragraph 1 of Article 14.20 
(Lists of Arbitrators). 
 
4.  In the event that the Parties are unable to agree on the arbitrators within ten days of 
entering into the consultations referred to in paragraph 2: 
 
(a)  each Party may select one arbitrator, who will not act as a chairperson, from the 
individuals on the list established under paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 (Lists of 
Arbitrators), within 15 days of entering into the consultations referred to in paragraph 
2; and 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 5 
 (b)  if either Party fails to select an arbitrator under subparagraph 4(a), the chairperson of 
the Trade Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select any remaining 
arbitrator by lot from among the individuals proposed by that Party pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators), within 20 days of entering into 
consultations referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
5.  Should the list provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators) not 
be established at the time required pursuant to paragraph 4: 
 
(a)  where both Parties have proposed individuals pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators), each Party may select one arbitrator, who will not 
act as a chairperson, from among the individuals proposed, within 15 days of entering 
into the consultations referred to in paragraph 2. If a Party fails to select an arbitrator, 
the chairperson of the Trade Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select the 
arbitrator by lot from among the individuals proposed by the Party which failed to 
select its arbitrator; or 
 
(b)  where only one Party has proposed individuals pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators), each Party may select one arbitrator, who will not 
act as a chairperson, from among the individuals proposed, within 15 days of entering 
into the consultations referred to in paragraph 2. If a Party fails to select an arbitrator, 
the chairperson of the Trade Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select the 
arbitrator by lot from among the individuals proposed. 
 
6.  Should the list provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators) not 
be established at the time required for the purposes of paragraph 3, the chairperson shall 
be selected by lot from among former Members of the WTO Appellate Body, none of whom 
shall be natural persons of a Party. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 6 
 7.  The date of establishment of the arbitration panel shall be the date on which the last 
of the three arbitrators is selected. 
 
8.  The replacement of arbitrators shall take place only for the reasons detailed in Rules 
19 to 25 of Annex 14-A and in accordance with the procedures thereunder. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.6 
 
Preliminary Ruling on Urgency 
 
If a Party so requests, the arbitration panel shall give a preliminary ruling within ten days of 
its establishment on whether it deems the case to be urgent. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.7 
 
Interim Panel Report 
 
1.  The arbitration panel shall issue an interim report to the Parties setting out the 
findings of fact, the applicability of relevant provisions of this Agreement, and the basic 
rationale behind any findings and recommendations, not later than 90 days from the date of 
establishment of the arbitration panel. Where the arbitration panel considers that this 
deadline cannot be met, the chairperson of the arbitration panel must notify the Parties and 
the Trade Committee in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the date on which the 
arbitration panel plans to issue its interim report. Under no circumstances should the 
arbitration panel issue its interim report later than 120 days after the date of its 
establishment. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 7 
 2.  Any Party may submit a written request for the arbitration panel to review specific 
aspects of the interim report within 30 days of its notification. 
 
3.  In cases of urgency, including those involving perishable goods or, where 
appropriate, seasonal goods or services, the arbitration panel shall make every effort to 
issue its interim report within half of the period allowed under paragraph 1, and any Party 
may submit a written request for the arbitration panel to review specific aspects of the 
interim report within 15 days of its notification. 
 
4.  After considering any written comments by the Parties on the interim report, the 
arbitration panel may modify its report and make any further examination it considers 
appropriate. The findings of the final ruling of the arbitration panel shall include a sufficient 
discussion of the arguments made at the interim review stage, and shall clearly address the 
written comments of the two Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.8 
 
Arbitration Panel Ruling 
 
1.  The arbitration panel shall issue its ruling to the Parties and to the Trade Committee 
within 150 days from the date of the establishment of the arbitration panel. Where it 
considers that this deadline cannot be met, the chairperson of the arbitration panel shall 
notify the Parties and the Trade Committee in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and 
the date on which the arbitration panel plans to issue its ruling. Under no circumstances 
should the arbitration panel issue its ruling later than 180 days after the date of its 
establishment. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 8 
 2.  In cases of urgency, including those involving perishable goods or, where 
appropriate, seasonal goods or services, the arbitration panel shall make every effort to 
issue its ruling within 75 days of the date of its establishment. Under no circumstances 
should the arbitration panel issue its ruling later than 90 days after the date of its 
establishment. 
 
 
SUB-SECTION B 
 
COMPLIANCE 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.9 
 
Compliance with the Arbitration Panel Ruling 
 
Each Party shall take any measure necessary to comply in good faith with the ruling of the 
arbitration panel, and the Parties shall endeavour to agree on the period of time to comply 
with the ruling. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 9 
 ARTICLE 14.10 
 
Reasonable Period of Time for Compliance 
 
1.  No later than 30 days after the receipt of the notification of the ruling of the 
arbitration panel to the Parties, the Party against which the complaint was made shall notify 
the complaining Party and the Trade Committee of the time it will require to comply with 
the ruling of the arbitration panel (hereinafter referred to as "reasonable period of time"), if 
immediate compliance is not possible. 
 
2.  If there is disagreement between the Parties on the reasonable period of time for 
compliance with the ruling of the arbitration panel, within 20 days of the receipt of the 
notification made under paragraph 1 by the Party complained against, the complaining 
Party shall request in writing that the original arbitration panel determine the reasonable 
period of time. Such request shall be notified simultaneously to the other Party and to the 
Trade Committee. The original arbitration panel shall issue its ruling to the Parties, and shall 
notify the Trade Committee thereof, within 20 days of the date of the submission of the 
request. 
 
3.  In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures set out in Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. 
The time limit for issuing the ruling shall be 35 days from the date of the submission of the 
request referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
4.  The Party against which the complaint was made shall inform the complaining Party 
in writing of its progress in complying with the ruling of the arbitration panel at least one 
month before the expiry of the reasonable period of time. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 10 
 5.  The reasonable period of time may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.11 
 
Review of Any Measure Taken  
to Comply with the Arbitration Panel Ruling 
 
1.  The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party and the Trade 
Committee, before the end of the reasonable period of time, of any measures that it has 
taken to comply with the ruling of the arbitration panel. 
 
2.  In the event that there is disagreement between the Parties concerning the 
existence of any measures notified under paragraph 1 or the consistency of such measures 
with the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope), the complaining Party may request in 
writing that the original arbitration panel rule on the matter. Such request shall identify the 
specific measure at issue and the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope) with which it 
considers that measure to be inconsistent, in a manner sufficient to present the legal basis 
for the complaint clearly. Such request shall also explain how the measure in question is 
inconsistent with the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope). The original arbitration 
panel shall notify its ruling within 45 days of the date of the submission of the request. 
 
3.  In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures set out in Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. 
The time limit for issuing the ruling shall be 60 days from the date of the submission of the 
request referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 11 
 ARTICLE 14.12 
 
Temporary Remedies in Case of Non-compliance 
 
1.  If the Party complained against fails to notify any measure taken to comply with the 
ruling of the arbitration panel before the expiry of the reasonable period of time, or if the 
arbitration panel rules that no such measures were taken or that the measure notified 
under paragraph 1 of Article 14.11 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply with the 
Arbitration Panel Ruling) is inconsistent with that Party's obligations under the provisions 
referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope), the Party against which the complaint was made shall 
enter into negotiations with the complaining Party with a view to reaching a mutually 
acceptable agreement on compensation. 
 
2.  If no agreement on compensation is reached within 30 days of the end of the 
reasonable period of time or within 30 days of the issuance of the ruling of the arbitration 
panel under Article 14.11 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply with the Arbitration 
Panel Ruling) that no measures were taken to comply with the ruling of the arbitration panel 
or that a measure taken to comply with that ruling is inconsistent with the provisions 
referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope), the complaining Party shall be entitled, upon notification 
to the other Party and to the Trade Committee, to suspend obligations arising from any 
provision referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope) at a level equivalent to the nullification or 
impairment caused by the violation. The notification shall specify the level of obligations 
that the complaining Party intends to suspend. The complaining Party may implement the 
suspension at any moment after the expiry of ten days after the date of receipt of the 
notification by the Party complained against, unless the Party complained against has 
requested arbitration under paragraph 3. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 12 
 3.  If the Party complained against considers that the level of suspension is not 
equivalent to the nullification or impairment caused by the violation, it may request in 
writing that the original arbitration panel rule on the matter. Such request shall be notified 
to the complaining Party and to the Trade Committee before the expiry of the ten-day 
period referred to in paragraph 2. The original arbitration panel, having sought, if 
appropriate, the opinion of experts, shall notify its ruling on the level of the suspension of 
obligations to the Parties and to the Trade Committee within 30 days of the date of the 
submission of the request. Obligations shall not be suspended until the original arbitration 
panel has notified its ruling, and any suspension shall be consistent with the ruling of the 
arbitration panel. 
 
4.  In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures laid down in Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. 
The period for issuing the ruling shall be 45 days from the date of the submission of the 
request referred to in paragraph 3. 
 
5.  The suspension of obligations shall be temporary and shall not be applied after: 
 
(a)  the Parties have reached a mutually agreed solution pursuant to Article 14.15 
(Mutually Agreed Solution); or 
 
(b)  the Parties have reached an agreement on whether the measure notified under 
paragraph 1 of Article 14.13 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply After the 
Suspension of Obligations) brings the Party complained against into conformity with 
the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope); or 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 13 
 (c)  any measure found to be inconsistent with the provisions referred to in 
Article 14.2 (Scope) has been withdrawn or amended so as to bring it into conformity 
with those provisions, as ruled under paragraph 2 of Article 14.13 (Review of Any 
Measure Taken to Comply After the Suspension of Obligations). 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.13 
 
Review of Any Measure Taken  
to Comply After the Suspension of Obligations 
 
1.  The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party and the Trade 
Committee of any measure it has taken to comply with the ruling of the arbitration panel 
and of its request for the termination of the suspension of obligations applied by the 
complaining Party. 
 
2.  If the Parties do not reach an agreement on whether the notified measure brings the 
Party complained against into conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 
(Scope) within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notification, the complaining Party shall 
request in writing that the original arbitration panel rule on the matter. Such request shall 
be notified simultaneously to the other Party and the Trade Committee. The ruling of the 
arbitration panel shall be notified to the Parties and the Trade Committee within 45 days of 
the date of the submission of the request. If the arbitration panel rules that any measure 
taken to comply is in conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope), the 
suspension of obligations shall be terminated. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 14 
 SUB-SECTION C 
 
COMMON PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.14 
 
Suspension and Termination of Arbitration Procedures 
 
1.  The arbitration panel shall, at the written request of both Parties, suspend its work 
at any time for a period agreed by the Parties, which shall not exceed twelve months. The 
arbitration panel shall resume its work at the end of this agreed period at the written 
request of the complaining Party, or before the end of this agreed period at the written 
request of both Parties. If the complaining Party does not request the resumption of the 
arbitration panel's work before the expiry of the agreed period, the dispute settlement 
procedures initiated pursuant to this Section shall be deemed terminated. Subject to Article 
14.21 (Relation with WTO Obligations), the suspension and termination of the arbitration 
panel's work are without prejudice to the rights of either Party in other proceedings. 
 
2.  At any time, the Parties may agree in writing to terminate the dispute settlement 
procedures initiated pursuant to this Section. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 15 
 ARTICLE 14.15 
 
Mutually Agreed Solution 
 
The Parties may reach a mutually agreed solution to a dispute under this Chapter at any 
time. They shall notify the Trade Committee and the arbitration panel, if any, of such 
solution. If the solution requires approval pursuant to the relevant domestic procedures of 
either Party, the notification shall refer to this requirement, and the dispute settlement 
procedure initiated pursuant to this Section shall be suspended. The procedure shall be 
terminated if such approval is not required or upon notification of the completion of any 
such domestic procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.16 
 
Rules of Procedure 
 
1.  Dispute settlement procedures under this Chapter shall be governed by Annex 14-A. 
 
2.  Any meetings of the arbitration panel shall be open to the public in accordance with 
Annex 14-A. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 16 
 ARTICLE 14.17 
 
Submission of Information 
 
1.  At the request of a Party, or upon its own initiative, the arbitration panel may obtain 
information from any source it deems appropriate for the arbitration panel proceedings, 
including from the Parties involved in the dispute. The arbitration panel also has the right to 
seek the relevant opinions of experts as it deems appropriate. The arbitration panel shall 
consult the Parties before choosing such experts. Any information obtained in this manner 
must be disclosed to the Parties and submitted for their comments. 
 
2.  Interested natural and legal persons of the Parties are authorised to submit amicus 
curiae briefs to the arbitration panel in accordance with Annex 14-A. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.18 
 
Rules of Interpretation 
 
The arbitration panel shall interpret the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope) in 
accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law, including 
those codified in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. Where an obligation under 
this Agreement is identical to an obligation under the WTO Agreement, the arbitration panel 
shall take into account any relevant interpretation established in rulings of the WTO Dispute 
Settlement Body (hereinafter referred to as the "DSB"). The rulings of the arbitration panel 
shall not add to or diminish the rights and obligations provided in the provisions referred to 
in Article 14.2 (Scope). 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 17 
 ARTICLE 14.19 
 
Arbitration Panel Decisions and Rulings 
 
1.  The arbitration panel shall make every effort to take any decision by consensus. 
Where, nevertheless, a decision cannot be reached by consensus, the matter at issue shall 
be decided by majority vote. 
 
2.  Any ruling of the arbitration panel shall be binding on the Parties and shall not create 
any rights or obligations to physical or legal persons. The ruling shall set out the findings of 
fact, the applicability of the relevant provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope), and the 
rationale behind any findings and conclusions that it makes. The Trade Committee shall 
make the ruling of the arbitration panel publicly available in its entirety, unless it decides 
not to do so in order to ensure the confidentiality of any information designated by either 
Party as confidential. 
 
 
SECTION D 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.20 
 
Lists of Arbitrators 
 
1.  Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall establish a list of five 
individuals who are willing and able to serve as the chairperson of an arbitration panel 
referred to in Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 18 
 2.  No later than six months after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Trade 
Committee shall establish a list of at least ten individuals who are willing and able to serve 
as arbitrators. Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, each Party shall propose at least 
five individuals to serve as arbitrators. 
 
3.  The Trade Committee will ensure that the list of individuals to serve as chairpersons 
or arbitrators, established pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 respectively, are maintained. 
 
4.  Arbitrators shall have specialised knowledge of or experience in law and 
international trade or in the settlement of disputes arising under international trade 
agreements. They shall be independent, shall serve in their individual capacities, shall not be 
affiliated with the government of either Party, and shall comply with Annex 14-B. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.21 
 
Relation with WTO Obligations 
 
1.  Recourse to the dispute settlement provisions of this Chapter shall be without 
prejudice to any action in the WTO framework, including dispute settlement proceedings. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 19 
 2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, where a Party has initiated dispute settlement 
proceedings with regard to a particular measure, either under this Chapter or under the 
WTO Agreement, it may not institute dispute settlement proceedings regarding the same 
measure in the other forum until the first proceedings have ended. Moreover, neither Party 
shall initiate dispute settlement proceedings under both this Chapter and under the WTO 
Agreement unless substantially different obligations under both agreements are in dispute, 
or unless the selected forum fails for procedural or jurisdictional reasons to make findings 
on the claim seeking redress in relation to that obligation, provided that the failure of the 
forum is not the result of a failure of a disputing Party to act diligently. 
 
3.  For the purposes of paragraph 2: 
 
(a)  dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO Agreement shall be deemed to be 
initiated by a Party's request for the establishment of a panel under Article 6 of the 
DSU and shall be deemed to be ended when the DSB adopts the Panel's report, and 
the Appellate Body's report as the case may be, under Articles 16 and 17(14) of the 
DSU; and 
 
(b)  dispute settlement proceedings under this Chapter shall be deemed to be initiated by 
a Party's request for the establishment of an arbitration panel under paragraph 1 of 
Article 14.4 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure) and shall be deemed to be ended 
when the arbitration panel issues its ruling to the Parties and to the Trade Committee 
under paragraph 2 of Article 14.8 (Arbitration Panel Ruling) or when the parties have 
reached a mutually agreed solution under Article 14.15 (Mutually Agreed Solution). 
 
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude a Party from implementing the suspension of 
obligations authorised by the DSB. The WTO Agreement shall not be invoked to preclude a 
Party from suspending obligations as provided for under this Chapter. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 20 
 ARTICLE 14.22 
 
Time Limits 
 
1.  All time limits laid down in this Chapter, including the limits for the arbitration panels 
to notify their rulings, shall be counted in calendar days, the first day being the day following 
the acts or facts to which they refer, unless otherwise specified. 
 
2.  Any time limit referred to in this Chapter may be modified by mutual agreement of 
the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14.23 
 
Review and Modification of the Chapter 
 
The Parties may, by decision in the Trade Committee, modify this Chapter and Annexes 14-A 
and 14-B. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 14 - 21 
 