CHAPTER ONE 
 
OBJECTIVE AND GENERAL DEFINITIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.1 
 
Objective 
 
The objective of this Agreement is to enhance the investment climate between the Parties 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1.2 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement: 
 
1.  "covered investment" means an investment which is directly or indirectly owned or 
controlled by a covered investor of one Party in the territory of the other Party1; 
 
                                                           
1  For greater certainty, investments made "in the territory of the other Party" shall include investments 
made in an exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, as provided in the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982. 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 1 - 1 
 2.  "investment" means every kind of asset which has the characteristics of an 
investment, including such characteristics as the commitment of capital or other 
resources, the expectation of gain or profit, the assumption of risk or a certain 
duration. Forms that an investment may take include: 
 
(a)  tangible or intangible, movable or immovable property as well as any other 
property rights, such as leases, mortgages, liens, and pledges; 
 
(b)  an enterprise including a branch, shares, stocks and other forms of equity 
participation in an enterprise, including rights derived therefrom; 
 
(c)  bonds, debentures, and loans and other debt instruments, including rights 
derived therefrom; 
 
(d)  other financial assets, including derivatives, futures and options; 
 
(e)  turnkey, construction, management, production, concession, revenue-sharing, 
and other similar contracts; 
 
(f)  claims to money or to other assets, or to any contractual performance having an 
economic value; 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 1 - 2 
 (g)  intellectual property rights2 and goodwill; and 
 
(h)  licenses, authorisations, permits, and similar rights conferred pursuant to 
domestic law, including any concessions to search for, cultivate, extract or 
exploit natural resources.3 
 
Returns that are invested shall be treated as investments, and any alteration of the 
form in which assets are invested or reinvested shall not affect their qualification as 
investments. 
 
3.  "covered investor" means a natural person4 or a juridical person of a Party that has 
made an investment in the territory of the other Party; 
 
                                                           
2  "intellectual property rights" means: 
(a) all categories of intellectual property that are the subject of Sections 1 through 7 of Part II of 
the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights contained in Annex 1C 
of the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "TRIPS Agreement") namely: 
(i)  copyright and related rights; 
(ii)  patents (which, in the case of the Union, include rights derived from supplementary 
protection certificates); 
(iii)  trademarks; 
(iv)  designs; 
(v)  layout-designs (topographies) of integrated circuits; 
(vi)  geographical indications; 
(vii)  protection of undisclosed information; and 
(b) plant variety rights. 
3  For greater certainty, an order or judgment entered in a judicial or administrative action shall not 
constitute in itself an investment. 
4  The term "natural person" includes natural persons permanently residing in Latvia who are not 
citizens of Latvia or any other state, but who are entitled, under the laws and regulations of Latvia, to receive a 
non-citizen's passport (Alien's Passport). 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 1 - 3 
 4.  "natural person of a Party" means a national of Singapore, or of one of the Member 
States of the Union, according to their respective legislation; 
 
5.  "juridical person" means any legal entity duly constituted or otherwise organised 
under applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned 
or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, 
sole proprietorship, or association; 
 
6.  "Union juridical person" or "Singapore juridical person" means a juridical person set 
up in accordance with the law of the Union or a Member State of the Union, or the 
law of Singapore, respectively, and having its registered office, central administration5, 
or principal place of business in the territory of the Union or Singapore, respectively. 
Should the juridical person have only its registered office or central administration in 
the territory of the Union or of Singapore, respectively, it shall not be considered as a 
Union juridical person or Singapore juridical person, respectively, unless it engages in 
substantive business operations6 in the territory of the Union or the territory of 
Singapore, respectively. 
 
                                                           
5  "Central administration" means the head office where ultimate decision-making takes place. 
6  The EU Party understands that the concept of "effective and continuous link" with the economy of a 
Member State of the Union enshrined in Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is 
equivalent to the concept of "substantive business operations". Accordingly, for a juridical person set up in 
accordance with the laws of Singapore and having only its registered office or central administration in the 
territory of Singapore, the EU Party shall only extend the benefits of this Agreement if that juridical person 
possesses an effective and continuous economic link with the economy of Singapore. 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 1 - 4 
 7.  "measure" means any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or practice; 
 
8.  "treatment" or "measure"7 adopted or maintained by a Party includes those taken by: 
 
(a)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(b)  non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, 
regional or local governments or authorities; 
 
9.  "returns" means all amounts yielded by or derived from an investment or 
reinvestment, including profits, dividends, capital gains, royalties, interests, payments 
in connection with intellectual property rights, payments in kind and all other lawful 
income; 
 
10.  "freely convertible currency" means a currency which is widely traded in international 
foreign exchange markets and widely used in international transactions; 
 
11.  "establishment" means: 
 
(a)  the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a juridical person; or 
 
(b)  the creation or maintenance of a branch or representative office, 
 
with a view to establishing or maintaining lasting economic links within the territory of 
a Party for the purpose of performing an economic activity; 
 
                                                           
7  For greater certainty, the Parties understand that the terms "treatment" or "measure" include failures 
to act. 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 1 - 5 
 12.  "economic activity" includes any activities of an economic nature except activities 
carried out in the exercise of governmental authority, i.e., activities not carried out on 
a commercial basis or in competition with one or more economic operators; 
 
13.  "EU Party" means the Union or its Member States, or the Union and its Member 
States, within their respective areas of competence as derived from the Treaty on 
European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 1 - 6 
 