ASEAN-CHINA AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES  ANNEX 1/SC2   INDONESIA Schedule of Specific Commitments  AC-TIS/SC2/INO  INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 2 I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS ALL SECTORS INCLUDED IN THIS SCHEDULE  (3) Commercial Presence of the foreign service provider(s) may be in the form of joint venture and/or representative office, unless mentioned otherwise.  Joint venture should meet the following requirements: (i) should be in the form of Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT),  (ii) not more than 49% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT), may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) Land Acquisition Undang-Undang Pokok Agraria (Land Law) No. 5 of 1960 stipulates that no foreigners (juridical and natural persons) are allowed to own land.  However, a joint venture enterprise could hold the right for land use (Hak Guna Usaha) and building rights (Hak Guna Bangunan), and they may rent/lease land and property.  Any juridical and natural persons should meet professional qualification requirements.      (4) Subject to Indonesian Labour and Immigration Laws and Regulations, only directors, managers and technical experts/advisors, unless mentioned otherwise, are allowed to stay for two years and could be extended for a maximum two times subject to two years extension each time.  Manager and technical experts (intra corporate transfer) are allowed based on an economic needs test.  (4) Expatriate Charges Any foreign natural persons supplying services are subject to charges levied by Governments   Labour Laws and Regulations.   Any expatriate employed by a joint-venture enterprise, representatives office, and/or other types of juridical person and/or an individual services provider must hold a valid working permit issued by the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 3  The entry and temporary stay of business visitor(s) is (are) permitted for a period of 60 days and could be extended maximum for 120 days.       Definitions:  "Director": One or a group of persons entrusted by the shareholders of a services providing entity with the final overall control and direction of the enterprise, and legally responsible to act on behalf of the enterprises inside and/or outside of the court.  "Manager": Senior employee of a service supplier who primarily directs the management of the organization, receiving general supervision or direction principally from the board of directors of the business, including directing the service supplier or a department or sub-division thereof, supervising or controlling the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial employee or having the authority to hire or fire or recommend such or other personnel actions.  "Technical Expert/Advisor": Person employed by a service supplier who possesses a standard of high or common (i) qualifications referring to a type of work or trade requiring specific technical knowledge or (ii) knowledge essential or proprietal to the service, research equipment, techniques or management.  "Joint Operator": A joint operation is an undertaking between one or several foreign and Indonesian enterprises of temporary nature, to handle one or several project/businesses without establishing a new statutory body according to Indonesian laws  "Joint venture Enterprise": A joint venture enterprise is a legal entity organized under Indonesian law and having its domicile in Indonesia, in the form of cooperation between foreign capital and Indonesian ( national) capital.  "Contract Management": Contract management is a contract organized under Indonesian law in the form of cooperation on management of temporary nature between Indonesian (national) capital and foreign capital.  Business visitor(s) is (are) natural person staying in Indonesia for the purpose of participating in business meeting, business contacts including negotiations for the sales of services and/or other similar activities including those who prepare for the establishment of a commercial presence in Indonesia, without acquiring remuneration and/or any other direct income from within Indonesia, and are not engaged in making direct sales or supplying services to general public. INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 4  II. SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES   A. General construction work for building  Construction work for building (CPC 512 except CPC 51210) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 5  B. General construction work for civil engineering   Construction work for civil engineering  (CPC 513) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 6  C. Installation and assembly work  Assembly and erection of prefabricated construction (CPC 514)  (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 7  D. Other  - Pre-erection work at construction system  (CPC 511 except CPC     51110 and 51113)  (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 8  - Steel binding and erection (incl. welding) (CPC 51550) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 9  - Renting Services related to equipment for construction or demolition of building or civil engineering works, with operator (CPC 518) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 10  - Foundation work including pile driving  (CPC 51510) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 11  - Gas fitting construction work  (CPC 51630) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 12  - Fire alarm construction work (CPC 51642)  (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 13  - Burglar alarm system construction work  (CPC 51643) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 14  - Lift and escalator construction work (CPC 51691) (1) Unbound* (1) Unbound*      (2) None (2) Unbound     (3) (a) Joint operation by establishing a representative office in Indonesia. License for representative office shall be valid for 3 years and can be extended.  (b) Joint venture company by fulfilling the requirements as specified in the Horizontal Section and the Foreign Capital Investment Law.  Not more than 55% of the capital share of the Limited Liability Enterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT) may be owned by foreign partner(s). (3) (a)1.  License fee requirement 2. Registered foreign company shall form a joint operation with local partner(s) which is (are) registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big.   (b) Local partner(s) in joint venture shall be   registered by Construction Services Development Board and having qualification A/Big     (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 15  TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES Hotel (CPC 64110) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) In Eastern Part of Indonesia, Bengkulu, Jambi, 100% of capital share can be owned by foreign investor  (3) a. Higher paid-up capital is required of foreign services suppliers than of domestic suppliers. This measure will be eliminated in the year 2020. b. Only 3,4, or 5 starred hotels are permitted     (4) Unbound, except for: a. Top Management Level in Hotel business comprised of: - General Manager - Food and Beverage Manager - Resident Manager - Comptroller - Marketing Director b. Highly-skilled Professionals comprised of: - Executive Chef - Sous Chef - Specialty Cook  (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section       INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 16  Meal Serving Services with Full Restaurant Services (CPC 64210)  (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Unbound, except in certain parts of East Indonesia (Sulawesi, Papua, Mollucas, Nusa Tenggara), foreign equity participation is permitted up to 49%  (3) Subject to prevailing local government’s laws regarding to the moral or public order in accordance with Article XIV (a) of the GATS      (4) Unbound, except for: - Top Management Level - Highly-Skilled Professionals (4) (1) As specified in the Horizontal Section       INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 17  Tourism Consultancy Services (CPC 91136) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Must be registered to Indonesian Ministry of Justice as Indonesian company. In the case of cooperation with a national company, it is required to do joint venture, joint operation and contract management (3) Unbound     (4) Unbound  (4) As specified in the Horizontal Measures       INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 18  International Hotel Operator (CPC 91135) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Must be registered to Indonesian Ministry of Justice as Indonesian company. In the case of cooperation with a national company, it is required to do contract management (3) Unbound     (4) Unbound, except for: a. Top Management Level in Hotel business comprised of: - General Manager - Food and Beverage Manager - Resident Manager - Comptroller - Marketing Director b. Highly-skilled Professionals comprised of: - Executive Chef - Sous Chef - Specialty Cook (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 19  Tourist Resorts including: • Hotels (3,4, and 5 star) • Marinas • Golf Courses and other Sport Facilities  (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) In Eastern Part of Indonesia, Bengkulu and Jambi, 100% of capital share can be owned by foreign investor (3) a. Higher paid-up capital is required of foreign services suppliers than of domestic suppliers. This measure will be eliminated in the year 2020. b. Only 3,4, or 5 starred hotels are permitted     (4) Unbound, except for Resort Manager (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section     Travel Agent and Tour Operator (TA & TO)  (CPC 74710) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Maximum service providers 30 TA & TO (3) Tour operator must be Travel Agent located in Jakarta and Bali     (4) Unbound except for technical advisor (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 20  ENERGY SERVICES General condition on energy services - Indonesia’s Schedule of Specific Commitments on energy services sector based on 2nd Revised Indonesian proposal of energy services classification Core analysis and other Lab Test, only for Isotop Analysis (1A.2.7.3) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Joint operation through a representative office in Indonesia (3) As specified in the Horizontal Section     (4) Unbound, except for directors and technical experts (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section     Geological and geophysical services, only for seismic data acquisition (1A.1.4.1.1) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Joint operation through a representative office in Indonesia (3) As specified in the Horizontal Section     (4) Unbound, except for directors and technical experts (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 21  Liquefaction and gasification only for coal   Coal liquefaction (2.4.4.4)  Coal Gasification (2.4.4.5) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Joint operation through a representative office in Indonesia (3) As specified in the Horizontal Section     (4) Unbound, except for directors and technical experts (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 22  FINANCIAL SERVICES Non banking General condition on Non Banking Financial Services Sub-sector :   1) All market access and national treatment limitations specified in the Non Banking Financial Services Sub-sectors will be eliminated by the year 2020 subject to similar commitment by other members.  2) The share ownership of foreign services suppliers is bound at the prevailing laws and regulations. The conditions of ownership and the percentage share of ownership as stipulated in the respective shareholder agreement establishing the existing individual joint venture in non banking financial services shall be respected. No transfer of ownership shall take place without the consent of all parties in the joint venture concerned.  3) In addition to the Horizontal Measures, temporary entry will be granted to technical expert(s)/advisor(s) for no longer than 3 (three) months per person for any given year.   4) Share of non-bank financial companies listed in the stock exchange may be 100% owned by foreign investors.  5) In relation to the presence of natural person, only directors, managers, and experts/advisors can be assumed by expatriates with maximum stay of 3 (three) years and can be extended.  6) All joint venture companies shall provide training for their employees. Factoring Services (CPC 8113) (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) As specified in the Horizontal Section and General Conditions. (3) As specified in the General Conditions.     (4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Section (4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.     INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 23  TRANSPORT SERVICES A. Air Transport Services a. Aircraft repair and maintenance  service (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Foreign service suppliers should be limited entity in accordance with Indonesian Law and regulations and have a permanent office in Indonesia, with maximum foreign equity 49%. (3) None     (4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal commitments (4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal commitments     INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 24  b.  Computer reservation system (CRS) services (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Foreign CRS services should be limited entity in accordance with Indonesian Law and regulations and have a permanent office in Indonesia, with maximum foreign equity 49%. (3) None     (4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal commitments (4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal commitments     c. Selling and marketing (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Foreign Sales and Ticketing services should be limited entity in accordance with Indonesian Law and regulations and have a permanent office in Indonesia, with maximum foreign equity 49%. (3) None     (4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal commitments (4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal commitments      INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 25  B. Maritime Transport a.  Passenger Transportation  (Excluding Cabotage)  (CPC 7211) (1) None (1) None*) Access to and use of port facilities in the port which is opened for international shipping     (2) None (2) None     (3) Only through joint venture corporation, with foreign equity share allowable up to maximum 49% (3) Foreign shipping company is obliged to appoint Indonesian shipping company as its General Agents     (4) As specified in the Horizontal section (4) As specified in the Horizontal section     B Freight Transportation (Excluding Cabotage)  (CPC 7212) (1) None (1) None*) Access to and use of port facilities in the port which is opened for international shipping      (2) None (2) None     (3) Only through joint venture corporation, with foreign equity share allowable up to maximum 49% (3) Foreign shipping company is obliged to appoint Indonesian shipping company as its General Agents     (4) As specified in the Horizontal section (4) As specified in the Horizontal section     INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS For the 2nd Package of Commitments under ASEAN - China FTA Trade in Services  Modes of supply:  (1)  Cross-border supply (2)  Consumption abroad    (3)  Commercial presence    (4) Presence of natural persons Sector or Subsector Limitation on Market Access Limitation on National Treatment Additional Commitments   AC-TIS/SC2/INO 26  c.  Maritime cargo handling Services (1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility (1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility      (2) None (2) None     (3) Only through joint venture corporation, with foreign equity share allowable up to maximum 49% (3) As indicated in the horizontal section     (4) As indicated in the horizontal section (4) As indicated in the horizontal section     d. Rental of vessel without crew (1) None (1) None      (2) None (2) None     (3) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility (3) As indicated in the horizontal section     (4) As indicated in the horizontal section (4) As indicated in the horizontal section     Notes (Maritime) :  *)   :  effective after issuance of implementing regulation of Shipping Law No 17 Year 2008 by May 2009 and foreign shipping company should be appointed national shipping agency company  ------- 