ATTACHMENT A 
 
 
REVISED OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES (OCP) 
FOR THE RULES OF ORIGIN FOR THE ASEAN-CHINA FREE 
TRADE AREA 
 
 
For the purpose of implementing the Rules of Origin for the ASEAN-
China Free Trade Area (ACFTA), the following operational procedures on 
the issuance and verification of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and 
other related administrative matters shall be followed: 
 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Rule 1 
 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
„Movement Certificate‟ means a Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued by 
an  intermediate  exporting  Party,  based  on  the  original  Certificate  of 
Origin (Form E) issued by the first exporting Party proving the origin 
status of the products in question; 
„Customs Authority‟ means the competent authority that is responsible 
under  the  law  of  a  Party  for  the  Authority  of  customs  laws  and 
regulations1; 
„Exporter‟ means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a 
Party from where a product is exported by such a person; 
„Importer‟ means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a 
Party into where a product is imported by such a person; 
                                                        
1 Such laws and regulations administered and enforced by the Customs Authority of each Party concerning 
importation, exportation and transit of products as they relate to customs duties, charges or other taxes or 
prohibitions,  restrictions  and  controls  with  respect  to  the  movement  of  controlled  items  across  the 
boundaryof the Customs Authority of each Party. 
1 
 „Issuing  Authority‟  means  any  government  authority  or  other  entity 
authorised under the domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules 
of a Party to issue a Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
 
ISSUING AUTHORITIES 
 
Rule 2 
 
The  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  shall  be  issued  by  the  Issuing 
Authorities of the exporting Party. 
 
Rule 3 
 
a)  Each Party shall inform all the other Parties of the names and 
addresses  of  its  respective  Issuing  Authorities  and  shall  provide 
specimen  signatures  and  specimen  of  official  seals,  and  correction 
stamps, if any, used by its Issuing Authorities. 
 
b)   The  above  information  shall  be  provided  by  the  contact  points 
electronically  to  all  the  other  Parties  to  the  Agreement  through  the 
ASEAN Secretariat, to the extent possible, at least one month before 
they take effect. A Party shall promptly inform all the other Parties of any 
changes in names, addresses, or official seals in the same manner. 
 
c)   All  Parties  shall  promptly  provide  confirmation  that  they  have 
received the information to the ASEAN Secretariat, who will forward the 
compiled confirmation to the submitting Party. 
 
 
Rule 4 
 
For the purpose of verifying the conditions for preferential treatment, the 
Issuing  Authorities  shall  have  the  right  to  call  for  any  supporting 
documentary evidence or to carry out any checks considered appropriate. 
2 
 If  such  right  cannot  be  obtained  through  the  existing  domestic  laws, 
regulations and administrative rules, it shall be inserted as a clause in the 
application form referred to in Rules 5 and 6 of this Attachment. 
 
 
APPLICATIONS 
 
Rule 5 
 
a)   The exporter and/or the manufacturer of the products which qualify 
for preferential treatment shall apply in writing to the Issuing Authorities 
requesting the pre-exportation verification of the origin of the products. 
The result of the verification, subject to review periodically or whenever 
appropriate, shall be accepted as the supporting evidence in verifying the 
origin of the said products to be exported thereafter. The pre-verification 
may not apply to the products which, by their nature, origin can be easily 
verified. 
 
b)  For  locally-procured  materials,  self-declaration  by  the  final 
manufacturer exporting under the ACFTA shall be used as the basis 
when applying for the issuance of the Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
Rule 6 
 
At the time of carrying out the formalities for exporting the products under 
preferential treatment, the exporter or his authorised representative shall 
submit a written application for the Certificate of Origin (Form E) together 
with appropriate supporting documents proving that the products to be 
exported qualify for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin (Form E)2. 
 
 
 
                                                        
2 For China, a Chinese manufacturer can apply for a Certificate of Origin (Form E) in the case 
where the manufacturer needs to authorise other agencies to export on its behalf. 
 
3 
 PRE-EXPORTATION EXAMINATION 
 
Rule 7 
 
The  Issuing  Authorities  of  each  Party  shall,  to  the  best  of  their 
competence and ability, carry out proper examination of each application 
for the Certificate of Origin (Form E) to ensure that: 
a)  the  application  and  the  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  are  duly 
completed in accordance with the requirements as defined in the 
overleaf notes of the Certificate of Origin (Form E), and signed by 
the authorised signatory; 
b)  the origin of the product is in conformity with the Rules of Origin for 
the ACFTA; 
c)  the other statements made in  the Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
correspond to the supporting documentary evidence submitted; 
d)  the  description,  quantity  and  weight  of  products,  marks  and 
number of packages, number and kinds of packages, as specified, 
conform to the products to be exported; 
e)  multiple items declared on the same Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
shall  be  allowed  subject  to  the  domestic  laws,  regulations  and 
administrative rules of the importing Party provided each item must 
qualify separately in its own right. 
 
 
 
ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN (FORM E) 
 
Rule 8 
 
a)  The Certificate of Origin (Form E) must be on ISO A4 size 
white paper in conformity to the specimen shown in Appendix 1 of this 
OCP. It shall be filled out in English. The Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
shall  comprise  one  (1)  original  and  two  (2)  copies,  namely,  the 
4 
 duplicate and triplicate copies. 
b)  For  a  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  with  multiple  pages,  the 
Parties shall use the attached Form shown in Appendix 1. The continuing 
page(s) shall bear the same signature, seal and reference number as 
those on the first page.  
c)  Each  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  shall  contain  a  unique 
reference number and cover one or more goods under one consignment. 
d)  The original copy of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be 
forwarded by the exporter to the importer for submission to the Customs 
Authority at the port or place of importation. The duplicate copy shall be 
retained by the Issuing Authority in the exporting Party. The triplicate 
copy shall be retained by the exporter. 
e)  In the case where a Certificate of Origin (Form E) is rejected by 
the Customs Authority of the importing Party, the said rejected Certificate 
of Origin (Form E) shall be marked accordingly in Box 4. 
f)  In  the  case  where  a  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  is  not 
accepted,  as  stated  in  paragraph  (e),  the  Customs  Authority  of  the 
importing  Party  shall  consider  the  clarifications  made  by  the  Issuing 
Authorities  of  the  exporting  Party  and  assess  whether  or  not  the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) can be accepted for the granting of the 
preferential treatment. The clarification shall be detailed and exhaustive 
in addressing the grounds for denial of preferential treatment raised by 
the importing Party. 
 
 
Rule 9 
 
To implement the provisions of Article 2 of the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA, the Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued by the final exporting 
Party shall indicate the origin criteria or applicable percentage of ACFTA 
value content in Box 8. 
 
 
5 
 Rule 10 
 
Neither erasures nor superimposition shall be allowed on the Certificate 
of  Origin  (Form  E).  Any  alteration  shall  be  made  by  striking  out  the 
erroneous materials and making any addition required. Such alterations 
shall be approved by an official authorised to sign the Certificate of Origin 
(Form  E)  and  certified  with  official  seals  or  correction  stamps  of  the 
Issuing Authority. Unused spaces shall be crossed out to prevent any 
subsequent addition. 
 
Rule 11 
 
In principle, a Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be issued prior to or at 
the time of shipment. In exceptional cases where the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) has not been issued by the time of shipment or no later than 
three (3) days from the date of shipment, at the request of the exporter, 
the  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  shall  be  issued  retroactively  in 
accordance with the domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules 
of  the  exporting  Party  within  twelve  (12)  months  from  the  date  of 
shipment,  in  which  case  it  is  necessary  to  indicate  “ISSUED 
RETROACTIVELY”  in  Box  13.    In  such  cases,  the  importer  claiming 
preferential treatment for the product may, subject to the domestic laws, 
regulations  administrative  rules  of  the  importing  Party,  provide  the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party with the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) issued retroactively. 
 
 
Rule 12 
 
a)  The Issuing Authorities of the intermediate Party within the ACFTA 
may issue a Movement Certificate (MC), if an application is made by the 
exporter while the product is passing through the territory, provided that:  
(i)      the importer of the intermediate Party and the exporter who 
applies for the MC in the intermediate Party are the same; 
(ii)  a valid original Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued by the first 
6 
 exporting Party  is presented; 
(iii)  information  on  the  MC  includes  the  name  of  the  Issuing 
Authority  of the Party which issued the original Certificate of 
Origin (Form E), date of issuance and reference number. The 
indicated invoice value shall be the invoice value of the products 
exported from the intermediate Party; and 
(iv)  the total quantity of each product covered in the MC does not 
exceed the total quantity of each product covered in the original 
Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
b)  In the case of China, the MC shall be issued by Customs Authority. 
In the case of ASEAN Member States, the MC shall be issued by the 
Issuing Authorities. 
 
c)  The validity of the MC shall have the same end-date as the original 
Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
d)  The  product  which  is  to  be  re-exported  using  the  MC  shall  be 
under the control of the Customs Authority of the intermediate Party. The 
products shall not undergo any further processing in the intermediate 
Party, except for repacking and logistics activities consistent with Article 8 
of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA3. 
 
e)  The verification procedure in Rule 18 of this Attachment shall also 
apply to the MC. In particular, the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party may simultaneously request the original exporting Party and the 
intermediate Party to provide information regarding the original Certificate 
of Origin (Form E) and the MC respectively, such as, the first exporter, 
last exporter, reference number, description of the products, country of 
origin and the port of discharge, within thirty (30) days from the date of 
receipt of the request, as the case maybe. 
 
 
                                                        
3 The products under control of the Customs Authority of the intermediate Party shall include products that 
remain in free trade  zones or  locations approved by the said Customs Authority. 
7 
 Rule 13 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin (Form E), 
the exporter may apply in writing to the Issuing Authority which issued it 
for a certified true copy of the original and the triplicate to be made on the 
basis of the export documents in its possession bearing the endorsement 
of the words “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY” in Box 12. The certified true 
copy of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall bear the date of 
the original Certificate of Origin (Form E). The certified true copy of the 
original Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be issued no later than one (1) 
year from the date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
and  on  condition  that  the  exporter  provides  to  the  relevant  Issuing 
Authority the triplicate copy of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) or any 
proof of the issuance of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
PRESENTATION 
 
Rule 14 
 
The  original  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  shall  be  submitted  to  the 
Customs  Authority  at  the  time  of  import  declaration  for  the  products 
concerned  claiming  for  preferential  treatment  in  accordance  with  the 
domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules of the importing Party. 
 
 
Rule 15 
 
The  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  shall  remain  valid  and  must  be 
submitted to the Customs Authority of the importing Party within one (1) 
year  from  the  date  of  its  issuance  by  the  Issuing  Authority  of  the 
exporting Party. 
 
 
 
 
8 
 Rule 16 
 
(a)  In  the  case  of  the  consignment  of  products  originating  in  the 
exporting Party and not exceeding US$ 200.00 FOB, the production of a 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be waived and the use of a simplified 
declaration by the exporter that the products in question originated in the 
exporting Party shall be accepted. Products sent through the post not 
exceeding US$200.00 FOB shall also be similarly treated. 
(b)  Waivers provided for in paragraph (a) shall not be applicable when 
it is established by  the  customs  authorities  of  the  importing  Party  
that  the  importation  forms  part  of  a series  of  importations  that  may  
reasonably  be  considered  to  have  been  undertaken  or arranged  for  
the  purpose  of  avoiding  the  submission  of  a Certificate of Origin or 
Certificates  of  Origin. 
 
 
Rule 17 
 
(a)  Where  the  ACFTA  origin  of  the  product  is  not  in  doubt, 
unsubstantial  discrepancies  such  as  tariff  classification  differences 
between the statements made in the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and 
those made in the documents submitted to the Customs Authority of the 
importing  Party  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  the  formalities  for 
importing the products, shall not, ipso-facto, invalidate the Certificate of 
Origin (Form E), if it does in fact correspond to the products submitted. 
 
(b)  In  cases  where  there  are  only  unsubstantial  discrepancies  as 
indicated in paragraph (a) between the exporting Party and importing 
Party,  the  products  shall  be  released  without  any  delay  subject  to 
administrative measures, such as imposition of customs duties at the 
higher  applied  rate  or  its  equivalent  amount  of  deposit.  Once  the 
discrepancies  have  been  resolved,  the  correct  ACFTA  rate  is  to  be 
applied and any overpaid duty shall be refunded, in accordance with the 
domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules of the importing Party.  
 
9 
 (c)  For multiple items declared under the same Certificate of Origin 
(Form E), a problem encountered with one of the items listed shall not 
affect  or  delay  the  granting  of  preferential  treatment  and  customs 
clearance of the remaining items listed in the Certificate of Origin (Form 
E). Rule 18(a)(ii) of this Attachment may be applied to the problematic 
items. 
 
 
Rule 18 
 
(a)  The  Customs  Authority  of  the  importing  Party  may  request  a 
retroactive check at random and/or when it has reasonable doubt as to 
the authenticity of the document or as to the accuracy of the information 
regarding the true origin of the products in question or of certain parts 
thereof. 
 
(i)     The request shall be made in writing, accompanied by a copy of 
the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and shall specify the reasons 
and any additional information suggesting that the particulars 
given  on  the  said  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  may  be 
inaccurate,  unless  the  retroactive  check  is  requested  on  a 
random basis. 
 
(ii)   The Customs Authority of the importing Party may suspend the 
granting of preferential treatment while awaiting the result of the 
verification.  However,  it  may  release  the  products  to  the 
importer  subject  to  any  administrative  measures  deemed 
necessary, including imposition of customs duties at the higher 
applied rate or equivalent amount of deposit, provided that they 
are not held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction and 
there is no suspicion of fraud.  
 
(iii)   The Customs Authority or the Issuing Authority of the exporting 
Party receiving a request for retroactive check shall respond to 
the request promptly and reply not later than ninety (90) days 
after the receipt of the request. The Customs Authority or the 
10 
 Issuing Authority of the exporting Party may request, in writing, 
an extension of time of up to ninety (90) days as long as the 
extension  request  is  made  within  the  initial  ninety  (90)  day  - 
period.   
 
(b)  If the Customs Authority of the importing Party is not satisfied with 
the outcome of the retroactive check, it may, in  exceptional cases, 
request  verification visits to the exporting Party. 
 
(i)  Prior to the conduct of a verification visit pursuant to the  
provisions herein, the Customs Authority of the importing Party 
shall notify the competent authority of the exporting Party with 
the  aim of  mutually agreeing on the conditions and means of 
the verification visit. 
 
(ii)   The verification visit shall be conducted not later than sixty (60) 
days after receipt of the notification pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(b)(i). 
 
(c)  The  verification  process,  including  the  retroactive  check  and 
verification visit, shall be carried out and its results communicated to the 
Customs Authority and/or the Issuing Authority of the exporting Party 
within a maximum of one hundred and eighty (180) days after the receipt 
of the request. In the event that an extension request has been made 
pursuant to sub-paragraph a(iii), the verification process, including the 
retroactive check and verification visit, shall be carried out and its results 
communicated to the Customs Authority and/or the Issuing Authority  of 
the exporting Party shall be extended from one hundred and eighty (180) 
days to a maximum of two hundred and seventy (270) days after the 
receipt of the request. While awaiting the results of the verification visit, 
sub-paragraph (a)(ii) on the suspension of preferential treatment shall be 
applied. 
 
(d)    All  exchanges  of  information  regarding  the  verification  request 
should be done only through the respective contact points of the Parties. 
 
11 
 (e)   The preferential treatment may be denied when the exporting Party 
fails to respond to the request to the satisfaction of the Customs Authority 
of the importing Party in the course of a retroactive check or verification 
process,  as  the  case  may  be,  within  the  time  frame  for  verification 
specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c). 
 
(f)     Each Party shall maintain the confidentiality of the information and 
documents provided by the other Party in the course of the verification 
process. Such information and documents shall not be used for other 
purposes, including being used as evidence in administrative and judicial 
proceedings, without the explicit written permission of the Party providing 
such information. 
 
 
RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT 
 
Rule 19 
 
(a)  The  application  for  the  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  and  all 
documents related to such application shall be retained by the Issuing 
Authority for not less than three (3) years from the date of issuance. 
 
(b)  Information relating to the validity of the Certificate of Origin (Form 
E) shall be furnished upon request by the importing Party. 
 
(c)  Any  information  communicated  between  the  Parties  concerned 
shall be treated as confidential and shall be used for the validation of the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) purposes only. 
 
(d)  For  the  purposes  of  the  verification  process/retroactive  check 
pursuant to Rule 18 of this Attachment, the producer and/or exporter 
applying for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall, subject 
to  the  domestic  laws,  regulations  and  administrative  rules  of  the 
exporting Party, keep the supporting records for the said application for 
not less than three (3) years from the date of issuance of the Certificate 
of Origin (Form E). 
12 
  
 
 
SPECIAL CASES 
 
Rule 20 
 
When the destination of the products exported to a specified Party is 
changed, before or after their arrival in the Party, the following rules shall 
be observed: 
 
a)  If  the  products  have  already  been  submitted  to  the  Customs 
Authority in the specified importing Party, the Certificate of Origin 
(Form  E)  shall,  by  a  written  application  of  the  importer,  be 
endorsed to address the situation. The original shall be kept by the 
Customs Authority and the photocopy of the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) shall be provided to the importer. 
 
b)  If the changing of destination occurs during transportation to the 
importing Party as specified in the Certificate of Origin (Form E), 
the  exporter  shall  apply  in  writing,  accompanied  by  the  issued 
Certificate of Origin (Form E), for the issuance of a new Certificate 
of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
Rule 21 
 
For the purpose of implementing Article 8 of the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA, where transportation is effected through the territory of one or 
more  non-ACFTA  Parties,  the  following  shall  be  submitted  to  the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party: 
 
a)  A through Bill of Lading issued in the exporting Party; 
 
13 
 b)  A  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  issued  by  the  relevant  Issuing 
Authorities of the exporting Party; 
 
c)  A copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the product; 
and 
 
d)  Supporting documents evidencing that the requirements of Article 
8.2(b) sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA are being complied with. 
 
 
Rule 22 
 
(a)  Products sent from an exporting Party for exhibition in another Party 
and sold during or after the exhibition for importation into a Party shall 
benefit from the ASEAN-China preferential treatment on the condition 
that the products meet the requirements of the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the Customs Authority 
of the importing Party that: 
(i)  an exporter has dispatched those products from the territory of 
the exporting Party to another Party where the exhibition is held 
and has exhibited them there; 
 
(ii)  the exporter has sold the  products or transferred them to a 
consignee in the importing Party; and 
 
(iii)  the products have been consigned during the exhibition or 
immediately thereafter to the importing Party in the state in 
which they were sent for exhibition. 
 
(b)  For purposes of implementing the above provisions, the Certificate 
of Origin (Form E) must be submitted to the Customs Authority of the 
importing  Party.  The  name  and  address  of  the  exhibition  must  be 
indicated, a certificate issued by the Issuing Authority  of the Party where 
the exhibition took place together with supporting documents prescribed 
14 
 in Rule 21(d) of this Attachment may be required. 
 
(c)  Paragraph  (a)  shall  apply  to  any  trade,  agricultural  or  crafts 
exhibition, fair or similar show or display in shops or business premises 
with a   view to  the sale of foreign products and  where the products 
remain under customs control during the exhibition. 
 
 
Rule 23 
 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party shall accept a Certificate of 
Origin (Form E) in cases where the sales invoice is issued either by a 
company located in a third country or by an ACFTA exporter for the 
account  of  the  said  company,  provided  that  the  product  meets  the 
requirements of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA. The invoice-issuing 
third party can be an ACFTA Party or non-ACFTA Party. The original 
invoice number or the third party invoice number shall be indicated in 
Box 10 of the Certificate of Origin (Form E), the exporter and consignee 
must  be  located  in  the  Parties  and  the  third  party  invoice  shall  be 
attached to the Certificate of Origin (Form E) when presenting the said 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) to the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party. 
 
 
 
ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS 
 
Rule 24 
 
(a)  When it is suspected that fraudulent acts in connection with the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) have been committed, the Government 
authorities of the Parties concerned shall co-operate in the action to be 
taken  in  the  territory  of  the  respective  Parties  against  the  persons 
involved. 
 
(b)  Each Party shall be responsible for providing legal sanctions for 
15 
 fraudulent acts committed in relation   to the Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
in accordance with its domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules. 
 
 
Rule 25 
 
In the case of a dispute concerning origin determination, classification of 
products or other matters, the Government authorities concerned in the 
importing and exporting Parties shall consult each other with a view to 
resolving the dispute, and the result shall be reported to the other Parties 
for information. 
 
 
CONTACT POINTS 
 
Rule 26 
 
Each Party shall designate contact points to ensure the effective and 
efficient implementation of this Attachment. 
16 
 