1 
 
Content 
 
Article 1 – Measures Definitions ................................................... 3 
Article 2 – National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation
 ...................................................................................... 4 
Article 3 – Tariff Reduction and Elimination ................................ 4 
Article 4 – Transparency ................................................................ 4 
Article 5 – Rules of Origin ............................................................ 5 
Article 6 – Modification of Concessions ....................................... 5 
Article 7 – WTO Disciplines ......................................................... 5 
Article 8 – Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Barriers ...... 6 
Article 9 – Safguard Measures....................................................... 6 
Article 10 – Acceleration of Commitments ................................... 8 
Article 11 – Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments ...... 8 
Article 12 – General Exceptions .................................................... 8 
Article 13 – Security Exceptions ................................................... 9 
Article 14 – Recognition of China’s Market Economy Status .... 10 
Article 15 – State, Regional and Local Government ................... 10 
Article 16 – Institutional Arrangement ........................................ 10 
Article 17 – Review ..................................................................... 11 
Article 18 – Annexes and Future Instruments ............................. 11 
Article 19 – Amendments ............................................................ 11 
Article 20 – Miscellaneous Provisions ........................................ 12 
Article 21 – Dispute Settlement ................................................... 12 
Article 22 – Depositary ................................................................ 12 
Article 23 – Entry into Force ....................................................... 12 2 
 
 
Agreement on Trade in Goods of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-
operation between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the People’s Republic of 
China 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the 
Lao People's Democratic Republic ("Lao PDR"), Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of 
the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of 
Viet Nam, Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (collectively, “ASEAN” or 
“ASEAN Member States”, or individually, “ASEAN Member State”), and the People’s Republic of 
China (“China”); 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-operation (“the 
Framework Agreement”) between ASEAN and China (collectively, “the Parties”, or individually 
referring to an ASEAN Member State or to China as a “Party”) signed by the Heads of 
Government/State of ASEAN Member States and China in Phnom Penh, Cambodia on the 4th day 
of November 2002 and the Protocol to Amend the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic Co-operation on the Early Harvest Programme signed by the Economic Ministers of the 
Parties in Bali, Indonesia on the 6th day of October 2003; 
 
RECALLING further Articles 2(a), 3(1) and 8(1) of the Framework Agreement, which reflect the 
Parties’ commitment to establish the ASEAN-China Free Trade Area (ACFTA) covering trade in 
goods by 2010 for ASEAN 6 and China and by 2015 for the newer ASEAN Member States; 
 
REAFFIRMING the Parties’ commitment to establish the ASEAN-China Free Trade Area within the 
specified timeframes, while allowing flexibility to the Parties to address their sensitive areas as 
provided in the Framework Agreement, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
 
(a)  “WTO” means the World Trade Organization; 
(b)    “the GATT 1994” means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, 
including Annex I (Notes and Supplementary Provisions); 
(c)    “ASEAN 6” refers to Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, 
Singapore and Thailand; 
(d)    “newer ASEAN Member States” refers to Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet 
Nam; 
(e)    “applied MFN tariff rates” shall include in-quota rates, and shall: 
(i)  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are WTO members as of 1 
July 2003) and China, refer to their respective applied rates as of 1 July 2003; and 
 
(ii)  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are non-WTO members as of 
1 July 2003), refer to the rates as applied to China as of 1 July 2003; 
(f)  “non-tariff measures”  shall  include  non-tariff barriers; 
(g)     “AEM” means ASEAN Economic Ministers;  
(h)     “MOFCOM” means Ministry of Commerce of China;  
(i)      “SEOM” means ASEAN Senior Economic Officials Meeting. 
 
 4 
 
ARTICLE 2 
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the products of all the other Parties covered by this 
Agreement and the Framework Agreement in accordance with Article III of the GATT 1994. To this 
end, the provisions of Article III of the GATT 1994 shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and 
form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Tariff Reduction and Elimination 
 
1.  The tariff reduction or elimination programme of the Parties shall require the applied MFN 
tariff rates on listed tariff lines to be gradually reduced and where applicable, eliminated, in 
accordance with this Article.  
   
2.  The tariff lines which are subject to the tariff reduction or elimination programme ubder this 
Agreement shall include all tariff lines not covered by the Early Harvest Programme under Article 6 
of the Framework Agreement, and such tariff lines shall be categorised for tariff reduction and 
elimination as follows: 
   
(a)                 Normal Track: Tariff lines placed in the Normal Track by each Party on its 
own accord shall have their respective applied MFN tariff rates gradually reduced 
and eliminated in accordance with the modalities set out in Annex 1 of this 
Agreement with the objective of achieving the targets prescribed in the thresholds 
therein. 
 
(b)  Sensitive Track: Tariff lines placed in the Sensitive Track by each Party on 
its own accord shall have their respective applied MFN tariff rates reduced or 
eliminated in accordance with the modalities set out in Annex 2 of this Agreement. 
 
3.  Subject to Annex 1 and Annex 2 of this Agreement, all commitments undertaken by each 
Party under this Article shall be applied to all the other Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Transparency 
 
Article X of the GATT 1994 shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and form an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
 
 5 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Rules of Origin  
 
The Rules of Origin and the Operational Certification Procedures applicable to the products covered 
under this Agreement and the Early Harvest Programme of the Framework Agreement are set out in 
Annex 3 of this Agreement.  
   
ARTICLE 6 
Modification of Concessions 
 
1.  Any Party to this Agreement may, by negotiation and agreement with any Party to which it 
has made a concession under this Agreement, modify or withdraw such concession made under this 
Agreement.  
 
2.  In  such  negotiations  and  agreement,  which  may  include  provision  for  compensatory 
adjustment with respect to other products, the Parties concerned shall maintain a general level of 
reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions not less favourable to trade than that provided 
for in this Agreement prior to such negotiations and agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
WTO Disciplines 
 
1.    Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and any future agreements as may be agreed 
pursuant to reviews of this Agreement by the Parties under Article 17 of this Agreement, the 
Parties1[1] hereby agree and reaffirm their commitments to abide by the provisions of the WTO 
disciplines  on,  among  others,  non-tariff  measures,  technical  barriers  to  trade,  sanitary  and 
phytosanitary  measures,  subsidies  and  countervailing  measures,  anti-dumping  measures  and 
intellectual property rights. 
2.   The provisions of the WTO Multilateral Agreements on Trade in Goods, which are not 
specifically mentioned in or modified by this Agreement, shall apply,  mutatis mutandis, to this 
Agreement unless the context otherwise requires. 
                                                           
 6 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Barriers 
 
1.  Each Party undertakes not to maintain any quantitative restrictions at any time unless 
otherwise permitted under the WTO disciplines.2[2]  
 
2.  The  Parties  shall  identify  non-tariff  barriers  (other  than  quantitative  restrictions)  for 
elimination as soon as possible after the entry into force of this Agreement. The time frame for 
elimination of these non-tariff barriers shall be mutually agreed upon by all Parties.  
 
3.  The Parties shall make information on their respective quantitative restrictions available and 
accessible upon implementation of this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE 9 
Safeguard Measures 
 
1.                   Each Party, which is a WTO member, retains its rights and obligations under Article XIX of 
the GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards. 
 
2.                   With regard to ACFTA safeguard measures, a Party shall have the right to initiate such a 
measure on a product within the transition period for that product. The transition period for a product 
shall begin from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and end five years from the date of 
completion of tariff elimination/reduction for that product. 
 
3.                   A Party shall be free to take ACFTA safeguard measures if as an effect of the obligations 
incurred by that Party, including tariff concessions under the Early Harvest Programme of the 
Framework Agreement or this Agreement, or, if as a result of unforeseen developments and of the 
effects of the obligations incurred by that Party, including tariff concessions under the Early Harvest 
Programme of the Framework Agreement or this Agreement, imports of any particular product from 
the other Parties increase in such quantities, absolute or relative to domestic production, and under 
such conditions so as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry of the 
importing Party that produces like or directly competitive products.  
 
4.  If an ACFTA safeguard measure is taken, a Party taking such a measure may increase the 
tariff rate applicable to the product concerned to the WTO MFN tariff rate applied to such product at 
the time when the measure is taken. 
                                                           
 7 
 
 
5.  Any ACFTA safeguard measure may be maintained for an initial period of up to 3 years and 
may be extended for a period not exceeding 1 year. Notwithstanding the duration of an ACFTA 
safeguard measure on a product, such measure shall terminate at the end of the transition period 
for that product.  
 
6.  In applying ACFTA safeguard measures, the Parties shall adopt the rules for the application 
of safeguard measures as provided under the WTO Agreement on Safeguards, with the exception 
of the quantitative restriction measures set out in Article 5, and Articles 9, 13 and 14 of the WTO 
Agreement on Safeguards. As such, all other provisions of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards 
shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
7.  An ACFTA safeguard measure shall not be applied against a product originating in a Party, 
so long as its share of imports of the product concerned in the importing Party does not exceed 3% 
of the total imports from the Parties. 
 
8.  In seeking compensation under Article 8 of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards for an 
ACFTA safeguard measure, the Parties shall seek the good offices of the body referred to in 
paragraph 12 to determine the substantially equivalent level of concessions prior to any suspension 
of equivalent concessions. Any proceedings arising from such good offices shall be completed 
within 90 days from the date on which the ACFTA safeguard measure was applied. 
 
9.  On a Party’s termination of an ACFTA safeguard measure on a product, the tariff rate for 
that product shall be the rate that, according to that Party’s tariff reduction and elimination schedule, 
as provided in Annex 1 and Annex 2 of this Agreement, would have been in effect commencing on 
1 January of the year in which the safeguard measure is terminated. 
 
10.  All official communications and documentations exchanged among the Parties and to the 
body referred to in paragraph 12 relating to any ACFTA safeguard measures shall be in writing and 
shall be in the English language. 
 
11.  When applying ACFTA safeguard measures, a Party shall not have simultaneous recourse 
to the WTO safeguard measures referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
12.  For the purpose of this Article, any reference to “Council for Trade in Goods” or the 
“Committee on Safeguards” in the incorporated provisions of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards 
shall, pending the establishment of a permanent body under paragraph 1 of Article 16, refer to the 
AEM-MOFCOM, or the SEOM-MOFCOM, as appropriate, which shall be replaced by the permanent 
body once it is established.  8 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Acceleration of Commitments 
 
Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  preclude  the  Parties  from  negotiating  and  entering  into 
arrangements  to  accelerate  the  implementation  of  commitments  made  under  this  Agreement, 
provided that such arrangements are mutually agreed to and implemented by all the Parties. 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
Where a Party is in serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or threat thereof, it 
may, in accordance with the GATT 1994 and the Understanding on Balance-of-Payments Provisions 
of the GATT 1994, adopt restrictive import measures. 
 
ARTICLE 12 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which would constitute a 
means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between the Parties where the same conditions 
prevail, or a disguised restriction on international trade, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed 
to prevent the adoption or enforcement by a Party of measures: 
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals; 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health; 
(c)  relating to the importations or exportations of gold or silver; 
(d)  necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not inconsistent with the 
provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  those  relating  to  customs  enforcement,  the 
enforcement of monopolies operated under paragraph 4 of Article II and Article XVII of the 
GATT 1994, the protection of patents, trade marks and copyrights, and the prevention of 
deceptive practices; 
(e)  relating to the products of prison labour; 
(f)  imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value; 
(g)  relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if such measures are made 
effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic production or consumption; 
(h)  undertaken in pursuance of obligations under any intergovernmental commodity agreement 9 
 
which conforms to criteria submitted to the WTO and not disapproved by it or which is itself 
so submitted and not so disapproved; 
(i)  involving  restrictions  on  exports  of  domestic  materials  necessary  to  ensure  essential 
quantities of such materials to a domestic processing industry during periods when the 
domestic price of such materials is held below the world price as part of a governmental 
stabilization plan; Provided that such restrictions shall not operate to increase the exports of 
or  the  protection  afforded  to  such  domestic  industry,  and  shall  not  depart  from  the 
provisions of this Agreement relating to non-discrimination; 
(j)  essential to the acquisition or distribution of products in general or local short supply; 
Provided that any such measures shall be consistent with the principle that all Parties are 
entitled to an equitable share of the international supply of such products, and that any such 
measures, which are inconsistent with the other provisions of this Agreement shall be 
discontinued as soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased to exist. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  to require any Party to furnish any information the disclosure of which it considers contrary 
to its essential security interests; 
(b)  to prevent any Party from taking any action which it considers necessary for the protection 
of its essential security interests, including but not limited to:  
 
(i)  action relating to fissionable materials or the materials from which they are 
derived; 
 
(ii)  action relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of war and 
to such traffic in other goods and materials as is carried on directly or indirectly for 
the purpose of supplying a military establishment; 
 
(iii)  action taken so as to protect critical communications infrastructure from deliberate 
attempts intended to disable or degrade such infrastructure; 
 
(iv)  action taken in time of war or other emergency in domestic or international 
relations; or 
 
(c)  to prevent any Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations under the United 
Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security. 10 
 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Recognition of China’s Market Economy Status 
 
Each of the ten ASEAN Member States agrees to recognise China as a full market economy and 
shall not apply, from the date of the signature of this Agreement, Sections 15 and 16 of the Protocol 
of Accession of the People’s Republic of China to the WTO and Paragraph 242 of the Report of the 
Working Party on the Accession of China to WTO in relation to the trade between China and each of 
the ten ASEAN Member States.  
 
ARTICLE 15 
State, Regional and Local Government 
 
In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under this Agreement, each Party shall ensure their 
observance by regional and local governments and authorities in its territory as well as their 
observance by non-governmental bodies (in the exercise of powers delegated by central, state, 
regional or local governments or authorities) within its territory. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1.    Pending  the  establishment  of  a  permanent  body,  the  AEM-MOFCOM,  supported  and 
assisted  by  the  SEOM-MOFCOM,  shall  oversee,  supervise,  coordinate  and  review  the 
implementation of this Agreement.  
 
2.      The  ASEAN  Secretariat  shall  monitor  and  report  to  the  SEOM-MOFCOM  on  the 
implementation of this Agreement. All Parties shall cooperate with the ASEAN Secretariat in the 
performance of its duties. 
 
3.  Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate communications between the Parties 
on any matter covered by this Agreement. On the request of a Party, the contact point of the 
requested Party shall identify the office or official responsible for the matter and assist in facilitating 
communication with the requesting Party. 11 
 
 
ARTICLE 17 
Review 
 
1.                   The AEM-MOFCOM or their designated representatives shall meet within a year of the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement and then biennially or otherwise as appropriate to review this 
Agreement for the purpose of considering further measures to liberalise trade in goods as well as 
develop disciplines and negotiate agreements on matters referred to in Article 7 of this Agreement 
or any other relevant matters as may be agreed. 
 
2.                   The Parties shall, taking into account their respective experience in the implementation of 
this Agreement, review the Sensitive Track in 2008 with a view to improving the market access 
condition of sensitive products, including the further possible reduction of the number of products in 
the Sensitive Track and the conditions governing the reciprocal tariff rate treatment of products 
placed by a Party in the Sensitive Track. 
 
ARTICLE 18 
Annexes and Future Instruments 
 
This Agreement shall include:  
 
(a)                 the Annexes and the contents therein which shall form an integral part of this Agreement: 
and  
 
(b)                 all future legal instruments agreed pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Amendments 
 
This Agreement may be amended by the mutual written consent of the Parties. 
 
 
 12 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement or any action taken under it shall 
not affect or nullify the rights and obligations of a Party under existing agreements to which it is a 
party. 
 
ARTICLE 21 
Dispute Settlement 
 
The Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism between ASEAN and China shall apply to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 22 
Depositary 
 
For the ASEAN Member States, this Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of 
ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member State. 
 
ARTICLE 23 
Entry Into Force 
 
  
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2005. 
 
2.  The Parties undertake to complete their internal procedures for the entry into force of this 
Agreement prior to 1 January 2005. 
 
3.  Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this 
Agreement by 1 January 2005, the rights and obligations of that Party under this Agreement shall 
commence on the date of the completion of such internal procedures. 
 
4.  A Party shall upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this 
Agreement notify all the other Parties in writing. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised by their respective Governments, 
have signed this Agreement on Trade in Goods of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 13 
 
Economic Co-operation between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the People’s 
Republic of China. 
 
DONE at, Vientiane, Lao PDR this Twenty Ninth Day of November in the Year Two Thousand and 
Four, in duplicate copies in the English Language. 
 
[1] Non-WTO members of ASEAN shall abide by the WTO provisions in accordance with their 
accession commitments to the WTO. 
 [2] Non-WTO members of ASEAN shall phase out their quantitative restrictions 3 years [Viet Nam: 
4 years] from the date of entry into force of this Agreement or in accordance with their accession 
commitments to the WTO, whichever is earlier.  
 