Appendix 1 
 
Annex 5 
 
RULES OF ORIGIN FOR THE  
ASEAN–CHINA FREE TRADE AREA 
 
In  determining  the  origin  of  products  eligible  for  the  preferential  tariff 
concession  pursuant  to  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive 
Economic  Co-operation  between  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations and the People’s Republic of China (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Agreement”), the following Rules shall be applied:  
 
Rule 1:  Definitions 
 
For the purpose of this Annex: 
 
(a)  “a Party” means the individual parties to the Agreement i.e. Brunei 
Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  (“Lao  PDR”),  Malaysia,  the  Union  of 
Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the 
Kingdom of Thailand, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the People’s 
Republic of China (”China”). 
 
(b)     “materials” shall include ingredients, parts, components, subassembly 
and/or goods that were physically incorporated into another good or were 
subject to a process in the production of another good. 
 
(c)  "Originating  goods"  means  products  that  qualify  as  originating  in 
accordance with the provisions of Rule 2. 
 
(d)  "production"  means  methods  of  obtaining  goods  including 
growing, mining, harvesting, raising, breeding, extracting, gathering, 
collecting,  capturing,  fishing,  trapping,  hunting,  manufacturing, 
producing, processing or assembling a good. 
 
(e)   “Product Specific Rules” are rules that specify that the materials have 
undergone a change in tariff classification or a specific manufacturing or 
processing operation, or satisfy an ad valorem criterion or a combination of 
any of these criteria. 
 Rule 2:  Origin Criteria  
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, products imported by a Party shall be deemed 
to be originating and eligible for preferential concessions if they conform to the 
origin requirements under any one of the following: 
 
(a) Products  which  are  wholly  obtained  or  produced  as  set  out  and 
             
defined in Rule 3; or 
 
(b)  Products  not  wholly  produced  or  obtained  provided  that  the  said 
products are eligible under Rule 4, Rule 5 or Rule 6.  
 
Rule 3:  Wholly Obtained Products 
 
Within the meaning of Rule 2 (a), the following shall be considered as wholly 
produced or obtained in a Party: 
 
(a) Plant [1] and plant products harvested, picked or gathered there; 
             
 
(b) Live animals [2] born and raised there; 
             
 
(c) Products [3] obtained from live animals referred to in paragraph (b) 
             
above; 
 
(d) Products  obtained  from  hunting,  trapping,  fishing,  aquaculture, 
             
gathering or capturing conducted there; 
 
(e) Minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not included in 
             
paragraphs (a) to (d), extracted or taken from  its soil, waters, seabed or 
beneath their seabed; 
 
(f)  Products taken from the waters, seabed or beneath the seabed outside 
the territorial waters of that Party, provided that that Party has the rights to 
exploit  such  waters,  seabed  and  beneath  the  seabed  in  accordance  with 
international law; 
 
(g)  Products of sea fishing and other marine products taken from the high 
seas by vessels registered with a Party or entitled to fly the flag of that Party;  
 (h)  Products  processed  and/or  made  on  board  factory  ships  registered 
with  a  Party  or  entitled  to  fly  the  flag  of  that  Party,  exclusively  from 
products referred to in paragraph (g) above; 
 
(i)  Articles collected there which can no longer perform their original 
purpose nor are capable of being restored or repaired and are fit only for 
disposal or recovery of parts of raw materials, or for recycling purposes [4]; 
and 
 
(j)  Goods obtained or produced in a Party solely from products referred 
to in paragraphs (a) to (i) above. 
  
Rule 4:  Not Wholly Produced or Obtained 
 
(a)  For  the  purposes  of  Rule  2(b),  a  product  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
originating if: 
 
(i)  Not less than 40% of its content originates from any Party; or 
 
(ii)  If the total value of the materials, part or produce originating 
from outside of the territory of a Party (i.e. non-ACFTA) does not 
exceed 60% of the FOB value of the product so produced or obtained 
provided that the final process of the manufacture is performed within 
the territory of the Party.  
 
(b)  For the purposes of this Annex, the originating criteria set out in Rule 
4(a)(ii) shall be referred to as the “ACFTA content”. The formula for the 
40% ACFTA content is calculated as follows: 
 
 
        Value of                  +    Value of materials 
of 
Non-ACFTA materials            Undetermined 
origin 
________________________________________   
x 100 % < 60%  
            FOB Price  
 
Therefore,  the  ACFTA content:  100%  - non-
ACFTA material = at least 40%  
 
 
(c)  The value of the non-originating materials shall be: 
 
(i)  the CIF value at the time of importation of the materials; or 
 
(ii)  the  earliest  ascertained  price  paid  for  the  materials  of 
undetermined origin in the territory of the Party where the working or 
processing takes place. 
 (d)  For the purpose of this Rule, "originating material" shall be deemed to 
be a material whose country of origin, as determined under these rules, is the 
same country as the country in which the material is used in production. 
 
Rule 5:  Cumulative Rule of Origin 
 
Unless otherwise provided for, products which comply with origin requirements 
provided for in Rule 2 and which are used in the territory of a Party as materials for 
a finished product eligible for preferential treatment under the Agreement shall be 
considered as products originating in the territory of the Party where working or 
processing of the finished product has taken place provided that the aggregate 
ACFTA content (i.e. full cumulation, applicable among all Parties) on the final 
product is not less than 40%. 
 
RULE 6:  PRODUCT SPECIFIC CRITERIA 
 
Products which have undergone sufficient transformation in a Party shall be treated 
as originating goods of that Party. Products which satisfy the Product Specific 
Rules  provided  for  in  Attachment  B  shall  be  considered  as  goods  to  which 
sufficient transformation has been carried out in a Party. 
 
RULE 7:  MINIMAL OPERATIONS AND PROCESSES 
 
Operations or processes undertaken, by themselves or in combination with 
each other for the purposes listed below, are considered to be minimal and 
shall not be taken into account in determining whether a good has been 
wholly obtained in one country: 
 
(a)   ensuring preservation of goods in good condition for the purposes of 
transport or storage; 
 
(b)   facilitating shipment or transportation; 
 
(c)   packaging [5] or presenting goods for sale.  
 
Rule 8:  Direct Consignment 
 
The following shall be considered as consigned directly from the exporting Party 
to the importing Party:  
(a) If the products are transported passing through the territory of any 
             
other ACFTA member states; 
 
(b) If the products are transported without passing through the territory of 
             
any non-ACFTA member states; 
 
(c) The products whose transport involves transit through one or more 
             
intermediate non-ACFTA member states with or without transshipment or 
temporary storage in such countries, provided that: 
 
(i) the  transit  entry  is  justified  for  geographical  reason  or  by 
                
consideration related exclusively to transport requirements; 
 
(ii) the products have not entered into trade or consumption there; 
              
and 
 
(iii) the products  have  not undergone  any  operation there  other 
            
than unloading and reloading or any operation required to keep 
them in good condition. 
 
Rule 9:  Treatment of Packing  
 
(a) Where  for  purposes  of  assessing  customs  duties,  a  Party 
             
treats products separately from their packing, it may also, in respect 
of its imports consigned from another Party, determine separately the 
origin of such packing. 
 
(b) Where  paragraph  (a)  above  is  not  applied,  packing  shall  be 
             
considered as forming a whole with the products and no part of any packing 
required for their transport or storage shall be considered as having been 
imported  from  outside  the  ACFTA  when  determining  the  origin  of  the 
products as a whole. 
  
Rule 10: Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  
 
The origin of accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or other information 
materials presented with the goods therewith shall be neglected in determining the 
origin  of  the  goods,  provided  that  such  accessories,  spare  parts,  tools  and 
information materials are classified and collected customs duties with the goods by 
the importing member state.   
 
RULE 11:  NEUTRAL ELEMENTS  
 
Unless otherwise provided, for the purpose of determining the origin of goods, the 
origin of power and fuel, plant and equipment, or machines and tools used to 
obtain the goods, or the materials used in its manufacture which do not remain in 
the goods or form part of the goods, shall not be taken into account. 
 
Rule 12: Certificate of Origin 
 
A claim that products shall be accepted as eligible for preferential concession shall 
be  supported  by  a  Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  a  government  authority 
designated  by  the  exporting  Party  and  notified  to  the  other  Parties  to  the 
Agreement in accordance with the Operational Certification Procedures, as set out 
in Attachment A. 
 
Rule 13:   Review and Modification  
 
These rules may be reviewed and modified as and when necessary upon 
request  of  a  Member  State  and  may  be  open  to  such  reviews  and 
modifications as may be agreed upon by the AEM-MOFCOM. 
 
   
 ATTACHMENT A 
 
 
OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES  
FOR THE RULES OF ORIGIN OF THE  
ASEAN-CHINA FREE TRADE AREA 
 
For the purpose of implementing the rules of origin for the ASEAN-
China Free Trade Area, the following operational procedures on the 
issuance and verification of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and 
the other related administrative matters shall be followed: 
 
AUTHORITIES 
 
Rule 1 
 
The Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the Government authorities of the 
exporting Party.  
 
Rule 2 
 
(a) The Party shall inform all the other Parties of the names and addresses of 
             
their respective Government authorities issuing the Certificate of Origin and 
shall provide specimen signatures and specimen of official seals used by their 
said Government authorities. 
 
(b) The above information and specimens shall be provided to every Party to 
             
the Agreement and a copy furnished to the ASEAN Secretariat. Any change in 
names,  addresses,  or  official  seals  shall  be  promptly  informed  in  the  same 
manner. 
 
Rule 3 
 
For  the  purpose  of  verifying  the  conditions  for  preferential  treatment,  the 
Government authorities designated to issue the Certificate of Origin shall have 
the right to call for any supporting documentary evidence or to carry out any 
check  considered  appropriate.  If  such  right  cannot  be  obtained  through  the 
existing national laws and regulations, it shall be inserted as a clause in the 
application form referred to in the following rules 4 and 5. 
 
APPLICATIONS 
 Rule 4 
 
The exporter and/or the manufacturer of the products qualified for preferential 
treatment shall apply in writing to the Government authorities requesting for the 
pre-exportation  verification  of  the  origin  of  the  products.  The  result  of  the 
verification, subject to review periodically or whenever appropriate, shall be 
accepted as the supporting evidence in verifying the origin of the said products 
to be exported thereafter. The pre-verification may not apply to the products of 
which, by their nature, origin can be easily verified. 
 
Rule 5 
 
At the time of carrying out the formalities for exporting the products under 
preferential treatment, the exporter or his authorised representative shall submit 
a  written  application  for  the  Certificate  of  Origin  together  with  appropriate 
supporting documents proving that the products to be exported qualify for the 
issuance of a Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
PRE-EXPORTATION EXAMINATION 
 
Rule 6 
 
The Government authorities designated to issue the Certificate of Origin shall, 
to the best of their competence and ability, carry out proper examination upon 
each application for the Certificate of Origin to ensure that: 
 
(a) The application and the Certificate of Origin are duly completed 
             
and signed by the authorised signatory; 
 
(b) The origin of the product is in conformity with the ASEAN-China 
             
Rules of Origin; 
 
(c) The other statements of the Certificate of Origin correspond to 
             
supporting documentary evidence submitted; 
 
(d) Description, quantity and weight of goods, marks and number of 
             
packages, number and kinds of packages, as specified, conform to the 
products to be exported. 
  
ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
 
Rule 7 
 
(a) The Certificate of Origin must be in ISO A4 size paper in conformity to 
             
the specimen as shown in Attachment C. It shall be made in English. 
 
(b) The Certificate of Origin shall comprise one original and three (3) carbon 
             
copies of the following colours: 
 
Original        -   Beige (Pantone color code: 727c) 
Duplicate        -  Light Green (Pantone color code: 622c) 
Triplicate        -  Light Green (Pantone color code: 622c) 
Quadruplicate  -  Light Green (Pantone color code: 622c) 
 
(c) Each Certificate of Origin shall bear a reference number separately given 
             
by each place of office of issuance. 
 
(d) The original copy shall be forwarded, together with the triplicate, by the 
             
exporter to the importer for submission to the Customs Authority at the port or 
place of importation. The duplicate shall be retained by the issuing authority in 
the exporting Party. The quadruplicate shall be retained by the exporter. After 
the importation of the products, the triplicate shall be marked accordingly in 
box 4 and returned to the issuing authority within a reasonable period of time. 
 
Rule 8 
 
To implement the provisions of Rules 4 and 5 of the ASEAN-China Rules of 
Origin,  the  Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  the  final  exporting  Party  shall 
indicate the relevant rules and applicable percentage of ACFTA content in Box 
8. 
 
Rule 9 
 
Neither  erasures  nor  superimposition  shall  be  allowed  on  the  Certificate  of 
Origin. Any alteration shall be made by striking out the erroneous materials and 
making any addition required. Such alterations shall be approved by the person 
who  made  them  and  certified  by  the  appropriate  Government  authorities. 
Unused spaces shall be crossed out to prevent any subsequent addition. Rule 10 
 
(a) The Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the relevant Government 
             
authorities of the exporting Party at the time of exportation or soon thereafter 
whenever the products to be exported can be considered originating in that Party 
within the meaning of the ASEAN-China Rules of Origin. 
 
(b) In exceptional cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued at 
             
the time of exportation or soon thereafter due to involuntary errors or omissions 
or other valid causes, the Certificate of Origin may be issued retroactively but 
no longer than one year from the date of shipment, bearing the words “ISSUED 
RETROACTIVELY”. 
 
Rule 11 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the exporter 
may apply in writing to the Government authorities which issued it for the 
certified true copy of the original and the triplicate to be made on the basis of 
the export documents in their possession bearing the endorsement of the words 
“CERTIFIED TRUE COPY” in Box 12. This copy shall bear the date of the 
original Certificate of Origin. The certified true copy of a Certificate of Origin 
shall be issued not longer than one year from the date of issuance of the original 
Certificate of Origin and on condition that the exporter provides to the relevant 
issuing authority the fourth copy. 
 
PRESENTATION 
 
Rule 12 
 
The original Certificate of Origin shall be submitted together with the triplicate 
to  the  Customs  Authorities  at  the  time  of  lodging  the  import  entry  for  the 
products concerned. 
  
Rule 13 
 
The following time limit for the presentation of the Certificate of Origin shall be 
observed: 
 
(a)  Certificate of Origin shall be submitted to the Customs Authorities 
of  the  importing  Party  within  four  (4)  months  from  the  date  of 
endorsement  by  the  relevant  Government  authorities  of  the  exporting 
Party; 
 
(b)  Where the products pass through the territory of one or more non-
parties in accordance with the provisions of Rule 8 (c) of the ASEAN-
China Rules of Origin, the time limit laid down in paragraph (a) above for 
the submission of the Certificate of Origin is extended to six (6) months; 
 
(c)  Where  the  Certificate  of  Origin  is  submitted  to  the  relevant 
Government authorities of the importing Party after the expiration of the 
time limit for its submission, such Certificate is still to be accepted when 
failure to observe the time limit results from force majeure or other valid 
causes beyond the control of the exporter; and 
 
(d)   In all cases, the relevant Government authorities in the importing 
Party may accept such Certificate of Origin provided that the products 
have been imported before the expiration of the time limit of the said 
Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 14 
 
In the case of consignments of products originating in the exporting Party and 
not exceeding US$200.00 FOB, the production of a Certificate of Origin shall 
be waived and the use of simplified declaration by the exporter that the products 
in question have originated in the exporting Party will be accepted. Products 
sent through the post not exceeding US$200.00 FOB shall also be similarly 
treated. 
 
Rule 15 
 
The  discovery  of  minor  discrepancies  between  the  statements  made  in  the 
Certificate of Origin and those made in the documents submitted to the Customs 
Authorities of the importing Party for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for  importing  the  products  shall  not  ipso-facto  invalidate  the  Certificate  of 
Origin, if it does in fact correspond to the products submitted. 
 
Rule 16 
 
(a) The importing Party may request a retroactive check at random and/or 
             
when it has reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or as to the 
accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the products in question 
or of certain parts thereof. 
 
(b) The  request  shall  be  accompanied  with  the  Certificate  of  Origin 
             
concerned  and  shall  specify  the  reasons  and  any  additional  information 
suggesting that the particulars given on the said Certificate of Origin may be 
inaccurate, unless the retroactive check is requested on a random basis. 
 
(c) The  Customs  Authorities  of  the  importing  Party  may  suspend  the 
             
provisions on preferential treatment while awaiting the result of verification. 
However,  it  may  release  the  products  to  the  importer  subject  to  any 
administrative measures deemed necessary, provided that they are not held to be 
subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no suspicion of fraud. 
 
(d) The issuing Government authorities receiving a request for retroactive 
             
check shall respond to the request promptly and reply not later than six (6) 
months after the receipt of the request. 
 
 
 
Rule 17 
 
(a) The application for Certificates of Origin and all documents related to 
             
such application shall be retained by the issuing authorities for not less than two 
(2) years from the date of issuance. 
 
(b) Information relating to the validity of the Certificate of Origin shall be 
             
furnished upon request of the importing Party. 
 
(c) Any information communicated between the Parties concerned shall be 
             
treated as confidential and shall be used for the validation of Certificates of 
Origin purposes only. 
 
  
SPECIAL CASES 
 
Rule 18 
 
When destination of all or parts of the products exported to a specified Party is 
changed, before or after their arrival in the Party, the following rules shall be 
observed: 
 
(a) If  the  products  have  already  been  submitted  to  the  Customs 
             
Authorities  in  the  specified  importing  Party,  the  Certificate  of  Origin 
shall, by a written application of the importer be endorsed to this effect 
for all or parts of products by the said authorities and the original returned 
to the importer. The triplicate shall be returned to the issuing authorities. 
 
(b) If the changing of destination occurs during transportation to the 
             
importing Party as specified in the Certificate of Origin, the exporter shall 
apply in writing, accompanied with the issued Certificate of Origin, for 
the new issuance for all or parts of products. 
 
Rule 19 
 
For  the  purpose  of  implementing  Rule  8(c)  of  the  ASEAN-China  Rules  of 
Origin, where transportation is effected through the territory of one or more 
non-ACFTA member states, the following shall be produced to the Government 
authorities of the importing Member State: 
 
(a)     A through Bill of Lading issued in the exporting Member State;  
 
(b)      A  Certificate  of  Origin  issued  by  the  relevant  Government 
authorities of the exporting Member State;  
 
(c)     A copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the product; 
and  
 
(d)     Supporting documents in evidence that the requirements of Rule 
8(c) sub-paragraphs (i),(ii) and (iii) of the ASEAN-China Rules of Origin 
are being complied with. 
  
Rule 20 
 
(a) Products sent from an exporting Party for exhibition in another Party and 
             
sold during or after the exhibition into a Party shall benefit from the ASEAN-
China preferential tariff treatment on the condition that the products meet the 
requirements of the ASEAN-China Rules of Origin provided it is shown to the 
satisfaction of the relevant Government authorities of the importing Party that: 
 
(i) an exporter has dispatched those products from the territory of the 
                
exporting Party to the country where the exhibition is held and has 
exhibited them there; 
 
(ii) the exporter has sold the goods or transferred them to a consignee 
              
in the importing Party; and 
 
(iii) the  products  have  been  consigned  during  the  exhibition  or 
            
immediately thereafter to the importing Party in the state in which 
they were sent for exhibition. 
 
(b) For purposes of implementing the above provisions, the Certificate of 
             
Origin  must  be  produced  to  the  relevant  Government  authorities  of  the 
importing Party. The name and address of the exhibition must be indicated, a 
certificate issued by the relevant Government authorities of the Party where the 
exhibition took place together with supporting documents prescribed in rule 
19(d) may be required. 
 
(c) Paragraph (a) shall apply to any trade, agricultural or crafts exhibition, 
             
fair or similar show or display in shops or business premises with the view to 
the sale of  foreign products  and  where the products  remain  under  Customs 
control during the exhibition. 
 
  
ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS 
 
Rule 21 
 
(a) When  it  is  suspected  that  fraudulent  acts  in  connection  with  the 
             
Certificate  of  Origin  have  been  committed,  the  Government  authorities 
concerned  shall  co-operate  in  the  action  to  be  taken  in  the  territory  of  the 
respective Party against the persons involved. 
 
(b) Each  Party  shall  be  responsible  for  providing  legal  sanctions  for 
             
fraudulent acts related to the Certificate of Origin. 
 
Rule 22 
 
In the case of a dispute concerning origin determination, classification or 
products or other matters, the Government authorities concerned in the 
importing and exporting Member States shall consult each other with a 
view to resolving the dispute, and the result shall be reported to the 
other Member States for information.  
 ATTACHMENT B 
 
PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES 
(To be negotiated commencing January 2004) 
 
 
 
 
 
 [1] Plant here refers to all plant life, including fruit, flowers, vegetables, trees, seaweed, fungi and live plants  
 
 [2] Animals referred to in paragraph (b) and (c) covers all animal life, including mammals, birds, fish, crustaceans, molluscs, 
reptiles, bacteria and viruses. 
 
 [3] Products refer to those obtained from live animals without further processing, including milk, eggs, natural honey, hair, 
wool, semen and dung. 
 [4] This would cover all scrap and waste including scrap and waste resulting from manufacturing or processing operations 
or consumption in the same country, scrap machinery, discarded packaging and all products that can no longer perform the 
purpose for which they were produced and are fit only for discarding or for the recovery of raw materials. Such 
manufacturing or processing operations shall include all types of processing, not only industrial or chemical but also mining, 
agriculture, construction, refining, incineration and sewage treatment operations. 
 [5] This excludes encapsulation which is termed “packaging” by the electronics industry.  
 