 
 
- 1 - 
 
Original (Duplicate/Triplicate) 
  
  
  
  
  
 Reference No. 
  
  
1. Products consigned from (Exporter’s business name, 
ASEAN-CHINA FREE TRADE AREA 
     address, country) 
 
 
  
PREFERENTIAL TARIFF 
  
 
 
 
  
CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
  
  
  
  
  
(Combined Declaration and Certificate) 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
2. Products consigned to (Consignee's name, address, 
  
 
 
 
 
      FORM E 
  
     country) 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
         Issued in  ______________ 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
        (Country) 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 See Overleaf Notes  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
3. Means of transport and route (as far as known) 
  
4. For Official Use 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     Departure date 
 
 
  
 
  
 
Preferential Treatment Given  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
     Vessel's name/Aircraft etc. 
 
  
  
  
 
Preferential Treatment Not Given (Please 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
state reason/s) 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     Port of Discharge 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   .................................................................................. 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Signature of Authorised Signatory of the Importing 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Party 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
5. Item 
Number 
 
6. Marks and 
numbers on 
packages 
 
7. Number and type of packages, 
description of 
products (including  quantity 
where appropriate and 
HS number in six digit code) 
 
8. Origin criteria 
(see Overleaf 
Notes) 
 
9. Gross  weight or  
net weight  or other 
quantity,  and value 
(FOB) only when 
RVC criterion is 
applied 
   
10. Number,      
date of Invoices 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
11. Declaration by the exporter  
  
12. Certification 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
      The undersigned hereby declares that the above 
      It is hereby certified, on the basis of control 
      details and statement are correct; that all the products 
      carried out, that the declaration by the 
      were produced in 
 
 
  
      exporter is correct. 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
............................................................. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(Country) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      and that they comply with the origin requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      specified for these products in the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA for the products exported to 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
       
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
............................................................. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(Importing Country) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
............................................................. 
................................................................................ 
Place and date, signature of 
Place and date, signature and stamp of 
authorised signatory 
 
certifying authority 
 
13 
□  Issued Retroactively                □   Exhibition 
□  Movement Certificate              □  Third Party Invoicing 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
ATTACHMENT C 
 
 
2 
OVERLEAF NOTES 
1. 
Parties which accept this form for the purpose of preferential treatment under the ASEAN-China Free Trade Area (ACFTA): 
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 
 
CAMBODIA 
 
 
CHINA 
INDONESIA  
 
 
LAOS 
 
 
 
MALAYSIA 
MYANMAR  
 
 
PHILIPPINES 
 
 
SINGAPORE 
THAILAND  
 
 
VIETNAM 
 
2. 
CONDITIONS: The main conditions for admission to the preferential treatment under the ACFTA are that products sent to any Parties 
listed above: 
(i) 
must fall within a description of products eligible for concessions in the country of destination; 
(ii) 
must comply with all relevant provisions of Annex 1 (Rules of Origin) of the Protocol to Amend the Framework Agreement on 
Comprehensive Economic Co-operation and Certain Agreements thereunder between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN) and the People’s Republic of China (ACFTA Upgrading Protocol).  
3. 
ORIGIN CRITERIA: For each good described in Box 7 of this form, the origin criteria met should be indicated in Box 8, in the manner 
shown in the following table: 
Circumstances of production or  manufacture in the first country named in 
Box 11 of this form 
Insert in Box 8 
(a)  Goods wholly produced or obtained satisfying subparagraph (a) of 
Article 2 of Annex 1 of the ACFTA Upgrading Protocol 
WO 
(b) Goods produced in a Party exclusively from originating materials from 
one or more of the Parties satisfying subparagraph (b) of Article 2 of 
Annex 1 of the ACFTA Upgrading Protocol 
PE 
(c)  Goods produced from non-originating materials in a Party, satisfying 
paragraph 1 of Article 4 of Annex 1 of the ACFTA Upgrading 
Protocol 
 
- Regional Value Content 
Actual percentage of ACFTA 
value content, example “40%”  
- Change in Tariff Classification at the four-digit level 
CTH 
(d)  Goods satisfying the Product Specific Rules (PSR) in Attachment B of 
Annex 1 of the ACFTA Upgrading Protocol 
PSR 
4. 
EACH ARTICLE MUST QUALIFY: It should be noted that all the products in a consignment must qualify separately in their own right. 
This is of particular relevance when similar articles of different sizes or spare parts are sent. 
5. 
DESCRIPTION OF PRODUCTS: The description of products in Box 7 must be sufficiently detailed to enable the products to be 
identified by the Customs Officers examining them.  
6. 
The Harmonised System number of the importing party in Box 7 (six digit code) shall be determined according to the International 
Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System and subsequent amendments thereto. 
7. 
The term “Exporter” in Box 1 and 11 may include the manufacturer or the producer. In the case of Movement Certificate (MC), the term 
“Exporter” also includes the exporter in the intermediate Party. For China, a Chinese manufacturer can apply for a Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) in the case where the manufacturer needs to authorise other agencies to export on its behalf. In this case, the manufacturer can 
make the declaration indicated in Box 11 and shall state the name and address of the exporter  in Box 7. 
8. 
FOR OFFICIAL USE: The Customs Authority of the importing Party must indicate (√) in the relevant boxes in column 4 whether or not 
preferential treatment is accorded. 
9. 
MOVEMENT CERTIFICATE: In cases of Movement Certificate, in accordance with Rule 12 of Attachment A of the Rules of Origin of 
the ACFTA Upgrading Protocol (Operational Certification Procedures): (i) “Movement Certificate” in Box 13 should be ticked (√); (ii) 
the indicated value in Box 9 shall be the invoice value of the products exported from the intermediate Party. The indicated value in Box 9 
is only required when the RVC criterion is applied; (iii) The name of the original Issuing Authorities of the Party, date of the issuance 
and the reference number of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E) to be indicated in Box 7.  
        10. THIRD PARTY INVOICING: In cases where invoices are issued by a third country, “the Third Party Invoicing” in Box 13 shall be 
ticked (√). The invoice number shall be indicated in Box 10. Information such as name and country of the company issuing the invoice 
shall be indicated in Box 7. 
11. EXHIBITIONS: In cases where products are sent from the exporting Party for exhibition in another Party and sold during or after the 
exhibition for importation into a Party, in accordance with Rule 22 of Attachment A of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA, the 
“Exhibitions” in Box 13 should be ticked (√) and the name and address of the exhibition indicated in Box 2. 
12. ISSUED RETROACTIVELY: In exceptional cases, due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid causes, the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) may be issued retroactively in accordance with Rule 11 of Attachment A of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA. The “Issued 
Retroactively” in Box 13 shall be ticked (√) electronically or typewritten together with other information in the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E). In cases where the “Issued Retroactively” in Box 13 cannot be ticked electronically or typewritten, the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) shall be stamped with the words “ISSUED RETROACTIVELY”. 
 
