1 
 
Content 
Article 1 – Amendment of Article 6(3)(a)(iv) of the Framework 
Agreement ....................................................................... 3 
Article 2 – Amendment of Article 6(3)(b)(i) of the Framework 
Agreement ................................................................... 4 -5 
Article 3 – Amendment of Article 6(3)(c) of the Framework 
Agreement ....................................................................... 6 
Article 4 – Amendment to insert new Article 12A into the 
Framework Agreement ................................................... 7 
Article 12A – Agreement Outside this Agreement ......................... 8 
Article 5 – Substitution of Annex of the Framework Agreement ... 9 
Article 6 – Substitution of the Annex 2 of the Framework 
Agreement ..................................................................... 10 
Article 7 – Incorporation of Early Harvest Schedules of 
Commitments ................................................................ 11 
Article 8 – Entry into Force ........................................................... 12 
 2 
 
 
PROTOCOL TO AMEND THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT  
ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION BETWEEN 
THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTH EAST ASIAN NATIONS AND THE 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the 
Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the 
Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, 
the Kingdom of Thailand, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, Member States of 
the Association of South East Asian Nations (collectively “ASEAN” or 
“ASEAN Member States”) and the People’s Republic of China (“China”); 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-
operation between ASEAN and China (hereinafter referred as “the Framework 
Agreement”) signed on 4 November 2002; 
 
RECOGNISING  that  any  Party  may  accelerate  its  tariff  reduction  and 
elimination for products covered under the Framework Agreement, including 
any  commitments  covered  under  the  Early  Harvest  Programme  of  the 
Framework Agreement; 
 
RECOGNISING also the requirement for some ASEAN Member States to 
complete their negotiations with China in respect of the Early Harvest 
Programme provided under the Framework Agreement;  
 
SEEKING to incorporate into the Framework Agreement the Rules of Origin 
applicable to the products covered under the Early Harvest Programme of the 
Framework Agreement; 
 
SEEKING also to revise the contents of the existing Annex 1 and Annex 2 of 
the Framework Agreement in order to include the subsequent Early Harvest 
agreements between some ASEAN Member States and China and to insert the 
relevant HS Codes and product descriptions; 
 
DESIRING to clarify the implementation of the provisions of the Early Harvest 
Programme of the Framework Agreement; 
 
DESIRING also to provide for the terms and conditions for the acceleration of 
tariff reduction and/or elimination for products covered under the Early Harvest 
Programme of the Framework Agreement through bilateral or plurilateral 3 
 
arrangements and to provide for such arrangements to be administratively 
annexed to the Framework Agreement; 
 
NOTING that Article 14 of the Framework Agreement provides for any 
amendments thereto to be mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties; 
 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Amendment of Article 6(3)(a)(iv) of the Framework Agreement  
 
Article 6(3)(a)(iv) of the Framework Agreement shall be deleted and substituted 
entirely by a new Article 6(3)(a)(iv) as set out below: 
 
“(iv)  For those parties which are unable to complete the appropriate 
product lists in Annex 1 or Annex 2, the lists may still be drawn up 
by mutual agreement consistent with the implementation timeframe 
set out in Annex 3 to this Agreement.” 
 
 4 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Amendment of Article 6(3)(b)(i) of the Framework Agreement 
 
Article 6(3)(b)(i) of the Framework Agreement shall be substituted by a new 
Article 6(3)(b)(i) as set out below: 
 
  “(i)  All products covered under the Early Harvest Programme shall be 
divided  into  3  product  categories  for  tariff  reduction  and 
elimination as defined and to be implemented in accordance with 
the  timeframes  set  out  in  Annex  3  to  this  Agreement.    This 
paragraph shall not prevent any Party from accelerating its tariff 
reduction  and/or  elimination  if  it  so  wishes,  subject  to  the 
following terms and conditions:  
 
(1) A  Party  may  accelerate  its  tariff  reduction  and/or 
               
elimination under this Article in relation to the rest of the 
parties on a unilateral basis; 
 
(2) One or more ASEAN Member States may also conduct 
               
negotiations  and  enter  into  a  bilateral  or  plurilateral 
acceleration arrangement with China to accelerate their tariff 
reduction and/or elimination under this Article; 
 
(3) Before  the  commencement  of  negotiations  of  any 
               
arrangement pursuant to subparagraph 2 of Article 6(3)(b)(i) 
of this Agreement, all parties which decide to enter into such 
negotiations shall give joint written notification to the other 
ASEAN Member States at least one month before entering 
into  such  negotiations,  so  that  any  one  or  more  of  the 
ASEAN Member States may participate in such negotiations 
if they so wish.  Any ASEAN Member State that intends to 
participate  in  such  negotiations  shall  notify  the  original 
parties  intending  to  enter  into  such  negotiations  of  its 
intention  in  writing,  and  shall  provide  copies  of  such 
notification to the other ASEAN Member States through the 
ASEAN Secretariat; 
 
(4) Any individual ASEAN Member State shall be permitted to 
               
accede  to  any  arrangement  concluded  pursuant  to 
subparagraph  2  of  Article  6(3)(b)(i)  of  this  Agreement, 
provided that it undertakes to be fully bound by the entire 5 
 
package  of  commitments  under  such  arrangement  with 
respect  to  product  coverage,  tariff  schedule,  and 
implementation  timeframe,  as  prescribed  by  such 
arrangement. For newer ASEAN Member States, special and 
differential treatment and flexibility on the implementation 
timeframe shall be provided; 
 
(5) In implementing tariff reduction and/or elimination under 
               
any arrangement concluded pursuant to subparagraph 2 of 
Article 6(3)(b)(i) of this Agreement, the Rules of Origin as 
set out in Annex 5 of this Agreement shall be applicable;  
 
(6) Any arrangement concluded pursuant to subparagraph 2 of 
               
Article 6(3)(b)(i) of this Agreement shall be jointly notified 
by the concluding parties to the rest of the ASEAN Member 
States through the ASEAN Secretariat, which shall annex it 
administratively to this Agreement without the need for any 
Protocol to amend this Agreement.  The ASEAN Secretariat 
shall provide every ASEAN Member State and China with a 
copy  of  such  arrangement  with  the  appropriate  annex 
numbering; 
 
(7) Any ASEAN Member State that intends to accede to any 
               
arrangement  concluded  pursuant  to  subparagraph  2  of 
Article 6(3)(b)(i) of this Agreement shall notify the original 
parties to such  arrangement of its intention in writing, and 
shall provide copies of such notification to the other ASEAN 
Member States through the ASEAN Secretariat; and 
 
(8) Any acceleration arrangement  concluded pursuant to the 
               
terms and conditions set forth in Article 6(3)(b)(i) of this 
Agreement,  including  any  acceleration  arrangement 
concluded  before  the  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement, 
shall form an integral part of this Agreement.” 
 
 6 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Amendment of Article 6(3)(c) of the Framework Agreement 
 
 
1. Article  6(3)(c)  of  the  Framework  Agreement  shall  be  amended  by 
 
inserting a new paragraph immediately after the existing Article 6(3)(c) of the 
Framework  Agreement  and  by  renumbering  those  paragraphs  as  Article 
6(3)(c)(i), Article 6(3)(c)(ii) and Article 6(3)(c)(iii) respectively as follows: 
 
“(c)  Rules of Origin 
 
(i) The Rules of Origin are set out in Annex 5 of this 
                
Agreement. 
 
(ii) The text of the Rules of Origin shall be applicable to 
              
the products covered under the Early Harvest Programme.  
 
(iii)  Negotiations on the Product Specific Rules, which appear as 
Attachment B of the Rules of Origin, shall commence in 
January 2004.” 
 
2.  The Framework Agreement is amended by inserting as Annex 5 the Rules 
of Origin set out in Appendix 1 of this Protocol. 
 
 7 
 
 
ARTICLE 4  
Amendment to insert new Article 12A into the Framework Agreement  
 
The Framework Agreement shall be amended by inserting a new Article 12A 
immediately after the existing Article 12 of the Framework Agreement as 
follows: 
 8 
 
 
ARTICLE 12A 
Agreements Outside this Agreement 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or prohibit any individual ASEAN 
Member State from entering into any bilateral or plurilateral agreement with 
China and/or the rest of the ASEAN Member States relating to trade in goods, 
trade in services, investment, and/or other areas of economic co-operation 
outside the ambit of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement shall not 
apply to any such bilateral or plurilateral agreement.” 
 
 9 
 
 
ARTICLE 5  
Substitution of Annex 1 of the Framework Agreement 
 
The existing Annex 1 of the Framework Agreement shall be substituted by the 
new Annex 1 as set out in Appendix 2 of this Protocol. 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Substitution of Annex 2 of the Framework Agreement 
 
The existing Annex 2 of the Framework Agreement shall be substituted by the 
new Annex 2 as set out in Appendix 3 of this Protocol. 
 
 11 
 
 
ARTICLE 7  
Incorporation of Early Harvest Schedules of Commitments 
 
All Parties shall incorporate all of their commitments under the Early Harvest 
Programme of the Framework Agreement, as contained in Appendix 2 and 
Appendix 3 of this Protocol, in their respective schedules of the Early Harvest 
Concessions, which will form an integral part of the Framework Agreement, 
and shall promptly deposit such Schedules of Commitments with the ASEAN 
Secretariat. 
 
 12 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Entry into Force 
     
1.  This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Framework Agreement 
and shall enter into force upon the date of signature. 
 
2.  For ASEAN Member States, this Protocol shall be deposited with the 
ASEAN Secretariat which shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof to 
each ASEAN Member State. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised by their 
respective Governments, have signed this Protocol to Amend the Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-operation between the Association 
of South East Asian Nations and the People’s Republic of China. 
 
 
DONE at Bali, Indonesia this Sixth Day of October in the Year Two Thousand 
and Three, in duplicate copies in the English language. 
 
 
 
 