1 
 
Content 
 
Preamble ........................................................................................ 3 
Article 1 – Objectives .................................................................... 5 
Article 2 – Measures for Comprehensive Economic Co-Operation   
 ...................................................................................... 6 
Article 3 – Trade in Goods ...................................................... 7 – 9 
Article 4 – Trade in Services ....................................................... 10 
Article 5 – Investment .................................................................. 11 
Article 6 – Early Harvest ....................................................... 12 -14 
Article 7 – Other Areas of Economic Co-Operation ................... 15 
Article 8 – Timeframes ................................................................ 16 
Article 9 – Most-Favoured Nation Treatment ............................. 17 
Article 10 - General Exceptions................................................... 18 
Article 11 – Dispute Settlement Mechanism ............................... 19 
Article 12 – Institutional Arrangement for the Negotiations ....... 20 
Article 13 – Miscellaneous Provisions ........................................ 21 
Article 14 – Amendments ............................................................ 22 
Article 15 – Depostiary ................................................................ 23 
Article 16 – Entry into Force ....................................................... 24 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic 
Co-Operation between ASEAN and the People's 
Republic of China  
 
Phnom Penh, 5 November 2002 3 
 
PREAMBLE 
  
WE, the Heads of Government/State of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of 
Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic 
("Lao PDR"), Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, 
the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic 
of Viet Nam, Member States of the Association of South East Asian Nations 
(collectively, “ASEAN” or “ASEAN Member States”, or individually, 
“ASEAN Member State”), and the People’s Republic of China (“China”): 
  
Recalling our decision made at the ASEAN-China Summit held on 6 November 
2001 in Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei Darussalam, regarding a Framework on 
Economic Co-operation and to establish an ASEAN-China Free Trade Area 
(“ASEAN-China FTA”) within ten years with special and differential treatment 
and flexibility for the newer ASEAN Member States of Cambodia, Lao PDR, 
Myanmar and Viet Nam (“the newer ASEAN Member States”) and with 
provision for an early harvest in which the list of products and services will be 
determined by mutual consultation; 
  
Desiring to adopt a Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-
operation (“this Agreement”) between ASEAN and China (collectively, “the 
Parties”, or individually referring to an ASEAN Member State or to China as a 
“Party”) that is forward-looking in order to forge closer economic relations in 
the 21st century; 
  
Desiring to minimise barriers and deepen economic linkages between the 
Parties; lower costs; increase intra-regional trade and investment; increase 
economic efficiency; create a larger market with greater opportunities and larger 
economies of scale for the businesses of the Parties; and enhance the 
attractiveness of the Parties to capital and talent; 
  
Being confident that the establishment of an ASEAN-China FTA will create a 
partnership between the Parties, and provide an important mechanism for 
strengthening co-operation and supporting economic stability in East Asia; 
  
Recognising the important role and contribution of the business sector in 
enhancing trade and investment between the Parties and the need to further 
promote and facilitate their co-operation and utilisation of greater business 
opportunities provided by the ASEAN-China FTA; 
  4 
 
Recognising the different stages of economic development among ASEAN 
Member States and the need for flexibility, in particular the need to facilitate the 
increasing participation of the newer ASEAN Member States in the ASEAN-
China economic co-operation and the expansion of their exports, including, 
inter alia, through the strengthening of their domestic capacity, efficiency and 
competitiveness; 
  
Reaffirming the rights, obligations and undertakings of the respective parties 
under the World Trade Organisation (WTO), and other multilateral, regional 
and bilateral agreements and arrangements; 
  
Recognising the catalytic role that regional trade arrangements can contribute 
towards accelerating regional and global liberalisation and as building blocks in 
the framework of the multilateral trading system; 
  
Have agreed as follows: 
  5 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Objectives 
  
The objectives of this Agreement are to: 
a.  strengthen and enhance economic, trade and investment co-operation 
between the Parties; 
b.  progressively liberalise and promote trade in goods and services as well 
as create a transparent, liberal and facilitative investment regime; 
c.  explore new areas and develop appropriate measures for closer economic 
co-operation between the Parties; and 
d.  facilitate the more effective economic integration of the newer ASEAN 
Member States and bridge the development gap among the Parties. 
  6 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Measures For Comprehensive Economic Co-operation 
The Parties agree to negotiate expeditiously in order to establish an ASEAN-
China FTA within 10 years, and to strengthen and enhance economic co-
operation through the following: 
a.  progressive elimination of tariffs and non-tariff barriers in substantially 
all trade in goods; 
b.  progressive liberalisation of trade in services with substantial sectoral 
coverage; 
c.  establishment of an open and competitive investment regime that 
facilitates and promotes investment within the ASEAN-China FTA;  
d.  provision of special and differential treatment and flexibility to the newer 
ASEAN Member States; 
e.  provision of flexibility to the Parties in the ASEAN-China FTA 
negotiations to address their sensitive areas in the goods, services and 
investment sectors with such flexibility to be negotiated and mutually 
agreed based on the principle of reciprocity and mutual benefits;  
f.  establishment of effective trade and investment facilitation measures, 
including, but not limited to, simplification of customs procedures and 
development of mutual recognition arrangements; 
g.  expansion of economic co-operation in areas as may be mutually agreed 
between the Parties that will complement the deepening of trade and 
investment links between the Parties and formulation of action plans and 
programmes in order to implement the agreed sectors/areas of co-
operation; and  
h.  establishment of appropriate mechanisms for the purposes of effective 
implementation of this Agreement. 
  7 
 
PART 1 
ARTICLE 3 
Trade In Goods 
1.  In addition to the Early Harvest Programme under Article 6 of this 
Agreement, and with a view to expediting the expansion of trade in 
goods, the Parties agree to enter into negotiations in which duties and 
other restrictive regulations of commerce (except, where necessary, those 
permitted under Article XXIV (8)(b) of the WTO General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade (GATT)) shall be eliminated on substantially all trade 
in goods between the Parties. 
2.  For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply 
unless the context otherwise requires: 
a.  “ASEAN 6” refers to Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, 
Singapore and Thailand; 
b.  “applied MFN tariff rates” shall include in-quota rates, and shall: 
i.  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are WTO 
members as of 1 July 2003) and China, refer to their 
respective applied rates as of 1 July 2003; and 
ii.  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are non-WTO 
members as of 1 July 2003), refer to the rates as applied to 
China as of 1 July 2003; 
c.  “non-tariff measures” shall include non-tariff barriers. 
3.  The tariff reduction or elimination programme of the Parties shall require 
tariffs on listed products to be gradually reduced and where applicable, 
eliminated, in accordance with this Article. 
4.  The products which are subject to the tariff reduction or elimination 
programme under this Article shall include all products not covered by 
the Early Harvest Programme under Article 6 of this Agreement, and 
such products shall be categorised into 2 Tracks as follows: 
a.  Normal Track: Products listed in the Normal Track by a Party on 
its own accord shall: 
i.  have their respective applied MFN tariff rates gradually 
reduced or eliminated in accordance with specified schedules 
and rates (to be mutually agreed by the Parties) over a period 8 
 
from 1 January 2005 to 2010 for ASEAN 6 and China, and 
in the case of the newer ASEAN Member States, the period 
shall be from 1 January 2005 to 2015 with higher starting 
tariff rates and different staging; and 
ii.  in respect of those tariffs which have been reduced but have 
not been eliminated under paragraph 4(a)(i) above, they shall 
be progressively eliminated within timeframes to be 
mutually agreed between the Parties. 
b.  Sensitive Track: Products listed in the Sensitive Track by a Party 
on its own accord shall: 
i.  have their respective applied MFN tariff rates reduced in 
accordance with the mutually agreed end rates and end dates; 
and 
ii.  where applicable, have their respective applied MFN tariff 
rates progressively eliminated within timeframes to be 
mutually agreed between the parties 
 
5.  The number of products listed in the Sensitive Track shall be subject to a 
maximum ceiling to be mutually agreed among the Parties. 
6.  The commitments undertaken by the Parties under this Article and Article 
6 of this Agreement shall fulfil the WTO requirements to eliminate tariffs 
on substantially all the trade between the Parties. 
7.  The specified tariff rates to be mutually agreed between the Parties 
pursuant to this Article shall set out only the limits of the applicable tariff 
rates or range for the specified year of implementation by the Parties and 
shall not prevent any Party from accelerating its tariff reduction or 
elimination if it so wishes to. 
8.  The negotiations between the Parties to establish the ASEAN-China FTA 
covering trade in goods shall also include, but not be limited to the 
following: 
a.  other detailed rules governing the tariff reduction or elimination 
programme for the Normal Track and the Sensitive Track as well 
as any other related matters, including principles governing 
reciprocal commitments, not provided for in the preceding 
paragraphs of this Article; 
b.  Rules of Origin; 
c.  treatment of out-of-quota rates; 9 
 
d.  modification of a Party’s commitments under the agreement on 
trade in goods based on Article XXVIII of the GATT; 
e.  non-tariff measures imposed on any products covered under this 
Article or Article 6 of this Agreement, including, but not limited to 
quantitative restrictions or prohibition on the importation of any 
product or on the export or sale for export of any product, as well 
as scientifically unjustifiable sanitary and phytosanitary measures 
and technical barriers to trade; 
f.  safeguards based on the GATT principles, including, but not 
limited to the following elements: transparency, coverage, 
objective criteria for action, including the concept of serious injury 
or threat thereof, and temporary nature; 
g.  disciplines on subsidies and countervailing measures and anti-
dumping measures based on the existing GATT disciplines; and 
h.  facilitation and promotion of effective and adequate protection of 
trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights based on 
existing WTO, World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) 
and other relevant disciplines. 
  
 10 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Trade In Services 
With a view to expediting the expansion of trade in services, the Parties agree to 
enter into negotiations to progressively liberalise trade in services with 
substantial sectoral coverage.  Such negotiations shall be directed to: 
a.  progressive elimination of substantially all discrimination between or 
among the Parties and/or prohibition of new or more discriminatory 
measures with respect to trade in services between the Parties, except for 
measures permitted under Article V(1)(b) of the WTO General 
Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS); 
b.  expansion in the depth and scope of liberalisation of trade in services 
beyond those undertaken by ASEAN Member States and China under the 
GATS; and 
c.  enhanced co-operation in services between the Parties in order to improve 
efficiency and competitiveness, as well as to diversify the supply and 
distribution of services of the respective service suppliers of the Parties.  
  11 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Investment 
To promote investments and to create a liberal, facilitative, transparent and 
competitive investment regime, the Parties agree to: 
a.  enter into negotiations in order to progressively liberalise the investment 
regime; 
b.  strengthen co-operation in investment, facilitate investment and improve 
transparency of investment rules and regulations; and 
c.   provide for the protection of investments. 
  12 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Early Harvest  
1.  With a view to accelerating the implementation of this Agreement, the 
Parties agree to implement an Early Harvest Programme (which is an 
integral part of the ASEAN-China FTA) for products covered under 
paragraph 3(a) below and which will commence and end in accordance 
with the timeframes set out in this Article.   
2.  For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply 
unless the context otherwise requires: 
a.  “ASEAN 6” refers to Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, 
Singapore and Thailand; 
b.  “applied MFN tariff rates” shall include in-quota rates, and shall:  
i.  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are WTO 
members as of 1 July 2003) and China, refer to their 
respective applied rates as of 1 July 2003; and 
ii.  in the case of ASEAN Member States (which are non-WTO 
members as of 1 July 2003), refer to the tariff rates as 
applied to China as of 1 July 2003. 
3.  The product coverage, tariff reduction and elimination, implementation 
timeframes, rules of origin, trade remedies and emergency measures 
applicable to the Early Harvest Programme shall be as follows: 
a.  Product Coverage 
i.  All products in the following chapters at the 8/9 digit level 
(HS Code) shall be covered by the Early Harvest 
Programme, unless otherwise excluded by a Party in its 
Exclusion List as set out in Annex 1 of this Agreement, in 
which case these products shall be exempted for that Party: 13 
 
ii.   
  
ii.  A Party which has placed products in the Exclusion List 
may, at any time, amend the Exclusion List to place one or 
more of these products under the Early Harvest Programme. 
iii.  The specific products set out in Annex 2 of this Agreement 
shall be covered by the Early Harvest Programme and the 
tariff concessions shall apply only to the parties indicated in 
Annex 2. These parties must have extended the tariff 
concessions on these products to each other. 
iv.  For those parties which are unable to complete the 
appropriate product lists in Annex 1 or Annex 2, the lists 
may still be drawn up no later than 1 March 2003 by mutual 
agreement. 
b.  Tariff Reduction and Elimination  
i.  All products covered under the Early Harvest Programme 
shall be divided into 3 product categories for tariff reduction 
and elimination as defined and to be implemented in 
accordance with the timeframes set out in Annex 3 to this 
Agreement. This paragraph shall not prevent any Party from 
accelerating its tariff reduction or elimination if it so wishes. 
ii.  All products where the applied MFN tariff rates are at 0%, 
shall remain at 0%. 
iii.  Where the implemented tariff rates are reduced to 0%, they 
shall remain at 0%. 
iv.  A Party shall enjoy the tariff concessions of all the other 
parties for a product covered under paragraph 3(a)(i) above 14 
 
so long as the same product of that Party remains in the 
Early Harvest Programme under paragraph 3(a)(i) above. 
c.  Interim Rules of Origin 
The Interim Rules of Origin applicable to the products covered 
under the Early Harvest Programme shall be negotiated and 
completed by July 2003. The Interim Rules of Origin shall be 
superseded and replaced by the Rules of Origin to be negotiated 
and implemented by the Parties under Article 3(8)(b) of this 
Agreement. 
d.  Application of WTO provisions  
The WTO provisions governing modification of commitments, 
safeguard actions, emergency measures and other trade remedies, 
including anti-dumping and subsidies and countervailing measures, 
shall, in the interim, be applicable to the products covered under 
the Early Harvest Programme and shall be superseded and replaced 
by the relevant disciplines negotiated and agreed to by the Parties 
under Article 3(8) of this Agreement once these disciplines are 
implemented. 
4.  In addition to the Early Harvest Programme for trade in goods as 
provided for in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, the Parties will 
explore the feasibility of an early harvest programme for trade in services 
in early 2003. 
5.  With a view to promoting economic co-operation between the Parties, the 
activities set out in Annex 4 of this Agreement shall be undertaken or 
implemented on an accelerated basis, as the case may be. 
  15 
 
PART 2 
ARTICLE 7 
Other Areas Of Economic Co-operation 
1.  The Parties agree to strengthen their co-operation in 5 priority sectors as 
follows: 
a.  agriculture; 
b.  information and communications technology; 
c.  human resources development; 
d.  investment; and 
e.  Mekong River basin development. 
2.  Co-operation shall be extended to other areas, including, but not limited 
to, banking, finance, tourism, industrial co-operation, transport, 
telecommunications, intellectual property rights, small and medium 
enterprises (SMEs), environment, bio-technology, fishery, forestry and 
forestry products, mining, energy and sub-regional development.  
3.  Measures to strengthen co-operation shall include, but shall not be limited 
to:  
a.  promotion and facilitation of trade in goods and services, and 
investment, such as: 
ii.  standards and conformity assessment; 
iii.  technical barriers to trade/non-tariff measures; and 
iv.  customs co-operation; 
b.  increasing the competitiveness of SMEs; 
c.  promotion of electronic commerce; 
d.  capacity building; and 
e.  technology transfer. 
4.  The Parties agree to implement capacity building programmes and 
technical assistance, particularly for the newer ASEAN Member States, 
in order to adjust their economic structure and expand their trade and 
investment with China. 
  16 
 
PART 3 
ARTICLE 8 
Timeframes 
1.  For trade in goods, the negotiations on the agreement for tariff reduction 
or elimination and other matters as set out in Article 3 of this Agreement 
shall commence in early 2003 and be concluded by 30 June 2004 in order 
to establish the ASEAN-China FTA covering trade in goods by 2010 for 
Brunei, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and 
Thailand, and by 2015 for the newer ASEAN Member States. 
2.  The negotiations on the Rules of Origin for trade in goods under Article 3 
of this Agreement shall be completed no later than December 2003. 
3.  For trade in services and investments, the negotiations on the respective 
agreements shall commence in 2003 and be concluded as expeditiously as 
possible for implementation in accordance with the timeframes to be 
mutually agreed: (a) taking into account the sensitive sectors of the 
Parties; and (b) with special and differential treatment and flexibility for 
the newer ASEAN Member States. 
4.  For other areas of economic co-operation under Part 2 of this Agreement, 
the Parties shall continue to build upon existing or agreed programmes set 
out in Article 7 of this Agreement, develop new economic co-operation 
programmes and conclude agreements on the various areas of economic 
co-operation.  The Parties shall do so expeditiously for early 
implementation in a manner and at a pace acceptable to all the parties 
concerned. The agreements shall include timeframes for the 
implementation of the commitments therein. 
  17 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Most-Favoured Nation Treatment 
China shall accord Most-Favoured Nation (MFN) Treatment consistent with 
WTO rules and disciplines to all the non-WTO ASEAN Member States upon 
the date of signature of this Agreement. 
  18 
 
ARTICLE 10 
General Exceptions 
  
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner 
which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination 
between or among the Parties where the same conditions prevail, or a disguised 
restriction on trade within the ASEAN-China FTA, nothing in this Agreement 
shall prevent any Party from taking and adopting measures for the protection of 
its national security or the protection of articles of artistic, historic and 
archaeological value, or such other measures which it deems necessary for the 
protection of public morals, or for the protection of human, animal or plant life 
and health. 
  19 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Dispute Settlement Mechanism 
1.  The Parties shall, within 1 year after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement, establish appropriate formal dispute settlement procedures 
and mechanism for the purposes of this Agreement. 
2.  Pending the establishment of the formal dispute settlement procedures 
and mechanism under paragraph 1 above, any disputes concerning the 
interpretation, implementation or application of this Agreement shall be 
settled amicably by consultations and/or mediation.  
  20 
 
ARTICLE 12 
Institutional Arrangements For The Negotiations 
  
1.  The ASEAN-China Trade Negotiation Committee (ASEAN-China TNC) 
that has been established shall continue to carry out the programme of 
negotiations set out in this Agreement. 
2.  The Parties may establish other bodies as may be necessary to co-ordinate 
and implement any economic co-operation activities undertaken pursuant 
to this Agreement. 
3.  The ASEAN-China TNC and any aforesaid bodies shall report regularly 
to the ASEAN Economic Ministers (AEM) and the Minister of the 
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Co-operation (MOFTEC) of 
China, through the meetings of the ASEAN Senior Economic Officials 
(SEOM) and MOFTEC, on the progress and outcome of its negotiations. 
4.  The ASEAN Secretariat and MOFTEC shall jointly provide the necessary 
secretariat support to the ASEAN-China TNC whenever and wherever 
negotiations are held. 
  21 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
1.  This Agreement shall include the Annexes and the contents therein, and 
all future legal instruments agreed pursuant to this Agreement. 
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement or any 
action taken under it shall not affect or nullify the rights and obligations 
of a Party under existing agreements to which it is a party. 
3.  The Parties shall endeavour to refrain from increasing restrictions or 
limitations that would affect the application of this Agreement. 
  22 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Amendments 
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through amendments 
mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties. 
 
 23 
 
ARTICLE 15 
 
Depositary 
For the ASEAN Member States, this Agreement shall be deposited with the 
Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy 
thereof, to each ASEAN Member State. 
 
 24 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Entry Into Force 
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 July 2003. 
2.  The Parties undertake to complete their internal procedures for the entry 
into force of this Agreement prior to 1 July 2003.  
3.  Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry 
into force of this Agreement by 1 July 2003, the rights and obligations of 
that Party under this Agreement shall commence on the date of the 
completion of such internal procedures. 
4.  A Party shall upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry 
into force of this Agreement notify all the other parties in writing. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE have signed this Framework Agreement on 
Comprehensive Economic Co-operation between the Association of South East 
Asian Nations and the People’s Republic of China. 
  
DONE at Phnom Penh, this 4th day of November, 2002 in duplicate copies in 
the English Language. 
  
  
  
 