OVERLEAF NOTES 
 
1.  Parties which accept this form for the purpose of preferential treatment under the ASEAN-CHINA Free Trade Area Preferential Tariff: 
 
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM     CAMBODIA      CHINA 
INDONESIA        LAOS        MALAYSIA 
MYANMAR        PHILIPPINES      SINGAPORE 
THAILAND        VIETNAM  
 
2.  CONDITIONS: The main conditions for admission to the preferential treatment under the ACFTA Preferential Tariff are that products 
sent to any Parties listed above: 
 
(i)  must fall within a description of products eligible for concessions in the country of destination;  
 
(ii)  must comply with the consignment conditions that the products must be consigned directly from any ACFTA Party to the 
importing Party but transport that involves passing through one or more intermediate non-ACFTA Parties, is also accepted 
provided  that  any  intermediate  transit,  transshipment  or  temporary  storage  arises  only  for  geographic  reasons  or 
transportation requirements; and 
 
(iii)  must comply with the origin criteria given in the next paragraph. 
 
3.  ORIGIN CRITERIA: For exports to the above mentioned countries to be eligible for preferential treatment, the requirement is that 
either: 
 
(i)  The products wholly obtained in the exporting Party as defined in Rule 3 of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA; 
 
(ii)  Subject to sub-paragraph (i) above, for the purpose of implementing the provisions of Rule 2 (b) of the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA, products worked on and processed as a result of which the total value of the materials, parts or produce originating 
from non-ACFTA Parties or of undetermined origin used does not exceed 60% of the FOB value of the product produced or 
obtained and the final process of the manufacture is  performed within territory of the exporting Party;  
 
(iii)  Products which comply with origin requirements provided for in Rule 2 of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA and which are 
used in a Party as inputs for a finished product eligible for preferential treatment in another Party/Parties shall be considered 
as a product originating in the Party where working or processing of the finished product has taken place provided that the 
aggregate ACFTA content of the final product is not less than 40%; or 
 
(iv)  Products which satisfy the Product Specific Rules provided for in Attachment B of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA shall be 
considered as products to which sufficient transformation has been carried out in a Party. 
 
If the products qualify under the above criteria, the exporter must indicate in Box 8 of this form the origin criteria on the basis of which 
he claims that his products qualify for preferential treatment, in the manner shown in the following table: 
 
 
4.  EACH ARTICLE MUST QUALIFY: It should be noted that all the products in a consignment must qualify separately in their own right. 
This is of particular relevance when similar articles of different sizes or spare parts are sent. 
 
5.  DESCRIPTION OF PRODUCTS: The description of products must be sufficiently detailed to enable the products to be identified by 
the Customs Officers examining them. Name of manufacturer, any trade mark shall also be specified. 
 
6.  The Harmonised System number shall be that of the importing Party. 
 
7.  The term “Exporter” in Box 11 may include the manufacturer or the producer. In the case of MC the term “Exporter” also includes the 
exporter in the intermediate Party, 
 
8.  FOR OFFICIAL USE: The Customs Authority of the importing Party must indicate ( (cid:57) ) in the relevant boxes in column 4 whether or 
not preferential treatment is accorded 
 
9.  Movement Certificate: In cases of Movement Certificate, in accordance with Rule 12 of the Operational Certification Procedures, 
“Movement Certificate” in Box 13 should be ticked (√). The name of original Issuing Authorities of the Party, date of the issuance 
and the reference number of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E) to be indicated in Box 13.  
 
      10.  THIRD PARTY INVOICING: In cases where invoices are issued by a third country, “the Third Party Invoicing” in Box 13 shall be 
ticked (√). The invoice number shall be indicated in Box 10. Information such as name and country of the company issuing the 
invoice shall be indicated in Box 7.  
 
11.  EXHIBITIONS: In cases where products are sent from the exporting Party for exhibition in another Party  and sold during or after 
the exhibition for importation into a Party, in accordance with Rule 22 of Attachment A of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA, the 
“Exhibitions” in Box 13 should be ticked (√) and the name and address of the exhibition indicated in Box 2. 
12.  ISSUED RETROACTIVELY: In exceptional cases, due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid causes, the Certificate of 
Origin (Form E) may be issued retroactively in accordance with Rule 11 of Attachment A of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA. 
The “Issued Retroactively” in Box 13 shall be ticked (√). 
 
 