 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT B (PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES) 
 
As Amended by the Protocol to Amend the Framework Agreement on 
Comprehensive Economic Co-operation between ASEAN and China 
(ACFTA Upgrading Protocol) 
   ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES 
 
Preamble 
 
For the purpose of Article 4: Product Specific Rules of the Rules of Origin for the ASEAN-
China Free Trade Area (ASEAN-China FTA) as set out in ANNEX 1 of the Protocol to 
Amend the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-operation between 
ASEAN and China (ACFTA Upgrading Protocol), products which satisfy the Product 
Specific Rules set out herein shall be considered as goods which have undergone 
sufficient transformation, and hence shall be treated as the originating products of a Party 
in whose territory such transformation took place. 
 
A country of origin of a product shall be a Party in whose territory the last sufficient 
transformation of that product was performed.  As for a product whose production took 
place in the territories of two or more Parties, originating status shall be conferred on a 
Party in whose territory the last sufficient transformation took place. 
 
General Notes to the Attachment 
 
1.  For the purpose of interpreting the Product Specific Rules set forth in this Annex: 
 
  (a)  chapter means the first two digits  of the  tariff classification number under the 
HS Code; 
  (b)  heading means the first four digits of the tariff classification number under the 
HS Code; and 
  (c)  sub-heading means the first six digits of the tariff classification number under 
the HS Code. 
 
2.  This Annex is set out as follows: 
 
  (a)  Column 1 – Tariff Heading (4-digit) 
  (b)  Column 2 – Tariff Sub-Heading (6-digit) 
  (c)  Column 3 – Product Description 
  (d)  Column 4 – Applicable Product Specific Rule(s) of Origin. 
 
3.  Where a tariff heading or sub-heading is subject to alternative Product Specific 
Rules, it shall be sufficient to comply with one of the rules. 
 
4.  Where the Product Specific Rule requires only a regional value content, the final 
process of production must be performed within a Party. 
 
5.  A requirement of a change in tariff classification, including any exclusion of a 
change from other tariff classifications, applies only to non-originating materials.6 6.  For the purposes of column 4 of this Annex: 
 
  “WO” means wholly produced or obtained in accordance with Article 3 (Goods 
Wholly Produced or Obtained) of Annex 1 of the ACFTA Upgrading Protocol (Rules 
of Origin); 
 
  “RVC(XX)”  means  a  regional  value  content  of  not  less  than  XX  per  cent  as 
calculated under Article 5 (Calculation of Regional Value Content) of Annex 1 of the 
ACFTA Upgrading Protocol (Rules of Origin); 
 
  “CC” means a change in tariff classification at the 2-digit level; 
 
  “CTH” means a change in tariff classification at the 4-digit level; 
 
  “CTSH” means a change in tariff classification at the 6-digit level. 
 
“Process  Rule  1”  means  manufacturing  through  process  of  fibre-making 
(polymerisation, polycondensation and extrusion) spinning, twisting, texturizing or 
braiding from a blend or any of following: 
-  Silk 
-  Wool, fine/coarse animal hair 
-  Cotton fibres 
-  Vegetable textile fibres 
-  Synthetic or artificial filaments/man-made filaments 
-  Synthetic or artificial staple fibres/man-made staple fibres 
 
“Process Rule 2” means manufacturing from: 
-  Polymer (non-woven) 
-  Fibres (non-woven) 
-  Yarns (fabrics) 
-  Raw or Unbleached Fabrics (finished fabrics) 
 
through substantial transformation process of either: 
-  needle punching / spin bonding / chemical bonding 
-  weaving or knitting; 
-  crochetting or wadding or tufting; or 
- dyeing or printing and finishing; or impregnation, coating, covering or lamination. 
 
“Process Rule 3” means manufacturing through the processes of cutting and 
assembly of parts into a complete article (for apparel and tents) and incorporating 
embroidery or embellishment or printing (for made-up articles) from: 
-  raw or unbleached fabric; 
-  finished fabric. 
 
  