 
Appendix 1       
               ATTACHMENT A 
 
REVISED OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES (OCP) FOR 
THE RULES OF ORIGIN OF THE ASEAN-CHINA FREE TRADE AREA 
 
 
 
For the purpose of implementing the Rules of Origin for the ASEAN-China Free 
Trade Area (ACFTA), the following operational procedures on the issuance and 
verification of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and other related administrative 
matters shall be followed: 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Rule 1 
 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
 
‘Movement  Certificate’  means  a  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  issued  by  an 
intermediate exporting Party, based on the original Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
issued by the first exporting Party proving the origin status of the products in 
question; 
 
‘Customs Authority’ means the competent authority that is responsible under the 
law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations1; 
 
‘Exporter’ means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party 
from where a product is exported by such a person; 
 
‘Importer’ means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party 
into where a product is imported by such a person; 
 
‘Issuing Authorities’ means any government authority or other entity authorized 
under the domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules of a Party to issue 
a Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
1 Such laws and regulations administered and enforced by the Customs Authority of each Party concerning 
importation, exportation and transit of products as they relate to customs duties, charges or other taxes or 
prohibitions, restrictions and controls with respect to the movement of controlled items across the boundary 
of the Customs Authority of each Party. 
  1 
 
ISSUING AUTHORITIES 
 
Rule 2 
 
The Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be issued by the Issuing Authorities of the 
exporting Party. 
 
Rule 3 
 
(a)  A Party shall inform all the other Parties of the names and addresses of its 
respective  Issuing  Authorities  and  shall  provide  specimen  signatures  and 
specimen of official seals, and correction stamps, if any, used by its Issuing 
Authorities. 
 
(b)   The above information and specimens shall be provided to all the other 
Parties to the Agreement and a copy furnished to the ASEAN Secretariat. A 
Party  shall  promptly  inform  all  the  other  Parties  of  any  changes  in  names, 
addresses, or official seals in the same manner. 
 
Rule 4 
 
For the purpose of verifying the conditions for preferential treatment, the Issuing 
Authorities shall have the right to call for any supporting documentary evidence 
or  to  carry  out  any  checks  considered  appropriate.  If  such  right  cannot  be 
obtained through the existing domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules, 
it shall be inserted as a clause in the application form referred to in Rules 5 and 
6. 
 
APPLICATIONS 
 
Rule 5 
 
(a)  The  exporter  and/or  the  manufacturer  of  the  products  qualified  for 
preferential treatment shall apply in writing to the Issuing Authorities requesting 
for the pre-exportation verification of the origin of the products. The result of the 
verification,  subject  to  review  periodically  or  whenever  appropriate,  shall  be 
accepted as the supporting evidence in verifying the origin of the said products to 
be exported thereafter. The pre-verification may not apply to the products of 
which, by their nature, origin can be easily verified. 
 
(b)  For locally-procured materials, self-declaration by the final manufacturer 
exporting under the ACFTA shall be used as the basis when applying for the 
issuance of the Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
  2 
Rule 6 
 
At  the  time  of  carrying  out  the  formalities  for  exporting  the  products  under 
preferential treatment, the exporter or his authorised representative shall submit 
a  written  application  for  the  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  together  with 
appropriate  supporting  documents  proving  that  the  products  to  be  exported 
qualify for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
PRE-EXPORTATION EXAMINATION 
 
Rule 7 
 
The Issuing Authorities shall, to the best of their competence and ability, carry 
out proper examination of each application for the Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
to ensure that: 
 
(a)  The application and the Certificate of Origin (Form E) are duly completed 
in accordance with the requirements as defined in the overleaf notes of the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E), and signed by the authorised signatory; 
 
(b)  The origin of the product is in conformity with the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA; 
 
(c)  The other statements of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) correspond to 
supporting documentary evidence submitted; 
 
(d)  Description,  quantity  and  weight  of  products,  marks  and  number  of 
packages, number and kinds of packages, as specified, conform to the products 
to be exported; 
 
(e)  Multiple items declared on the same Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be 
allowed subject to the domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules of the 
importing Party provided each item must qualify separately in its own right2. 
 
 
ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN (FORM E) 
 
Rule 8 
 
 
(a)  The  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  must  be  in  ISO  A4  size  paper  in 
conformity  to  the  specimen  as  shown  in  Attachment  C.  It  shall  be  made  in 
English. 
                                                 
2  For the  purposes  of Rule 7(e), the number of multiple items declared on each Certificate of Origin (Form 
E) shall not exceed twenty (20) items. 
 
  3 
 
(b)  The Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall comprise one original and two (2) 
carbon copies of the following colours: 
 
Original -   Beige (Pantone color code: 727c) 
Duplicate-  Light Green (Pantone color code: 622c) 
Triplicate-  Light Green (Pantone color code: 622c) 
 
(c)  Each  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  shall  bear  a  reference  number 
separately given by each place of office of issuance. 
 
(d)  The original copy of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be forwarded 
by the exporter to the importer for submission to the Customs Authority at the 
port or place of importation. The duplicate copy shall be retained by the Issuing 
Authorities in the exporting Party. The triplicate copy shall be retained by the 
exporter. 
 
(e)   In cases when a Certificate of Origin (Form E) is rejected by the Customs 
Authority of the importing Party, the subject Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be 
marked accordingly in Box 4. 
 
(f)  In cases where a Certificate of Origin (Form E) is not accepted, as stated 
in paragraph (e), the Customs Authority of the importing Party shall consider the 
clarifications made by the Issuing Authorities and assess whether or not the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) can be accepted for the granting of the preferential 
treatment. The clarification shall be detailed and exhaustive in addressing the 
grounds for denial of preferential treatment raised by the importing Party. 
 
Rule 9 
 
To implement the provisions of Rule 2 of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA, the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued by the final exporting Party shall indicate the 
origin criteria or applicable percentage of ACFTA value content in Box 8. 
 
 
Rule 10 
 
Neither erasures nor superimposition shall be allowed on the Certificate of Origin 
(Form E). Any alteration shall be made by striking out the erroneous materials 
and making any addition required. Such alterations shall be approved by an 
official authorised to sign the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and certified with 
official seals or correction stamps of the Issuing Authorities. Unused spaces shall 
be crossed out to prevent any subsequent addition. 
 
 
 
  4 
Rule 11 
 
In principle, a Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be issued prior to or at the time 
of shipment. In exceptional cases where the Certificate of Origin (Form E) has 
not been issued by the time of shipment or no later than three (3) days from the 
date of shipment, at the request of the exporter, the Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
shall be issued retroactively in accordance with the domestic laws, regulations 
and administrative rules of the exporting Party within twelve (12) months from the 
date  of  shipment,  in  which  case  it  is  necessary  to  indicate  “ISSUED 
RETROACTIVELY” in Box 13.  In such cases, the importer of the product who 
claims the preferential treatment for the product may, subject to the domestic 
laws, regulations administrative rules of the importing Party, provide the Customs 
Authority of the importing Party with the Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued 
retroactively. 
 
Rule 12 
 
(a)  The Issuing Authorities of the intermediate Party within the ACFTA may 
issue a Movement Certificate (MC), if an application is made by the exporter 
while the product is passing through the territory, provided that:  
 
 
(i)  the importer of the intermediate Party and the exporter who applies 
for the MC in the intermediate Party are the same; 
 
(ii)   a valid original Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued by the first 
exporting Party  is presented; 
 
(iii)  information on the MC includes the names of the Issuing Authorities 
of the Party which issued the original Certificate of Origin (Form E), 
date of issuance and reference number. The FOB value shall be 
the  FOB  value  of  the  products  exported  from  the  intermediate 
Party; and 
 
(iv)  the  total  quantity  of  the  products  covered  in  the  MC  does  not 
exceed the total quantity of the products covered in the original 
Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
(b)  In the case of China, the MC shall be issued by Customs Authority. In the 
case  of  ASEAN  Member  States,  the  MC  shall  be  issued  by  the  Issuing 
Authorities. 
 
(c)   The  validity  of  the  MC  shall  have  the  same  end-date  as  the  original 
Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
  5 
 
(d)   The product which is to be re-exported using MC shall be under control of 
the Customs Authority of the intermediate Party. The products shall not undergo 
any  further  processing  in  the  intermediate  Party,  except  for  repacking  and 
logistics activities consistent with Rule 8 of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA3. 
 
(e)   The  verification  procedure  in  Rule  18  shall  also  apply  to  the  MC.  In 
particular,  the  Customs  Authority  of  the  importing  Party  may  request 
simultaneously the original exporting Party and the intermediate Party to provide 
information  regarding  the  original  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  E)  and  the  MC 
respectively,  such  as  the  first  exporter,  last  exporter,  reference  number, 
description of the products, country of origin and the port of discharge, within 
thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the request as the case maybe.  
 
 
Rule 13 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin (Form E), the 
exporter may apply in writing to the Issuing Authorities which issued it for the 
certified true copy of the original and the triplicate to be made on the basis of the 
export documents in their possession bearing the endorsement of the words 
“CERTIFIED  TRUE  COPY”  in  Box  12.  This  copy  shall  bear  the  date  of  the 
original Certificate of Origin (Form E). The certified true copy of a Certificate of 
Origin (Form E) shall be issued no later than one (1) year from the date of 
issuance of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E) and on condition that the 
exporter provides to the relevant Issuing Authorities the triplicate copy or any 
proof on the issuance of the original Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
PRESENTATION 
 
Rule 14 
 
The original copy of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall be submitted to the 
Customs  Authority  at  the  time  of  lodging  the  import  entry  for  the  products 
concerned claiming for preferential treatment in accordance with the domestic 
laws, regulations and administrative rules of the importing Party. 
 
Rule 15 
 
The Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall remain valid and must be submitted to the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party within one (1) year from the date of its 
issuance by the Issuing Authority of the exporting Party. 
 
                                                 
3 The products under control of the Customs Authority of the intermediate Party shall include products that 
remain in free  trade  zones or  locations approved by the said Customs Authority. 
  6 
Rule 16 
 
In the case of consignments of products originating in the exporting Party and not 
exceeding US$ 200.00 FOB, the production of a Certificate of Origin (Form E) 
shall be waived and the use of simplified declaration by the exporter that the 
products in question have originated in the exporting Party shall be accepted. 
Products sent through the post not exceeding US$200.00 FOB shall also be 
similarly treated. 
 
Rule 17 
 
(a)  Where  the  ACFTA  origin  of  the  product  is  not  in  doubt,  unsubstantial 
discrepancies, such as tariff classification differences between the statements 
made in the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and those made in the documents 
submitted to the Customs Authority of the importing Party for the purpose of 
carrying  out  the  formalities  for  importing  the  products  shall  not  ipso-facto 
invalidate the Certificate of Origin (Form E), if it does in fact correspond to the 
products submitted. 
 
(b)  In cases where the exporting Party and importing Party have unsubstantial 
discrepancies  as  indicated  in  paragraph  (a),  the  products  shall  be  released 
without any delay and subject to administrative measures, such as imposition of 
customs duties at the higher applied rate or its equivalent amount of deposit. 
Once the discrepancies have been resolved, the correct ACFTA rate is to be 
applied  and  any  overpaid  duty  shall  be  refunded,  in  accordance  with  the 
domestic laws, regulations and administrative rules of the importing Party.  
 
(c)  For multiple items declared under the same Certificate of Origin (Form E), 
a problem encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect or delay the 
granting of preferential treatment and customs clearance of the remaining items 
listed in the Certificate of Origin (Form E). Rule 18(a)(ii) may be applied to the 
problematic items. 
 
Rule 18 
 
(a)  The Customs Authority of the importing Party may request a retroactive 
check at random and/or when it has reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of 
the document or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of 
the products in question or of certain parts thereof. 
 
(i)   The request shall be made in writing, accompanied with a copy of 
the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and shall specify the reasons and 
any additional information suggesting that the particulars given on 
the said Certificate of Origin (Form E) may be inaccurate, unless 
the retroactive check is requested on a random basis. 
 
  7 
(ii)   The Customs Authority of the importing Party may suspend the 
granting  of  preferential  treatment  while  awaiting  the  result  of 
verification. However, it may release the products to the importer 
subject  to  any  administrative  measures  deemed  necessary, 
including imposition of customs duties at the higher applied rate or 
equivalent amount of deposit, provided that they are not held to be 
subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no suspicion 
of fraud.  
 
(iii)   The Customs Authority or the Issuing Authorities of the exporting 
Party receiving a request for retroactive check shall respond to the 
request promptly and reply not later than ninety (90) days after the 
receipt of the request. 
 
(b)  If the Customs Authority of the importing Party  is not satisfied with the 
outcome of the retroactive check, it may, under exceptional cases, request for 
verification visits to the exporting Party. 
 
(i)   Prior to the conduct of a verification visit pursuant to the provisions 
herein, the Customs Authority of the importing Party shall notify the 
competent authority of the exporting Party with an aim to mutually 
agree on the conditions and means of the verification visit. 
 
(ii)   The verification visit shall be conducted not later than sixty (60) 
days  after  receipt  of  the  notification  pursuant  to  sub-paragraph 
(b)(i). 
 
(c)  The verification process, including the retroactive check and verification visit, 
shall  be  carried  out  and  its  results  communicated  to  the  Customs  Authority 
and/or the Issuing Authorities of the exporting Party within a maximum of one 
hundred and eighty (180) days. While awaiting the results of the verification visit, 
sub-paragraph  (a)(ii)  on  the  suspension  of  preferential  treatment    shall  be 
applied. 
 
(d)  The preferential treatment may be denied when the exporting Party fails to 
respond  to  the  request  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Customs  Authority  of  the 
importing Party in the course of a retroactive check or verification process, as the 
case may be, within the time frame for verification under paragraphs (a), (b) and 
(c). 
 
(e)    Each  Party  shall  maintain  the  confidentiality  of  the  information  and 
documents provided by the other Party in the course of verification process. Such 
information and documents shall not be used for other purposes, including being 
used as evidence in administrative and judicial proceedings, without the explicit 
written permission of the Party providing such information. 
 
  8 
 
RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT 
 
Rule 19 
 
(a)  The application for the Certificate of Origin (Form E) and all documents 
related to such application shall be retained by the Issuing Authorities for not less 
than three (3) years from the date of issuance. 
 
(b)  Information relating to the validity of the Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall 
be furnished upon request by the importing Party. 
 
(c)  Any information communicated between the Parties concerned shall be 
treated as confidential and shall be used for the validation of the Certificate of 
Origin (Form E) purposes only. 
 
(d)  For the purposes of the verification process/retroactive check pursuant to 
Rule 18 the producer and/or exporter applying for the issuance of a Certificate of 
Origin  (Form  E)  shall,  subject  to  the  domestic  laws,  regulations  and 
administrative  rules  of  the  exporting  Party,  keep  its  supporting  records  for 
application for not less than three (3) years from the date of issuance of the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
SPECIAL CASES 
 
Rule 20 
 
When the destination of the products exported to a specified Party is changed, 
before or after their arrival in the Party, the following rules shall be observed: 
 
(a)  If the products have already been submitted to the Customs Authority in 
the specified importing Party, the Certificate of Origin (Form E) shall, by a written 
application of the importer, be endorsed to address the situation. The original 
shall be kept by the Customs Authority and the photocopy of the Certificate of 
Origin (Form E) shall be provided to the importer. 
 
(b)  If the changing of destination occurs during transportation to the importing 
Party as specified in the Certificate of Origin (Form E), the exporter shall apply in 
writing, accompanied with the issued Certificate of Origin (Form E), for the new 
issuance of the Certificate of Origin (Form E). 
 
 
 
 
 
  9 
 
 
Rule 21 
 
For the purpose of implementing Rule 8(c) of the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA, 
where transportation is effected through the territory of one or more non-ACFTA 
Parties, the following shall be submitted to the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party: 
 
(a)    A through Bill of Lading issued in the exporting Party; 
 
(b)    A Certificate of Origin (Form E) issued by the relevant Issuing Authorities of 
the exporting Party; 
 
(c)    A copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the product; and 
 
(d)   Supporting documents in evidence that the requirements of Rule 8(c) sub-
paragraphs  (i),(ii)  and  (iii)  of  the  Rules  of  Origin  for  the  ACFTA  are  being 
complied with. 
 
Rule 22 
 
(a)  Products sent from an exporting Party for exhibition in another Party and sold 
during or after the exhibition into a Party shall benefit from the ASEAN-China 
preferential treatment on the condition that the products meet the requirements of 
the Rules of Origin for the ACFTA provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the 
Customs Authority of the importing Party that: 
 
(i)  an exporter has dispatched those products from the territory of the 
exporting Party to another Party where the exhibition is held and 
has exhibited them there; 
 
(ii)  the  exporter  has  sold  the    products  or  transferred  them  to  a 
consignee in the importing Party; and 
 
(iii)  the  products  have  been  consigned  during  the  exhibition  or 
immediately thereafter to the importing Party in the state in which 
they were sent for exhibition. 
 
(b)  For  purposes  of  implementing  the  above  provisions,  the  Certificate  of 
Origin (Form E) must be submitted to the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party. The name and address of the exhibition must be indicated, a certificate 
issued by the Issuing Authorities of the Party where the exhibition took place 
together with supporting documents prescribed in Rule 21(d) may be required. 
 
  10 
(c)  Paragraph (a) shall apply to any trade, agricultural or crafts exhibition, fair 
or similar show or display in shops or business premises with the view to the sale  
of foreign products and where the products remain under customs control during 
the exhibition. 
 
Rule 23 
 
The Customs Authority of the importing Party shall accept a Certificate of Origin 
(Form E) in cases where the sales invoice is issued either by a company located 
in a third country or by an ACFTA exporter for the account of the said company, 
provided that the product meets the requirements of the Rules of Origin for the 
ACFTA.  The third party invoice number should be indicated in Box 10 of the 
Certificate of Origin (Form E), the exporter and consignee must be located in the 
Parties and the copy of the third party invoice shall be attached to the Certificate 
of Origin (Form E) when presenting to the Customs Authority of the importing 
Party. 
 
ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS 
 
Rule 24 
 
(a)  When it is suspected that fraudulent acts in connection with the Certificate 
of Origin (Form E) have been committed, the Government authorities concerned 
shall co-operate in the action to be taken in the territory of the respective Party 
against the persons involved. 
 
(b)  Each Party shall be responsible for providing legal sanctions for fraudulent 
acts related to the Certificate of Origin (Form E) in accordance with its domestic 
laws, regulations and administrative rules. 
 
Rule 25 
 
In  the  case  of  a  dispute  concerning  origin  determination,  classification  or 
products or other matters, the Government authorities concerned in the importing 
and  exporting  Parties  shall  consult  each  other  with  a  view  to  resolving  the 
dispute, and the result shall be reported to the other Parties for information. 
  11