1 
 
Content 
 
Article 1 – Definitions ................................................................... 2 
Article 2 – Scope and Coverage .................................................... 3 
Article 3 – Liaison Office .............................................................. 3 
Article 4 – Consultations ............................................................... 4 
Article 5 – Conciliation or Mediation ............................................ 5 
Article 6 – Appointment of Arbitral Tribunals .............................. 5 
Article 7 – Composition of Arbitral Tribunals .............................. 6 
Article 8 – Functions of Arbitral Tribunals ................................... 7 
Article 9 – Proceedings of Arbitral Tribunals ............................... 7 
Article 10 – Third Parties............................................................... 9 
Article 11 – Suspension and Termination of Proceedings ............ 9 
Article 12 – Implementation .......................................................... 9 
Article 13 – Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or 
Benefits ....................................................................... 10 
Article 14 – Language .................................................................. 11 
Article 15 – Expenses .................................................................. 11 
Article 16 – Amendments ............................................................ 11 
Article 17 – Depository ................................................................ 11 
Article 18 – Entry into Force ....................................................... 11 2 
 
 
Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism of the Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-Operation Between the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the People’s Republic of 
China 
 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, 
the Lao People's Democratic Republic ("Lao PDR"), Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the 
Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(“ASEAN”) and the People’s Republic of China (“China”), (collectively, “the Parties”, or 
individually referring to an ASEAN Member State or to China as a “Party”);  
 
RECALLING  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive  Economic  Co-operation  (“the 
Framework Agreement”) between ASEAN and China signed by the Heads of Government/State 
of ASEAN Member States and China in Phnom Penh on the 4th day of November 2002; 
 
RECALLING paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the Framework Agreement on the establishment of 
appropriate formal dispute settlement procedures and mechanism for the purposes of the 
Framework Agreement within 1 year after the date of entry into force of the Framework 
Agreement; 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
(a)                 All the definitions in the Framework Agreement shall apply to this Agreement; 
(b)                 “days” means calendar days, including weekends and holidays; 
(c)                 “parties to a dispute”, “parties to the dispute”, or “parties concerned”, means the 
complaining party and the party complained against; 
(d)                 “complaining party” means any party or parties that requests for consultations under 
Article 4; and 
(e)                 “party complained against” means any party to which the request for consultations is 
made under Article 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Scope and Coverage  
 
1.  This Agreement shall apply to disputes arising under the Framework Agreement which 
shall also include the Annexes and the contents therein. Hereinafter, any reference to the 
Framework Agreement shall include all future legal instruments agreed pursuant to it unless 
where the context otherwise provides.  
 
2.  Any special or additional rules and procedures on dispute settlement contained in the 
Framework Agreement may be listed administratively by the ASEAN Secretariat as an Appendix 
to this Agreement with the consent of the Parties. 
 
3.   Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement or in the Framework Agreement, or as 
the Parties may otherwise agree, the provisions of this Agreement shall apply with respect to the 
avoidance or settlement of disputes between or among the Parties concerning their respective 
rights and obligations under the Framework Agreement.  
 
4.  The provisions of this Agreement may be invoked in respect of measures affecting the 
observance of the Framework Agreement taken by central, regional or local governments or 
authorities within the territory of a Party.  
 
5.  Subject to paragraph 6, nothing in this Agreement shall prejudice any right of the Parties 
to have recourse to dispute settlement procedures available under any other treaty to which they 
are parties. 
 
6.  Once dispute settlement proceedings have been initiated under this Agreement or under 
any other treaty to which the parties to a dispute are parties concerning a particular right or 
obligation of such parties arising under the Framework Agreement or that other treaty, the forum 
selected by the complaining party shall be used to the exclusion of any other for such dispute.  
 
7.      Paragraphs 5 and 6 above shall not apply where the parties to a dispute expressly agree 
to the use of more than one dispute settlement forum in respect of that particular dispute.  
 
8.  For the purposes of paragraphs 5 to 7, the complaining party shall be deemed to have 
selected a forum when it has requested the establishment of, or referred a dispute to, a dispute 
settlement panel or tribunal in accordance with this Agreement or any other agreement to which 
the parties to a dispute are parties.  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Liaison Office 
 
1.  For the purpose of this Agreement, each Party shall: 
 
(a)                 designate an office that shall be responsible for all liaison affairs referred to in 
this Agreement; 
 
(b)                 be responsible for the operation and costs of its designated office; and  
 
(c)                 notify the other Parties of the location and address of its designated office 
within 30 days after the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into 
force of this Agreement. 4 
 
 
2.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  the  submission  of  any  request  or 
document under this Agreement to the designated office of any Party shall be deemed to be the 
submission of that request or document to that Party. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Consultations 
 
1.  A party complained against shall accord due consideration and adequate opportunity for 
consultations regarding a request for consultations made by a complaining party with respect to 
any matter affecting the implementation or application of the Framework Agreement whereby:  
(a)                 any benefit accruing to the complaining party directly or indirectly under the 
Framework Agreement is being nullified or impaired; or  
(b)                 the attainment of any objective of the Framework Agreement is being impeded, 
 
as a result of the failure of the party complained against to carry out its obligations under the 
Framework Agreement. [1] 
 
2.  Any request for consultations shall be submitted in writing, which shall include the 
specific measures at issue, and the factual and legal basis (including the provisions of the 
Framework Agreement alleged to have been breached and any other relevant provisions) of the 
complaint. The complaining party shall send the request to the party complained against and the 
rest of the Parties. Upon receipt, the party complained against  shall acknowledge receipt of 
such request to the complaining party and the rest of the Parties simultaneously.  
 
3.   If a request for consultations is made, the party complained against shall reply to the 
request within 7 days after the date of its receipt and shall enter into consultations in good faith 
within a period of not more than 30 days after the date of receipt of the request, with a view to 
reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. If the party complained against does not respond within 
the aforesaid 7 days, or does not enter into consultations within the aforesaid 30 days, then the 
complaining party may proceed directly to request for the appointment of an arbitral tribunal 
under Article 6.  
 
4.   The  parties  to  a  dispute  shall  make  every  effort  to  reach  a  mutually  satisfactory 
resolution of any matter through consultations.  To this end, the parties concerned shall: 
 
(a)                 provide sufficient information to enable a full examination of how the measure 
might affect the operation of the Framework Agreement; and 
 
(b)                 treat as confidential any information exchanged in the consultations which the 
other party concerned has designated as confidential. 
 
5.                   Consultations shall be confidential, and are without prejudice to the rights of any Party 
in any further or other proceedings. 
 
6.                   Whenever  a  Party  (other  than  the  parties  to  a  dispute)  considers  that  it  has  a 
substantial interest in consultations being held pursuant to this Article, such Party may notify the 
parties to a dispute in writing of its desire to be joined in the consultations within 10 days after 
the date of receipt of the request for consultations by the party complained against. Such Party 
shall be joined in the consultations provided that the party complained against agrees that the 
claim of substantial interest is well founded. The party complained against shall inform the 
complaining party and the rest of the Parties of its decision prior to the commencement of the 
consultations. If the request to be joined in the consultations is not accepted, the requesting 
Party shall be free to request for separate consultations under this Article. 
 5 
 
7.  In cases of urgency, including those which concern perishable goods, the parties 
concerned shall enter into consultations within a period of no more than 10 days after the date of 
receipt of the request by the party complained against. If the consultations have failed to settle 
the dispute within a period of 20 days after the date of receipt of the request by the party 
complained against, the complaining party may proceed directly to request for the appointment 
of an arbitral tribunal under Article 6.  
 
8.  In cases of urgency, including those which concern perishable goods, the parties to a 
dispute and arbitral tribunals shall make every effort to accelerate the proceedings to the 
greatest extent possible. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Conciliation or Mediation 
 
1.  The parties to a dispute may at any time agree to conciliation or mediation.  They may 
begin at any time and be terminated by the parties concerned at any time. 
 
2.  If the parties to a dispute agree, conciliation or mediation proceedings may continue 
before any person or body as may be agreed by the parties to the dispute while the dispute 
proceeds for resolution before an arbitral tribunal appointed under Article 6. 
 
3.  Proceedings involving conciliation and mediation and positions taken by the parties to a 
dispute during these proceedings, shall be confidential, and without prejudice to the rights of any 
Party in any further or other proceedings. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Appointment of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  If the consultations referred to in Article 4 fail to settle a dispute within 60 days after the 
date of receipt of the request for consultations or within 20 days after such date in cases of 
urgency including those which concern perishable goods, the complaining party may make a 
written request to the party complained against to appoint an arbitral tribunal under this Article. A 
copy of this request shall also be communicated to the rest of the Parties. 
 
2.   A request for the appointment of an arbitral tribunal shall give the reasons for the 
request, including the identification of:  
(a)                 the specific measure at issue; and 
(b)                  the  factual  and  legal  basis  (including  the  provisions  of  the  Framework 
Agreement alleged to have been breached and any other relevant provisions) 
for the complaint  sufficient to present the problem clearly. 
 
3.   Where more than 1 complaining party requests the appointment of an arbitral tribunal 
related to the same matter, a single arbitral tribunal may, whenever feasible, be appointed by the 
parties concerned to examine the matter, taking into account their respective rights.  
 
4.   Where a single arbitral tribunal is appointed under paragraph 3, it shall organize its 
examination and present its findings to all the parties to the dispute in such manner that the 
rights which they would have enjoyed had separate arbitral tribunals examined the same matter 
are in no way impaired. If one of the parties to the dispute so requests, the arbitral tribunal  may 
submit separate reports on the dispute to the parties concerned if the timeframe for writing the 
report so permits. The written submissions by a party to the dispute shall be made available to 
the other parties and each party to the dispute shall have the right to be present when any of the 
other parties to the same dispute presents its views to the arbitral tribunal. 
5.   Where more than 1 arbitral tribunal is appointed under paragraph 3 to examine the same 6 
 
matter, to the greatest extent possible, the same arbitrators shall be appointed by the parties 
concerned  to  serve  on  each  of  the  separate  arbitral  tribunals  and  the  timetable  for  the 
proceedings of each separate arbitral tribunal shall be harmonised.  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Composition of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or the parties to the dispute agree, the 
arbitral tribunal shall have three members. 
 
2.  The complaining party shall appoint an arbitrator to the arbitral tribunal pursuant to 
Article 6 within 20 days of the receipt of the request for appointment of the arbitral tribunal under 
Article 6. The party complained against shall appoint an arbitrator to the arbitral tribunal pursuant 
to Article 6 within 30 days of its receipt of the request for appointment of the arbitral tribunal 
under Article 6. If any party to the dispute fails to appoint an arbitrator within such period, then 
the arbitrator appointed by the other party to the dispute shall act as the sole arbitrator of the 
tribunal. 
 
3.  Once the complaining party and the party complained against have appointed their 
respective arbitrators subject to paragraph 2, the parties concerned shall endeavour to agree on 
an additional arbitrator who shall serve as chair. If the parties concerned are unable to agree on 
the chair of the arbitral tribunal within 30 days after the date on which the last arbitrator has been 
appointed  under  paragraph 2, they shall request the Director-General of the World Trade 
Organization (WTO) to appoint the chair and such appointment shall be accepted by them. In 
the event that the Director-General is a national of one of the parties to the dispute, the Deputy 
Director-General or the officer next in seniority who is not a national of either party to the dispute 
shall be requested to appoint the chair. If one of the parties to the dispute is a non-WTO 
member, the parties to the dispute shall request the President of the International Court of 
Justice to appoint the chair and such appointment shall be accepted by them. In the event that 
the President is a national of one of the parties to the dispute, the Vice President or the officer 
next in seniority who is not a national of either party to the dispute shall be requested to appoint 
the chair. 
 
4.  The date of composition of the arbitral tribunal shall be the date on which the chair is 
appointed under paragraph 3, or the 30th day after the receipt of the request under Article 6 
where only a sole arbitrator of the tribunal is available. 
 
5.  If  an  arbitrator  appointed  under  this  Article  resigns  or  becomes  unable  to  act,  a 
successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the appointment of 
the original arbitrator and the successor shall have all the powers and duties of the original 
arbitrator. The work of the arbitral tribunal shall be suspended during the appointment of the 
successor arbitrator. 
 
6.  Any person appointed as a member or chair of the arbitral tribunal shall have expertise 
or experience in law, international trade, other matters covered by the Framework Agreement or 
the resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements, and shall be chosen 
strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability, sound judgement and independence.  Additionally, 
the chair shall not be a national of any party to a dispute and shall not have his or her usual 
place of residence in the territory of, nor be employed by, any party to a dispute. 
 
7.  Where the original arbitral tribunal is required for a matter as provided in this Agreement 
but cannot hear the matter for any reason, a new tribunal shall be appointed under this Article.  
 7 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Functions of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.   The function of an arbitral tribunal is to make an objective assessment of the dispute 
before it, including an examination of the facts of the case and the applicability of and conformity 
with the Framework Agreement.  Where the arbitral tribunal concludes that a measure is 
inconsistent with a provision of the Framework Agreement, it shall recommend that the party 
complained against bring the measure into conformity with that provision. In addition to its 
recommendations, the arbitral tribunal may suggest ways in which the party complained against 
could implement the recommendations. In its findings and recommendations, the arbitral tribunal 
cannot add to or diminish the rights and obligations provided in the Framework Agreement. 
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal shall have the following terms of reference unless the parties to a 
dispute agree otherwise within 20 days from its composition: 
 
“To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions in the Framework Agreement, the 
matter referred to this arbitral tribunal by (name of party)… and to make findings, 
determinations and recommendations provided for in the Framework Agreement.” 
 
The arbitral tribunal shall address the relevant provisions in the Framework Agreement cited by 
the parties to a dispute. 
 
3.   The arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Article 6 above: 
(a)                 shall consult regularly with the parties to the dispute and provide adequate 
opportunities for the development of  a mutually satisfactory resolution; 
(b)                 shall make its decision in accordance with the Framework Agreement and the 
rules of international law applicable between the parties to the dispute; and 
(c)                 shall set out, in its decision, its findings of law and fact, together with the 
reasons therefore. 
 
4.    The decision of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding on the parties to the 
dispute. 
 
5.  An arbitral tribunal shall take its decision by consensus; provided that where an arbitral 
tribunal is unable to reach consensus, it may take its decision by majority opinion. 
 
6.    The arbitral tribunal shall, in consultation with the parties to the dispute and apart from 
the matters set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 of Article 6   and Article 9, regulate its own procedures 
in relation to the rights of parties to be heard and its deliberations. 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Proceedings of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  An arbitral tribunal shall meet in closed session.  The parties to the dispute shall be 
present at the meetings only when invited by the arbitral tribunal to appear before it. 
 
2.    The venue for the substantive meetings of the arbitral tribunal shall be decided by 
mutual agreement between the parties to the dispute, failing which the first substantive meeting 
shall be held in the capital of the party complained against, with the second substantive meeting 
to be held in the capital of the complaining party. 
 
3.  After consulting the parties to the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall, as soon as practical 
and possible within 15 days after the composition of the arbitral tribunal, fix the timetable for the 8 
 
arbitral process. In determining the timetable for the arbitral process, the arbitral tribunal shall 
provide sufficient time for the parties to the dispute to prepare their respective submissions. The 
arbitral tribunal should set precise deadlines for written submissions by the parties to the dispute 
and they shall respect these deadlines. 
 
4.  The deliberations of an arbitral tribunal and the documents submitted to it shall be kept 
confidential.  Nothing in this Article shall preclude a party to a dispute from disclosing statements 
of its own positions or its submissions to the public; a party to a dispute shall treat as confidential 
information submitted by any of the other parties concerned to the arbitral tribunal which the 
submitting  party  has  designated  as  confidential.    Where  a  party  to  a  dispute  submits  a 
confidential version of its written submissions to the arbitral tribunal, it shall also, upon request of 
any of the other parties concerned, provide a non-confidential summary of the information 
contained in its submissions that could be disclosed to the public. 
 
5.  The rules and procedures pertaining to the proceedings before the arbitral tribunal as set 
out in Annex 1 of this Agreement shall apply unless the arbitral tribunal decides otherwise after 
consulting the parties to the dispute.  
 
6.  The report of the arbitral tribunal shall be drafted without the presence of the parties to 
the dispute in the light of the information provided and the statements made. The deliberations of 
the tribunal shall be confidential. Opinions expressed in the report of the arbitral tribunal by an 
individual arbitrator shall be anonymous. 
 
7.  Following the consideration of submissions, oral arguments and any information before 
it, the arbitral tribunal shall issue a draft report to the parties concerned, including both a 
descriptive section relating to the facts of the dispute and the arguments of the parties to the 
dispute and the arbitral tribunal’s findings and conclusions. The arbitral tribunal shall accord 
adequate opportunity to the parties concerned to review the entirety of its draft report prior to its 
finalization and shall include a discussion of any comments by the parties concerned in its final 
report. 
 
8.   The arbitral tribunal shall release to the parties to the dispute its final report within 120 
days from the date of its composition.  In cases of urgency, including those relating to perishable 
goods, the arbitral tribunal shall aim to issue its report to the parties to the dispute within 60 days 
from the date of its composition. When the arbitral tribunal considers that it cannot release its 
final report within 120 days, or within 60 days in cases of urgency, it shall inform the parties 
concerned in writing of the reasons for the delay together with an estimate of the period within 
which it will issue its report.  In no case should the period from the composition of an arbitral 
tribunal to the release of the report to parties to the dispute exceed 180 days. 
 
9.  The final report of the arbitral tribunal shall become a public document within 10 days 
after its release to the parties concerned. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
ARTICLE 10  
Third Parties 
 
1.  Any Party having a substantial interest in a dispute before an arbitral tribunal and having 
notified  its  interest  in  writing  to  the  parties  to  such  a  dispute  and  the  remaining  Parties 
(hereinafter referred to as a “third party”), shall have an opportunity to make written submissions 
to the tribunal. These submissions shall also be given to the parties to a dispute and may be 
reflected in the report of the arbitral tribunal.  
 
2.  Third parties shall receive the submissions of the parties to a dispute to the first meeting 
of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
3.  If a third party considers that a measure already the subject of an arbitral tribunal 
proceedings nullifies or impairs benefits accruing to it under the Framework Agreement, such 
Party may have recourse to normal dispute settlement procedures under this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.  Where the parties to the dispute agree, the arbitral tribunal may suspend its work at any 
time for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement.   Upon the request 
of any party to a dispute, the arbitral proceeding shall be resumed after such suspension. If the 
work of the arbitral tribunal has been suspended for more than 12 months, the authority for 
establishment of the arbitral tribunal shall lapse unless the parties concerned agree otherwise. 
 
2.   The parties to a dispute may agree to terminate the proceedings of an arbitral tribunal 
established under this Agreement before the release of the final report to them, in the event that 
a mutually satisfactory solution to the dispute has been found.  
 
3.   Before the arbitral tribunal makes its decision, it may at any stage of the proceedings 
propose to the parties to the dispute that the dispute be settled amicably. 
 
ARTICLE 12 
Implementation 
 
1.  The party complained against shall inform the complaining party of its intention in 
respect of implementation of the recommendations and rulings of the arbitral tribunal.  
 
2.  If it is impracticable to comply immediately with the recommendations and rulings of the 
arbitral tribunal, the party complained against shall have a reasonable period of time in which to 
do so. The reasonable period of time shall be mutually determined by the parties to the dispute 
or, where the parties concerned fail to agree on the reasonable period of time within 30 days of 
the release of the arbitral tribunal’s final report, any of the parties to the dispute may refer the 
matter to the original arbitral tribunal wherever possible which shall, following consultations with 
the parties concerned, determine the reasonable period of time within 30 days after the date of 
the referral of the matter to it. When the arbitral tribunal considers that it cannot provide its report 
within this timeframe, it shall inform the parties concerned in writing of the reasons for the delay 
and shall submit its report no later than 45 days after the date of the referral of the matter to it.  
 
3.  Where there is disagreement as to the existence or consistency with the Framework 
Agreement of measures taken within the reasonable period of time referred to in paragraph 2 to 
comply with the recommendations of the arbitral tribunal, such dispute shall be referred to the 
original arbitral tribunal, wherever possible.  The arbitral tribunal shall provide its report to the 
parties to the dispute within 60 days after the date of the referral of the matter to it.  When the 
arbitral tribunal considers that it cannot provide its report within this timeframe, it shall inform the 
parties concerned in writing of the reasons for the delay and shall submit its report no later than 
75 days after the date of the referral of the matter to it. 
 10 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or Benefits 
 
1.                   Compensation and the suspension of concessions or benefits are temporary measures 
available in the event that the recommendations and rulings are not implemented within a 
reasonable period of time. However, neither compensation nor the suspension of concessions or 
benefits  is  preferred  to  full  implementation  of  a  recommendation  to  bring  a  measure  into 
conformity with the Framework Agreement. Compensation is voluntary and, if granted, shall be 
consistent with the Framework Agreement. 
 
2.                   If the party complained against fails to bring the measure found to be inconsistent with 
the Framework Agreement into compliance with the recommendations of the arbitral tribunal 
within the reasonable period of time determined pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 12, that party 
shall, if so requested, enter into negotiations with the complaining party with a view to reaching a 
mutually satisfactory agreement on any necessary compensatory adjustment.  
 
3.                   If no mutually satisfactory agreement on compensation has been reached within 20 
days after the request of the complaining party to enter into negotiations on compensatory 
adjustment, the complaining party may request the original arbitral tribunal to determine the 
appropriate level of any suspension of concessions or benefits conferred on the party which has 
failed  to  bring  the  measure  found  to  be  inconsistent  with  the  Framework  Agreement  into 
compliance with the recommendations of the arbitral tribunal. The arbitral tribunal shall provide 
its report to the parties to the dispute within 30 days after the date of the referral of the matter to 
it. When the arbitral tribunal considers that it cannot provide its report within this timeframe, it 
shall inform the parties concerned in writing of the reasons for the delay and shall submit its 
report no later than 45 days after the date of the referral of the matter to it. Concessions or 
benefits shall not be suspended during the course of the arbitral proceedings.  
 
4.                   Any suspension of concessions or benefits shall be restricted to those accruing under 
the Framework Agreement to the party which has failed to bring the measure found to be 
inconsistent with the Framework Agreement into compliance with the recommendations of the 
arbitral tribunal. That party and the rest of the Parties shall be informed of the commencement 
and details of any such suspension. 
 
5.   In considering what concessions or benefits to suspend: 
 
(a)                 the complaining party should first seek to suspend concessions or benefits in 
the same sector or sectors as that affected by the measure or other matter that 
the arbitral tribunal has found to be inconsistent with the Framework Agreement 
or to have caused nullification or impairment; and 
 
(b)                 the complaining party may suspend concessions or benefits in other sectors if 
it considers that it is not practicable or effective to suspend concessions or 
benefits in the same sector. 
 
6.   The suspension of concessions or benefits shall be temporary and shall only be applied 
until such time as the measure found to be inconsistent with the Framework Agreement has 
been removed, or the Party that must implement the arbitral tribunal’s recommendations has 
done so, or a mutually satisfactory solution is reached. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Language 
 
1.  All proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall be conducted in the English language. 
 
2.  Any document submitted for use in any proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall be 
in the English language. If any original document is not in the English language, a party 
submitting it for use in the proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall provide an English 
translation of that document.  
 
ARTICLE 15 
Expenses  
 
1.  Each party to a dispute shall bear the costs of its appointed arbitrator and its own 
expenses and legal costs.   
 
2.  The costs of the chair of the arbitral tribunal and other expenses associated with the 
conduct of its proceedings shall be borne in equal parts by the parties to a dispute. 
  
  
 
ARTICLE 16 
Amendments 
  
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through amendments mutually agreed upon 
in writing by the Parties. 
  
ARTICLE 17 
Depository 
  
For ASEAN, this Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall 
promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member State. 
  
ARTICLE 18 
Entry Into Force 
 
  
1.  This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2005.             
 
2.  The Parties undertake to complete their internal procedures for the entry into force of 
this Agreement prior to 1 January 2005. 
 
3.  Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this 
Agreement by 1 January 2005, the rights and obligations of that Party under this 
Agreement shall commence on the date of the completion of such internal procedures. 
 
4.  A Party shall upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this 
Agreement notify all the other Parties in writing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by their respective 
Governments, have signed this Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism of the Framework 
Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-operation between the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations and the People’s Republic of China. 
 
 
DONE at Vientiane, Lao PDR this Twenty Ninth Day of November in the Year Two Thousand 
and Four, in duplicate copies in the English Language. 
 
   
 
 
 [1] Non-violation disputes are not permitted under this Agreement. 
 