   
 
ANNEX 1 
 
RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE ARBITRAL PROCEEDINGS 
 
1.  Before the first substantive meeting of the arbitral tribunal with the parties to the dispute, the 
parties concerned shall transmit to the arbitral tribunal written submissions in which they present the 
facts of their case and their arguments. 
 
2.  The complaining party shall submit its first submission in advance of the first submission of 
the party complained against unless the arbitral tribunal decides, in fixing the timetable referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Article 9 and after consultations with the parties to the dispute, that the parties 
concerned  should  submit  their  first  submissions  simultaneously.  When  there  are  sequential 
arrangements for the submission of first submissions, the arbitral tribunal shall establish a firm time-
period  for  receipt  of  the  submission  of  the  party  complained  against.  Any  subsequent  written 
submissions shall be submitted simultaneously. 
 
3.  At its first substantive meeting with the parties to the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall ask the 
complaining party to present its submissions.  Subsequently, and still at the same meeting, the party 
complained against shall be asked to present its submissions. 
 
4.  Formal rebuttals shall be made at the second substantive meeting of the arbitral tribunal.  The 
party complained against shall have the right to present its submission first, and shall be followed by 
the complaining party.  The parties to the dispute shall submit, prior to the meeting, written rebuttals to 
the arbitral tribunal. 
 
5.  The arbitral tribunal may at any time put questions to the parties to the dispute and ask them 
for explanations either in the course of a meeting with the parties concerned or in writing. 
 
6.  The parties to the dispute shall make available to the arbitral tribunal a written version of their 
oral statements. 
 
7.  In the interests of full transparency, the presentations, rebuttals and statements referred to in 
paragraphs 2 to 6 shall be made in the presence of the parties to the dispute.  Moreover, each party’s 
written submissions, including any comments on the draft report, written versions of oral statements 
and responses to questions put by the arbitral tribunal, shall be made available to the other party.  
There shall be no ex parte communications with the arbitral tribunal concerning matters under its 
consideration. 
 
8.     The arbitral tribunal may consult experts to obtain their opinion on certain aspects of 
the matter. With respect to factual issues concerning a scientific or other technical matter raised by a 
party to the dispute, the arbitral tribunal may request advisory reports in writing from an expert or 
experts. The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party or parties to the dispute, or on its own 
volition, select, in consultation with the parties to the dispute, scientific or technical experts who shall 
assist the arbitral tribunal throughout its proceedings but who shall not have the right to vote in 
respect of any decision to be made by the arbitral tribunal. 