 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT ON INVESTMENT OF THE FRAMEWORK 
AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC CO-
OPERATION BETWEEN THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA AND THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN 
NATIONS  
 
 
The Government of the People’s Republic of China (“China”) 
and the Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of 
Cambodia  (“Cambodia”), the Republic of Indonesia 
(“Indonesia”), the Lao People ’s Democratic Republic  ( “Lao 
PDR”), Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar  ( “Myanmar”), the 
Republic of the Philippines  ( “Philippines”), the Republic of 
Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand  ( “Thailand”) and the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam ( “Viet Nam”), Member States 
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (collectively, 
“ASEAN” or  “ASEAN Member States ”, or individually, 
“ASEAN Member State”); 
 
RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic Co-operation  ( “the Framework Agreement ”) 
between China and ASEAN (collectively,  “the Parties ”, or 
individually referring to China or to an ASEAN Member State 
as a  “Party”) signed by the Heads of Government/State of 
China and ASEAN Member States in Phnom Penh, 
Cambodia on the 4th day of November 2002; 
 
RECALLING further Article 5 and Article 8 of the Framework 
Agreement, where in order to establish a China-ASEAN Free 
Trade Area and to promote investments and create a liberal, 
facilitative, transparent and competitive investment regime, 
the Parties agreed to negotiate and conclude as 
expeditiously as possible an investment agreement in order 
to progressively liberalise the investment regime, strengthen 
co-operation in investment, facilitate investment and improve 
transparency of investment rules and regulations, and 
provide for the protection of investments; 
 
NOTING that the Framework Agreement recognised the 
different stages and pace of development among the Parties 
and the need for special and differential treatment and 
flexibility for the newer ASEAN Member States of Cambodia, 
Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam; 
 
REAFFIRMING the Parties ’ commitment to establish the 
China-ASEAN Free Trade Area within the specified 
timeframes, while allowing flexibility to the Parties to address 
their sensitive areas as provided in the Framework 
Agreement, in the realisation of the sustainable economic 
growth and development goals on the basis of equality and 
mutual benefits so as to achieve a win-win outcome; 
 
REAFFIRMING further the rights, obligations and 
undertakings of each Party under the World Trade 
Organization  (“WTO”), and other multilateral, regional and 
bilateral agreements and arrangements, 
 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
Article 1  
Definitions 
 
1.  For the purpose of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  “AEM” means ASEAN Economic Ministers; 
 
(b)  “freely usable currency ” means any currency 
designated as such by the International Monetary 
Fund (“IMF”) under its Articles of Agreement and 
any amendments thereto; 
 
(c)  “GATS” means the General Agreement on Trade 
in Services in Annex 1B to the WTO Agreement;  
 
2 
 
(d)  “investment” means every kind of asset invested 
by the investors of a Party in accordance with the 
relevant laws, regulations and policies 1  of 
another Party in the territory of the latter including, 
but not limited to, the following: 
 
(i)  movable and immovable property and any 
other property rights such as mortgages, 
liens or pledges; 
  
(ii)  shares, stocks and debentures of juridical 
persons or interests in the property of such 
juridical persons; 
 
(iii)  intellectual property rights, including rights 
with respect to copyrights, patents and 
utility models, industrial designs, 
trademarks and service marks, 
geographical indications, layout designs of 
integrated circuits, trade names, trade 
secrets, technical processes, know-how 
and goodwill;  
 
(iv)  business concessions2 conferred by law, or 
under contract, including concessions to 
search for, cultivate, extract, or exploit 
natural resources; and 
 
(v)  claims to money or to any performance 
having financial value. 
 
                                                        
1  For greater certainty, policies shall refer to those affecting investment that are 
endorsed and announced by the Government of a Party, and made publicly 
available in a written form. 
 
2  Business concessions include contractual rights such as those under turnkey, 
construction or management contracts, production or revenue sharing contracts, 
concessions, or other similar contracts and can include investment funds for 
projects such as Build-Operate and Transfer (BOT) and Build-Operate and Own 
(BOO) schemes.  
3 
 
For the purpose of the definition of investment in 
this Sub-paragraph, returns that are invested 
should be treated as investments and any 
alteration of the form in which assets are 
invested or reinvested shall not affect their 
character as investments; 
 
(e)  “investor of a Party” means a natural person of a 
Party or a juridical person of a Party that is 
making 3  or has made an investment in the 
territories of the other Parties; 
 
(f)  “juridical person of a Party ” means any legal 
entity duly constituted or otherwise organised 
under the applicable law of a Party, whether for 
profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned 
or governmentally-owned, and engaged in 
substantive business operations in the territory of 
that Party, including any corporation, trust, 
partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship or 
association; 
 
(g)  “measure” means any law, regulation, rule, 
procedure, or decision or administrative action of 
general application, affecting investors and/or 
investments, taken by a Party including its: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments and 
authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
powers delegated by central, regional or 
local governments and authorities; 
 
(h)  “MOFCOM” means Ministry of Commerce of the 
People’s Republic of China; 
                                                        
3  For greater certainty, the phrase  “is making” shall refer only to Article 5 (Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment) and Article 10 (Transfers and Repatriation of Profits). 
4 
 
 
(i)  “natural person of a Party ” means any natural 
person possessing the nationality or citizenship 
of, or right of permanent residence in the Party in 
accordance with its laws and regulations;4 
 
(j)  “returns” mean amounts yielded by or derived 
from an investment particularly, though not 
exclusively, profits, interests, capital gains, 
dividends, royalties or fees; 
 
(k)  “SEOM” means ASEAN Senior Economic 
Officials Meetings; 
 
(l)  “WTO Agreement ” means the Marrakesh 
Agreement Establishing the World Trade 
Organization, done at Marrakesh, Morocco on 
the 15th of April 1994, as may be amended. 
 
2.  The definitions of each of the above terms shall apply 
unless the context otherwise requires, or where a Party 
has specifically defined any of the above terms for 
application to its commitments or reservations. 
                                                        
4  In the case of Indonesia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand and Viet Nam, which do 
not grant rights of permanent residence to foreigners or do not accord its 
permanent residents the same benefits as its nationals or citizens, they shall not 
be legally obliged to accord the benefits of this Agreement to permanent 
residents of any of the other Parties, or claim the aforesaid benefits for its 
permanent residents, if applicable, from any of the other Parties. 
 
In the case of China, until such time when China enacts its domestic law on the 
treatment of permanent residents of foreign countries, the permanent residents of 
the other Parties shall, provided there is reciprocity from those other Parties, be 
treated no less favourably than those of third countries, in like circumstances, if 
such permanent residents waive their rights that may be derived from provisions 
of dispute resolution under any other investment agreements or arrangements 
concluded between China and any third country. 
 
5 
 
3.  In this Agreement, all words used in the singular shall 
include the plural, and all words in the plural shall 
include the singular, unless the context otherwise 
requires. 
 
Article 2  
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Agreement are to promote investment 
flows and to create a liberal, facilitative, transparent and 
competitive investment regime in China and ASEAN through 
the following: 
 
(a)  progressively liberalising the investment regimes 
of China and ASEAN; 
 
(b)  creating favourable conditions for the investment 
by the investor of a Party in the territory of 
another Party; 
 
(c)  promoting the cooperation between a Party and 
the investor who has investment in the territory of 
that Party on a mutually beneficial basis; 
 
(d)  encouraging and promoting the flow of 
investment among the Parties and cooperation 
among the Parties on investment-related matters; 
 
(e)  improving the transparency of investment rules 
conducive to increased investment flows among 
the Parties; and 
 
(f)  providing for the protection of investments in 
China and ASEAN. 
 
6 
 
Article 3  
Scope of Application 
 
1.   This Agreement shall apply to measures adopted or 
maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of another Party; and 
  
(b)  investments of investors of another Party in its 
territory, which shall be: 
 
(i)  in respect of China, the entire customs 
territory according to the WTO definition at 
the time of her accession to the WTO on 
the 11 th day of December 2001. For this 
purpose, for China,  “territory” in this 
Agreement refers to the customs territory of 
China; and 
 
(ii)  in respect of ASEAN Member States, their 
respective territories. 
 
2.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, this 
Agreement shall apply to all investments made by 
investors of a Party in the territory of another Party, 
whether made before or after the entry into force of this 
Agreement. For greater certainty, the provisions of this 
Agreement do not bind any Party in relation to any act 
or fact that took place or any situation that ceased to 
exist before the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  In the case of Thailand, this Agreement shall apply only 
in cases where the investment by an investor of 
another Party in the territory of Thailand has been 
admitted, and specifically approved in writing for 
7 
 
protection by its competent authorities, 5 in accordance 
with its domestic laws, regulations and policies. 
 
4.  This Agreement shall not apply to:  
 
(a)  any taxation measure. This Sub-paragraph shall 
not undermine the Parties ’ rights and obligations 
with respect to taxation measures: 
 
(i)  where corresponding rights or obligations 
are also granted or imposed under the 
WTO Agreement; 
 
(ii)  under Article 8 (Expropriation) and Article 
10 (Transfers and Repatriation of Profits); 
 
(iii)  under Article 14 (Investment Disputes 
between a Party and an Investor), only 
when the dispute arises from Article 8 
(Expropriation); and 
 
(iv)  under any tax convention relating to the 
avoidance of double taxation; 
 
(b)  laws, regulations, policies or procedures of 
general application governing the procurement 
by government agencies of goods and services 
purchased for governmental purposes 
(government procurement) and not with a view to 
commercial resale or with a view to use in the 
production of goods or the supply of services for 
commercial sale; 
 
(c)  subsidies or grants provided by a Party or to any 
conditions attached to the receipt or the 
continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, 
                                                        
5   The name and contact details of the competent authorities responsible for granting such 
approval shall be informed to the other Parties through the ASEAN Secretariat. 
8 
 
whether or not such subsidies or grants are 
offered exclusively to domestic investors and 
investments;  
 
(d)  services supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority by the relevant body or authority of a 
Party. For the purposes of this Agreement, a 
service supplied in the exercise of governmental 
authority means any service which is supplied 
neither on a commercial basis nor in competition 
with one or more service suppliers; and 
 
(e)  measures adopted or maintained by a Party 
affecting trade in services. 
 
5.   Notwithstanding Sub-paragraph 4(e), Article 7 
(Treatment of Investment), Article 8 (Expropriation), 
Article 9 (Compensation for Losses), Article 10 
(Transfers and Repatriation of Profits), Article 12 
(Subrogation) and Article 14 (Investment Disputes 
between a Party and an Investor) shall apply,  mutatis 
mutandis, to any measure affecting the supply of a 
service by a service supplier of a Party through 
commercial presence in the territory of another Party, 
but only to the extent that they relate to an investment 
and an obligation under this Agreement, regardless of 
whether or not such a service sector is scheduled in 
the Party’s Schedule of Specific Commitments made 
under the Agreement on Trade in Services of the 
Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic 
Co-operation between the People ’s Republic of China 
and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations signed 
in Cebu, Philippines on the 14th day of January 2007.  
 
 
9 
 
Article 4  
National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall, in its territory, accord to investors of 
another Party and their investments treatment no less 
favourable than it accords, in like circumstances, to its own 
investors and their investments with respect to management, 
conduct, operation, maintenance, use, sale, liquidation, or 
other forms of disposal of such investments. 
 
Article 5  
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of another Party 
and their investments treatment no less favourable 
than that it accords, in like circumstances, to investors 
of any other Party or third country and/or their 
respective investments with respect to admission, 
establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, 
conduct, operation, maintenance, use, liquidation, sale, 
and other forms of disposal of investments. 
 
2． Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, if a Party accords more 
favourable treatment to investors of another Party or 
third country and their investments by virtue of any 
future agreements or arrangements to which that Party 
is a party, it shall not be obliged to accord such 
treatment to investors of another Party and their 
investments. However, upon request from another 
Party, it shall accord adequate opportunity to negotiate 
the benefits granted therein. 
 
3.   The treatment, as set forth in Paragraph 1 and 
Paragraph 2, shall not include: 
 
(a)  any preferential treatment accorded to investors 
and their investments under any existing bilateral, 
regional or international agreements, or any 
10 
 
forms of economic or regional cooperation with 
any non-Party; and  
 
(b)  any existing or future preferential treatment 
accorded to investors and their investments in 
any agreement or arrangement between or 
among ASEAN Member States or between any 
Party and its separate customs territories. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, the obligation in this Article does 
not encompass a requirement for a Party to extend to 
investors of another Party dispute resolution 
procedures other than those set out in this Agreement. 
 
Article 6 
Non-Conforming Measures 
 
1.   Article 4 (National Treatment) and Article 5 (Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment) shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any existing or new non-conforming measures 
maintained or adopted within its territory; 
 
(b)  the continuation or amendment of any non-
conforming measures referred to in Sub-
paragraph (a). 
 
2.  The Parties will endeavour to progressively remove the 
non-conforming measures. 
 
3.   The Parties shall enter into discussions pursuant to 
Article 24 (Review) with a view to furthering the 
objectives in Article 2(a) and Article 2(e). The Parties 
will endeavour to achieve the objectives to be overseen 
by the institution under Article 22 (Institutional 
Arrangement). 
 
11 
 
Article 7  
Treatment of Investment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investments of investors of 
another Party fair and equitable treatment and full 
protection and security. 
 
2.  For greater certainty:  
 
(a)  fair and equitable treatment refers to the 
obligation of each Party not to deny justice in any 
legal or administrative proceedings; and 
 
(b)  full protection and security requires each Party to 
take such measures as may be reasonably 
necessary to ensure the protection and security 
of the investment of investors of another Party. 
 
3.  A determination that there has been a breach of 
another provision of this Agreement, or of a separate 
international agreement, shall not establish that there 
has been a breach of this Article. 
 
Article 8  
Expropriation 
 
1.   A Party shall not expropriate, nationalise or take other 
similar measures (“expropriation”) against investments 
of investors of another Party, unless the following 
conditions are met: 
 
(a)  for a public purpose; 
 
(b)  in accordance with applicable domestic laws, 
including legal procedures; 
 
(c)  carried out in a non-discriminatory manner; and 
 
12 
 
(d)  on payment of compensation in accordance with 
Paragraph 2. 
 
2.   Such compensation shall amount to the fair market 
value of the expropriated investment at the time when 
expropriation was publicly announced or when 
expropriation occurred, whichever is earlier, and it shall 
be freely transferable in freely usable currencies from 
the host country. The fair market value shall not reflect 
any change in market value occurring because the 
expropriation had become publicly known earlier.  
 
3.  The compensation shall be settled and paid without 
unreasonable delay. In the event of delay, the 
compensation shall include interest at the prevailing 
commercial interest rate from the date of expropriation 
until the date of payment 6 . The compensation, 
including any accrued interest, shall be payable either 
in the currency in which the investment was originally 
made or, if requested by the investor, in a freely usable 
currency. 
 
4.   Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, Paragraph 2 and 
Paragraph 3, any measure of expropriation relating to 
land shall be as defined in the expropriating Party ’s 
existing domestic laws and regulations and any 
amendments thereto, and shall be for the purposes of 
and upon payment of compensation in accordance with 
the aforesaid laws and regulations. 
 
5.   Where a Party expropriates the assets of a juridical 
person which is incorporated or constituted under its 
laws and regulations, and in which investors of another 
                                                        
6  For Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam, in the event of delay, 
the rate and payment of interest of compensation for expropriation of investments 
of investors of another Party shall be determined in accordance with their laws, 
regulations and policies provided that such laws, regulations and policies are 
applied on a non-discriminatory basis to investments of investors of another Party 
or a non-Party. 
13 
 
Party own shares, it shall apply the provisions of the 
preceding Paragraphs so as to ensure that 
compensation is paid to such investors to the extent of 
their interest in the assets expropriated. 
 
6.   This Article shall not apply to the issuance of 
compulsory licences granted to intellectual property 
rights in accordance with the Agreement on Trade-
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights in 
Annex 1C to the WTO Agreement. 
 
Article 9  
Compensation for Losses 
 
Investors of a Party whose investments in the territory of 
another Party suffer losses owing to war or other armed 
conflict, revolution, a state of emergency, revolt, insurrection 
or riot in the territory of the latter Party shall be accorded by 
the latter Party treatment, as regard restitution, 
indemnification, compensation or other settlement, no less 
favourable than that which the latter Party accords, in like 
circumstances, to investors of any third country or its own 
nationals, whichever is more favourable. 
 
Article 10  
Transfers and Repatriation of Profits 
 
1.   Each Party shall allow all transfers in respect of 
investments in its territory of an investor of any other 
Party to be made in any freely usable currency at the 
prevailing market rate of exchange on the date of 
transfer, and allow such transfers to be freely 
transferred into and out of its territory without delay. 
Such transfers shall include: 
 
14 
 
(a)  the initial capital, plus any additional capital used 
to maintain or expand the investments7; 
 
(b)  net profits, capital gains, dividends, royalties, 
licence fees, technical assistance and technical 
and management fees, interest and other current 
income accruing from any investment of the 
investors of any other Party; 
 
(c)  proceeds from the total or partial sale or 
liquidation of any investment made by investors 
of any other Party; 
 
(d)  funds in repayment of borrowings or loans given 
by investors of a Party to the investors of any 
other Party which the respective Parties have 
recognised as investment;  
 
(e)  net earnings and other compensations of natural 
persons of any other Party, who are employed 
and allowed to work in connection with an 
investment in its territory; 
 
(f)  payments made under a contract entered into by 
the investors of any other Party, or their 
investments including payments made pursuant 
to a loan transaction; and 
 
(g)  payments made pursuant to Article 8 
(Expropriation) and Article 9 (Compensation for 
Losses).  
 
 
 
                                                        
7  The Parties understand that the reference to  “the initial capital, plus any 
additional capital used to maintain or expand the investments ” only applies 
following the successful completion of the approval procedures for inward 
investment.  
15 
 
2.  Each Party undertakes to accord to the transfer 
referred to in Paragraph 1, treatment as favourable as 
that accorded, in like circumstances, to the transfer 
originating from investments made by investors of any 
other Party or third country. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2, a Party 
may prevent or delay a transfer through the equitable, 
non-discriminatory and good faith application of its laws 
and regulations relating to: 
 
(a)  bankruptcy, loss of ability or capacity to make 
payments, or protection of the right of creditors; 
 
(b)  non-fulfilment of the host Party ’s transfer 
requirements in respect of trading or dealing in 
securities, futures, options or derivatives; 
 
(c)  non-fulfilment of tax obligations; 
 
(d)  criminal or penal offences and the recovery of the 
proceeds of crime; 
 
(e)  social security, public retirement or compulsory 
saving schemes; 
 
(f)  compliance with judgements in judicial or 
administrative proceedings; 
 
(g)  workers’ retrenchment benefits in relation to 
labour compensation relating to, amongst others, 
foreign investment projects that are closed down; 
and 
 
(h)  financial reporting or record keeping of transfers 
when necessary to assist law enforcement or 
financial regulatory authorities.  
 
16 
 
4.   For greater certainty, the transfers referred to in the 
preceding Paragraphs shall comply with relevant 
formalities stipulated by the host Party ’s domestic laws 
and regulations relating to exchange administration, 
insofar as such laws and regulations are not to be used 
as a means of avoiding a Party ’s obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
5.   Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and 
obligations of the Parties as members of the IMF under 
the Articles of Agreement of the IMF, including the use 
of exchange actions which are in conformity with the 
Articles of Agreement of the IMF, provided that a Party 
shall not impose restrictions on any capital transactions 
inconsistently with its specific commitments under this 
Agreement regarding such transactions, except: 
 
(a)  under Article 11 (Measures to Safeguard the 
Balance of Payments); or 
 
(b)  at the request of the IMF; or 
 
(c)  where, in exceptional circumstances, movements 
of capital cause, or threaten to cause, serious 
economic or financial disturbance in the Party 
concerned, provided such restrictions do not 
affect the rights and obligations of the Parties as 
members of the WTO under Paragraph 1 of  
Article XI of GATS, and the measures are taken 
in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 11 of 
this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 11 
Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
1.  In the event of serious balance of payments and 
external financial difficulties or threat thereof, a Party 
may adopt or maintain restrictions on investments, 
including payments or transfers related to such 
17 
 
investments. It is recognised that particular pressures 
on the balance of payments of a Party in the process of 
economic development may necessitate the use of 
restrictions to ensure,  inter alia, the maintenance of a 
level of financial reserves adequate for the 
implementation of its programme of economic 
development.  
 
2.   The restrictions referred to in Paragraph 1 shall: 
 
(a)  be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of 
the IMF; 
 
(b)  not discriminate among the Parties;  
 
(c)  avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, 
economic and financial interests of any other 
Party; 
 
(d)  not exceed those necessary to deal with the 
circumstances described in Paragraph 1; 
 
(e)  be temporary and be phased out progressively 
as the situation specified in Paragraph 1 
improves; and 
 
(f)  be applied such that any other Party is treated no 
less favourably than any third country. 
 
3.   Any restrictions adopted or maintained by a Party 
under Paragraph 1 or any changes therein, shall be 
promptly notified to the other Parties. 
 
Article 12  
Subrogation 
 
1.   In the event that any Party or any agency, institution, 
statutory body or corporation designated by it, as a 
result of an indemnity it has given in respect of an 
18 
 
investment or any part thereof, makes payment to its 
own investors in respect of any of their claims under 
this Agreement, the other Parties concerned shall 
acknowledge that the former Party or any agency, 
institution, statutory body or corporation designated by 
it is entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise the 
rights and assert the claims of its own investors. The 
subrogated rights or claims shall not be greater than 
the original rights or claims of the said investor. 
 
2.   Where a Party or any agency, institution, statutory 
body or corporation designated by it has made a 
payment to an investor of that Party and has taken 
over the rights and claims of the investor, that investor 
shall not, unless authorised to act on behalf of the 
Party or the agency, institution, statutory body or 
corporation designated by it making the payment, 
pursue those rights and claims against the other Party. 
 
Article 13  
Dispute Between Parties 
 
The provisions of the Agreement on Dispute Settlement 
Mechanism of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive 
Economic Co-operation between the People ’s Republic of 
China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
signed in Vientiane, Lao PDR on the 29 th day of November 
2004 shall apply to the settlement of disputes between or 
amongst the Parties under this Agreement. 
 
Article 14 
 Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor 
 
1.  This Article shall apply to investment disputes between 
a Party and an investor of another Party concerning an 
alleged breach of an obligation of the former Party 
under Article 4 (National Treatment), Article 5 (Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment), Article 7 (Treatment of 
Investment), Article 8 (Expropriation), Article 9 
19 
 
(Compensation for Losses) and Article 10 (Transfers 
and Repatriation of Profits), which causes loss or 
damage to the investor in relation to its investment with 
respect to the management, conduct, operation, or sale 
or other disposition of an investment. 
 
2.  This Article shall not apply: 
 
(a)  to investment disputes arising out of events 
which occurred, or to investment disputes which 
had been settled, or   which were already under 
judicial or arbitral process, prior to the entry into 
force of this Agreement; 
 
(b)  in cases where the disputing investor holds the 
nationality or citizenship of the disputing Party. 
 
3.  The parties to the dispute shall, as far as possible, 
resolve the dispute through consultations. 
 
4.   Where the dispute cannot be resolved as provided for 
under Paragraph 3 within six (6) months from the date 
of written request for consultations and negotiations, 
unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise, it 
may be submitted at the choice of the investor: 
 
(a)  to the courts or administrative tribunals of the 
disputing Party, provided such courts or 
administrative tribunals have jurisdiction; or 
 
(b)  under the  International Centre for Settlement of 
Investment Disputes (ICSID) Convention  and the 
ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration 
Proceedings8, provided that both the disputing 
Party and the non-disputing Party are parties to 
the ICSID Convention; or 
                                                        
8   In the case of Philippines, submission of a claim under the  ICSID Convention and the 
ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings  shall be subject to a written 
agreement between the disputing parties in the event that an investment dispute arises. 
20 
 
 
(c)  under the  ICSID Additional Facility Rules , 
provided that either of the disputing Party or non-
disputing Party is a party to the  ICSID 
Convention; or 
 
(d)  to arbitration under the rules of the United 
Nations Commission on International Trade Law; 
or 
 
(e)  if the disputing parties agree, to any other 
arbitration institution or under any other 
arbitration rules. 
 
5.   In case a dispute has been submitted to a competent 
domestic court, it may be submitted to international 
dispute settlement, provided that the investor 
concerned has withdrawn its case from the domestic 
court before a final judgement has been reached in the 
case. In the case of Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, 
and Viet Nam, once the investor has submitted the 
dispute to their respective competent courts or 
administrative tribunals or to one of the arbitration 
procedures stipulated in Sub-paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 4(d) 
or 4(e), the choice of the procedure is final. 
 
6.   The submission of a dispute to conciliation or 
arbitration under Sub-paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 4(d) or 4(e) 
in accordance with the provisions of this Article, shall 
be conditional upon: 
 
(a)  the submission of the dispute to such conciliation 
or arbitration taking place within three (3) years 
of the time at which the disputing investor 
became aware, or should reasonably have 
become aware, of a breach of an obligation 
under this Agreement causing loss or damage to 
the investor or its investment; and 
 
21 
 
(b)  the disputing investor providing written notice, 
which shall be submitted at least ninety (90) days 
before the claim is submitted, to the disputing 
Party of his or her intent to submit the dispute to 
such conciliation or arbitration. Upon the receipt 
of the notice, the disputing Party may require the 
disputing investor to go through any applicable 
domestic administrative review procedure 
specified by its domestic laws and regulations 
before the submission of the dispute under Sub-
paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 4(d) or 4(e). The notice 
shall: 
 
(i)  nominate either Sub-paragraphs 4(b), 4(c), 
4(d) or 4(e) as the forum for dispute 
settlement and, in the case of Sub-
paragraph 4(b), nominate whether 
conciliation or arbitration is being sought; 
 
(ii)   waive the right to initiate or continue any 
proceedings, excluding proceedings for 
interim measures of protection referred to 
in Paragraph 7, before any of the other 
dispute settlement fora referred to in 
Paragraph 4 in relation to the matter under 
dispute; and 
 
(iii)  briefly summarise the alleged breach of the 
disputing Party under this Agreement, 
including the Articles alleged to have been 
breached, and the loss or damage 
allegedly caused to the investor or its 
investment. 
 
7.   No Party shall prevent the disputing investor from 
seeking interim measures of protection, not involving 
the payment of damages or resolution of the substance 
of the matter in dispute before the courts or 
administrative tribunals of the disputing Party, prior to 
22 
 
the institution of proceedings before any of the dispute 
settlement fora referred to in Paragraph 4, for the 
preservation of its rights and interests. 
 
8.   No Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an 
international claim, in respect of a dispute which one of 
its investors and any one of the other Parties shall 
have consented to submit or have submitted to 
conciliation or arbitration under this Article, unless such 
other Party has failed to abide by and comply with the 
award rendered in such dispute. Diplomatic protection, 
for the purposes of this Paragraph, shall not include 
informal diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of 
facilitating a settlement of the dispute. 
 
9.  Where an investor claims that the disputing Party has 
breached Article 8 (Expropriation) by the adoption or 
enforcement of a taxation measure, the disputing Party 
and the non-disputing Party shall, upon request from the 
disputing Party, hold consultations with a view to 
determining whether the taxation measure in question 
has an effect equivalent to expropriation or 
nationalisation. Any tribunal that may be established 
under this Article shall accord serious consideration to 
the decision of both Parties under this Paragraph. 
 
10.  If both Parties fail either to initiate such consultations, or 
to determine whether such taxation measure has an 
effect equivalent to expropriation or nationalisation 
within the period of one hundred eighty (180) days from 
the date of receipt of the request for consultation 
referred to in Paragraph 4, the disputing investor shall 
not be prevented from submitting its claim to arbitration 
in accordance with this Article. 
23 
 
 
Article 15 
Denial of Benefits 
 
1.  Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party 
may deny the benefits of this Agreement to: 
 
(a)  investors of another Party where the investment 
is being made by a juridical person that is owned 
or controlled by persons of a non-Party and the 
juridical person has no substantive business 
operations in the territory of another Party; or 
 
(b)  investors of another Party where the investment 
is being made by a juridical person that is owned 
or controlled by persons of the denying Party. 
 
2.   Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, in the case of Thailand, 
it may, under its applicable laws and/or regulations, 
deny the benefits of this Agreement relating to the 
admission, establishment, acquisition and expansion 
of investments to an investor of the other Party that is 
a juridical person of such Party and to investments of 
such an investor where Thailand establishes that the 
juridical person 9 is owned or controlled by natural 
persons or juridical persons of a non-Party or the 
denying Party. 
 
                                                        
9  (a) In the case of Thailand, a juridical person referred to in this Article is: 
 
(i) “owned” by natural persons or juridical persons of a Party or a non-Party if 
more than fifty (50) percent of the equity interests in it is beneficially 
owned by such persons; 
 
(ii) “controlled” by natural persons or juridical persons of a Party or non-Party 
if such persons have the power to name a majority of its directors or 
otherwise to legally direct its actions. 
 
(b) In the case of Indonesia, Myanmar, Philippines and Viet Nam, ownership and 
control shall be defined in its domestic laws and regulations. 
24 
 
3.   Without prejudice to Paragraph 1, Philippines may 
deny the benefits of this Agreement to investors of 
another Party and to investments of that investor, 
where it establishes that such investor has made an 
investment in breach of the provisions of 
Commonwealth Act No. 108, entitled  “An Act to Punish 
Acts of Evasion of Laws on the Nationalisation of 
Certain Rights, Franchises or Privileges ”, as amended 
by Presidential Decree No. 715, otherwise known as 
"The Anti-Dummy Law", as may be amended. 
 
Article 16 
General Exceptions 
 
1.   Subject to the requirement that such measures are not 
applied in a manner which would constitute a means of 
arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between the 
Parties, their investors or their investments where like 
conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
investors of any Party or their investments made by 
investors of any Party, nothing in this Agreement shall 
be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement 
by any Party of measures: 
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals or to maintain 
public order10; 
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life 
or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to secure compliance with laws or 
regulations which are not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement including those 
relating to: 
 
                                                        
10  For the purpose of this Sub-paragraph, footnote 5 of Article XIV of the GATS is 
incorporated into and forms part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
25 
 
(i)  the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent 
practices to deal with the effects of a 
default on a contract; 
 
(ii)  the protection of the privacy of individuals 
in relation to the processing and 
dissemination of personal data and the 
protection of confidentiality of individual 
records and accounts; and 
 
(iii)  safety; 
 
(d)  aimed at ensuring the equitable or effective 11 
imposition or collection of direct taxes in respect 
of investments or investors of any Party; 
 
(e)  imposed for the protection of national treasures 
of artistic, historic or archaeological value; or 
 
(f)  relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural 
resources if such measures are made effective in 
conjunction with restrictions on domestic 
production or consumption. 
 
2.   Insofar as measures affecting the supply of financial 
services are concerned, paragraph 2 (Domestic 
Regulation) of the Annex on Financial Services of 
GATS shall be incorporated into and form an integral 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
Article 17 
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
                                                        
11  For the purpose of this Sub-paragraph, footnote 6 of Article XIV of the GATS is 
incorporated into and forms part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
26 
 
(a)  to require any Party to furnish any information, 
the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its 
essential security interests; or  
 
(b)  to prevent any Party from taking any action which 
it considers necessary for the protection of its 
essential security interests, including but not 
limited to:  
 
(i)  action relating to fissionable and fusionable 
materials or the materials from which they 
derived; 
 
(ii)  action relating to the traffic in arms, 
ammunition and implements of war and to 
such traffic in other goods and materials as 
is carried on directly or indirectly for the 
purpose of supplying a military 
establishment; 
 
(iii)  action taken so as to protect critical public 
infrastructure from deliberate attempts 
intended to disable or degrade such 
infrastructure;  
 
(iv)  action taken in time of war or other 
emergency in domestic or international 
relations; or 
 
(c)  to prevent any Party from taking any action in 
pursuance of its obligations under the United 
Nations Charter for the maintenance of 
international peace and security. 
 
Article 18 
Other Obligations 
 
1.   If the legislation of any Party or international obligations 
existing at the time of entry into force of this Agreement 
27 
 
or established thereafter between or among the Parties 
result in a position entitling investments by investors of 
another Party to a treatment more favourable than is 
provided for by this Agreement, such position shall not 
be affected by this Agreement. 
 
2.   Each Party shall observe any commitments it may 
have entered into with the investors of another Party as 
regards to their investments. 
 
Article 19  
Transparency 
 
1.   In order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement, 
each Party shall: 
 
(a)  make available through publication, all relevant 
laws, regulations, policies and administrative 
guidelines of general application that pertain to, 
or affect investments in its territory. 
 
(b)  promptly and at least annually notify the other 
Parties of the introduction of any new law or any 
changes to its existing laws, regulations, policies 
or administrative guidelines, which significantly 
affect investments in its territory, or its 
commitments under this Agreement. 
 
(c)  establish or designate an enquiry point where, 
upon request of any natural person, juridical 
person or any one of the other Parties, all 
information relating to the measures required to 
be published or made available under Sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b) may be promptly obtained. 
 
(d)  notify the other Parties through the ASEAN 
Secretariat at least once annually of any future 
investment-related agreements or arrangements 
28 
 
which grants any preferential treatment and to 
which it is a party. 
 
2.   Nothing in this Agreement shall require a Party to 
furnish or allow access to confidential information, the 
disclosure of which would impede law enforcement, or 
otherwise contrary to the public interest, or which 
would prejudice legitimate commercial interests of 
particular juridical persons, public or private. 
 
3.  All notifications and communications made pursuant to 
Paragraph 1 shall be in the English language. 
 
Article 20 
Promotion of Investment 
 
The Parties shall cooperate in promoting and increasing 
awareness of China-ASEAN as an investment area through, 
amongst others: 
 
(a)   increasing China-ASEAN investments; 
 
(b)  organising investment promotion activities; 
 
(c)   promoting business matching events; 
 
(d)  organising and supporting the organisation of 
various briefings and seminars on investment 
opportunities and on investment laws, regulations 
and policies; and 
 
(e)  conducting information exchanges on other 
issues of mutual concern relating to investment 
promotion and facilitation. 
29 
 
 
Article 21 
Facilitation of Investment 
 
Subject to their laws and regulations, the Parties shall 
cooperate to facilitate investments amongst China and 
ASEAN through, amongst others: 
 
(a)  creating the necessary environment for all forms 
of investment; 
 
(b)  simplifying procedures for investment 
applications and approvals; 
 
(c)  promoting dissemination of investment 
information, including investment rules, 
regulations, policies and procedures; and 
 
(d)  establishing one-stop investment centres in the 
respective host Parties to provide assistance and 
advisory services to the business sectors 
including facilitation of operating licences and 
permits. 
 
Article 22  
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1.   Pending the establishment of a permanent body, the 
AEM-MOFCOM, supported and assisted by the SEOM-
MOFCOM, shall oversee, supervise, coordinate and 
review the implementation of this Agreement.  
 
2.   The ASEAN Secretariat shall monitor and report to the 
SEOM-MOFCOM on the implementation of this 
Agreement. All Parties shall cooperate with the ASEAN 
Secretariat in the performance of its duties. 
 
3.   Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate 
communications between the Parties on any matter 
30 
 
covered by this Agreement. On the request of a Party, 
the contact point of the requested Party shall identify 
the office or official responsible for the matter and 
assist in facilitating communication with the requesting 
Party. 
 
Article 23 
Relations with Other Agreements 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall derogate from the existing 
rights and obligations of a Party under any other international 
agreements to which it is a party. 
 
Article 24 
General Review 
 
The AEM-MOFCOM or their designated representatives shall 
meet within a year from the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement and then biennially or otherwise as appropriate to 
review this Agreement with a view to furthering the objectives 
set out in Article 2 (Objectives). 
 
Article 25 
Amendments 
 
This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by 
the Parties and such amendments shall enter into force on 
such date or dates as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
Article 26 
Depositary 
 
For the ASEAN Member States, this Agreement shall be 
deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall 
promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN 
Member State. 
31 
 
 
Article 27 
Entry into Force 
 
1.   This Agreement shall enter into force six (6) months 
from the date of signing of this Agreement. 
 
2.   The Parties undertake to complete their internal 
procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
3.   Where a Party is unable to complete its internal 
procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement 
within six (6) months from the date of signing of this 
Agreement, the rights and obligations of that Party 
under this Agreement shall commence thirty (30) days 
after the date of notification of completion of such 
internal procedures. 
 
4.   A Party shall upon the completion of its internal 
procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement 
notify the other Parties in writing. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned, being duly 
authorised by their respective Governments, have signed 
this Agreement on Investment of the Framework Agreement 
on Comprehensive Economic Co-operation between the 
People’s Republic of China and the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations. 
32 
 
 
DONE at Bangkok, Thailand this Fifteenth Day of August in 
the Year Two Thousand and Nine, in duplicate copies in the 
English Language. 
 
 
For the People’s Republic  For Brunei Darussalam: 
of China   
   
   
   
   
CHEN DEMING  MOHAMED BOLKIAH 
Minister of Commerce  Minister of Foreign Affairs and 
  Trade 
 
  For the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
   
 
 
 
CHAM PRASIDH 
Senior Minister and Minister of 
Commerce 
 
 
 
 
  For the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
MARI ELKA PANGESTU 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
 
 
33 
 
  For the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic: 
 
 
 
 
NAM VIYAKETH 
Minister of Industry and 
Commerce 
 
  For Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
TAN SRI MUHYIDDIN YASSIN 
Minister of International Trade 
and Industry 
 
 
  For the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
U SOE THA 
Minister for National Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
 
  For the Republic of the 
Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
PETER B. FAVILA 
Secretary of Trade and 
Industry 
34 
 
  For the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
LIM HNG KIANG 
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
  For the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
PORNTIVA NAKASAI 
Minister of Commerce 
 
 
  For the Socialist Republic of 
Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 
VU HUY HOANG 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
35 
 
