Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
 
CHAPTER 7 
  TRADE IN SERVICES   
 
 
Article 7.1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  “a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority” means any service 
which is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or more 
service suppliers; 
 
(b)  “aircraft repair and maintenance services” means such activities when undertaken 
on an aircraft or a part thereof while it is withdrawn from service and do not include 
so-called line maintenance; 
 
(c)  “commercial presence” means any type of business or professional establishment, 
including through 
 
(i)  the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a juridical person, or; 
 
(ii)  the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office within the 
territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service; 
 
(d)  “computer reservation system services” means services provided by computerised 
systems that contain information about air carriers’ schedules, availability, fares and 
fare rules, through which reservations can be made or tickets may be issued; 
 
(e)  “direct taxes” comprise all taxes on total income, on total capital or on elements of 
income or of capital, including taxes on gains from the alienation of property, taxes on 
estates, inheritances and gifts, and taxes on the total amounts of wages or salaries paid 
by enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation; 
 
(f)  “juridical person” means any legal entity duly constituted or otherwise organised 
under applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned or 
governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, 
sole proprietorship, or association; 
 
(g)  “juridical person of a Party” means a juridical person which is either: 
 
(i)  constituted or otherwise organised under the law of that Party; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, owned or 
controlled by: 
 
(A)  natural persons of that Party; or 
 
7-1 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
(B)   juridical persons of that Party identified under sub-paragraph g(i) of 
this Article; 
 
(h)  “measure” means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, 
rule, procedure, decision, administrative action, or any other form; 
 
(i)  “measures by a Party” means measures taken by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers  delegated  by  central, 
regional or local governments or authorities; 
 
In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under this Chapter, each Party shall take 
such reasonable measures as may be available to it to ensure their observance by 
regional and local governments and authorities and non-governmental bodies within 
its territory; 
 
(j)  “measures by a Party affecting trade in services” includes measures in respect of: 
 
(i)  the production, distribution, marketing, sale and delivery of a service; 
 
(ii)  the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
 
(iii)  the access to and use of, in connection with the supply of a service, services 
which are required by the Parties to be offered to the public generally; 
 
(iv)  the presence, including commercial presence, of persons of that Party for the 
supply of a service in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(k)  “monopoly supplier of a service” means any person, public or private, which in the 
relevant market of the territory of a Party is authorised or established formally or in 
effect by that Party as the sole supplier of that service; 
 
(l)  “natural person of a Party” means a natural person who is a national of Sri Lanka or 
Singapore, according to their respective legislation; 
 
(m)  “person” means either a natural person or a juridical person; 
 
(n)  “sector” of a service means, 
 
(i)  with reference to a specific commitment, one or more, or all, subsectors of that 
service, as specified in a Party’s Schedule, 
 
(ii)  otherwise, the whole of that service sector, including all of its subsectors; 
 
(o)  “selling and marketing of air transport services” means opportunities for the air 
carrier concerned to sell and market freely its air transport services including all 
aspects of marketing such as market research, advertising and distribution. These 
7-2 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
activities  do  not  include  the  pricing  of  air  transport  services  nor  the  application 
conditions; 
 
(p)  “services” includes any service in any sector except services supplied in the exercise 
of governmental authority; 
 
(q)  “service consumer” means any person that receives or uses a service; 
 
(r)  “service of a Party” means a service which is supplied: 
 
(i)  from or in the territory of that Party, or in the case of maritime transport, by a 
vessel registered under the laws of that Party, or by a person of that Party 
which supplies the service through the operation of a vessel and/or its use in 
whole or in part; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence or through 
the presence of natural persons, by a service supplier of that Party; 
 
(s)  “service supplier” means any person that supplies or seeks to supply a service;1 
 
(t)  “supply  of  a  service”  includes  the  production,  distribution,  marketing,  sale  and 
delivery of a service; 
 
(u)  “trade in services” is defined as the supply of a service: 
 
(i)  from the territory of a Party into the territory of  the other Party ("cross-
border”); 
 
(ii)  in  the  territory  of  a  Party  to  the  service  consumer  of  the  other  Party 
(“consumption abroad”) 
 
(iii)  by a service supplier of a Party, through commercial presence in the territory 
of the other Party (“commercial presence”); 
 
(iv)  by a service supplier of a Party, through presence of natural persons of a Party 
in the territory of the other Party (“presence of natural persons”); 
 
(v)  “traffic rights” means the right for scheduled and non-scheduled services to operate 
and/or to carry passengers, cargo and mail for remuneration or hire from, to, within, 
or over the territory of a Party, including points to be served, routes to be operated, 
types of traffic to be carried, capacity to be provided, tariffs to be charged and their 
conditions, and criteria for designation of airlines, including such criteria as number, 
ownership, and control. 
 
                                                           
1 Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other forms of commercial presence such 
as a branch or a representative office, the service supplier (i.e. the juridical person) shall, nonetheless, through such 
presence be accorded the treatment provided for service suppliers under this Chapter. Such treatment shall be 
extended to the presence through which the service is supplied and need not be extended to any other parts of the 
supplier located outside the territory where the service is supplied. 
 
7-3 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
 
 
 
Article 7.2 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to measures by a Party affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to:  
 
(a)  subsidies or grants provided by a Party or to any conditions attached to the 
receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such 
subsidies are offered exclusively to domestic services, service consumers or 
service  suppliers,  including  government-supported  loans,  guarantees  and 
insurance; 
 
(b)  a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority within the territory 
of each Party; 
 
(c)  government procurement; or 
 
(d)   measures affecting air traffic rights, however granted; or to measures affecting 
services directly related to the exercise of air traffic rights, other than measures 
affecting: 
 
(i)  aircraft repair and maintenance services; 
 
(ii)  the selling and marketing of air transport services; 
 
(iii)  computer reservation system services; 
 
3.  This Chapter shall not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking access to 
the  employment  market  of  a  Party,  nor  shall  it  apply  to  measures  regarding 
citizenship, residence or employment on a permanent basis. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate the 
entry of natural persons of the other Party into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, 
including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the 
orderly movement of natural persons across its borders, provided that such measures 
are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits2 accruing to the 
other Party under the terms of this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
2 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of a certain nationality and not for those of others shall not be 
regarded as nullifying or impairing benefits under a specific commitment. 
7-4 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
Article 7.3 
Market Access 
 
1.  With respect to market access through the modes of supply defined in sub-paragraph 
(u) of Article 7.1 (Definitions), a Party shall accord services and service suppliers of 
the other Party treatment no less favourable than that provided for under the terms, 
limitations and conditions agreed and specified in its respective Schedule of Specific 
Commitments in Annexes 7-A (Sri Lanka) and 7-B (Singapore)3. 
 
2.  In sectors where market access commitments are undertaken, the measures which a 
Party shall not maintain or adopt either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on the 
basis of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in its respective Schedule of 
Specific Commitments in Annexes 7-A (Sri Lanka) and 7-B (Singapore), are: 
 
(a)   limitations  on  the  number  of  service  suppliers  whether  in  the  form  of 
numerical quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the requirements 
of an economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the form of 
numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(c)   limitations on the total number of service operations or on the total quantity of 
service output expressed in terms of designated numerical units in the form of 
quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test4; 
 
(d)   limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed in a 
particular service sector or that a service supplier may employ and who are 
necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific service in the 
form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(e)   measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture 
through which a service supplier may supply a service; and 
 
(f)   limitations  on  the  participation  of  foreign  capital  in  terms  of  maximum 
percentage limit on foreign shareholding or the total value of individual or 
aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
3 If a Party undertakes a market access commitment in relation to the supply of a service through the mode of supply 
referred to in Article 7.1(u)(i) and if the cross-border movement of capital is an essential part of the service itself, that 
Party is thereby committed to allow such movement of capital. If a Party undertakes a market access commitment in 
relation to the supply of a service through the mode of supply referred to in Article 7.1(u)(iii), it is thereby committed 
to allow related transfers of capital into its territory. 
 
4 Sub-paragraph 2(c) of Article 7.3 (Market Access) does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the 
supply of services. 
7-5 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
Article 7.4 
National Treatment 
 
1.  In the sectors set out in its respective Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annexes 
7-A (Sri Lanka) and 7-B (Singapore), and subject to any conditions and qualifications 
set out therein, a Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of the other 
Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of services, treatment no less 
favourable than that it accords to its own like services and service suppliers5. 
2.   A Party may meet the requirement of paragraph 1 of this Article by according to 
services and service suppliers of the other Party, either formally identical treatment or 
formally different treatment to that it accords to its own like services and service 
suppliers. 
 
3.   Formally  identical  or  formally  different  treatment  shall  be  considered  to  be  less 
favourable if it modifies the conditions of competition in favour of services or service 
suppliers of a Party compared to like services or service suppliers of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 7.5 
Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to measures affecting trade in services 
not  subject  to  scheduling  under  Article  7.3  (Market  Access)  or  Article  7.4  (National 
Treatment), including those regarding qualifications, standards or licensing matters. Such 
commitments shall be set out in a Party's Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annexes 7-A 
(Sri Lanka) and 7-B (Singapore). 
 
 
Article 7.6 
Schedule of Specific Commitments 
 
1.   Each Party shall set out in a Schedule the Specific Commitments it undertakes under 
Article  7.3  (Market  Access),  Article  7.4  (National  Treatment)  and  Article  7.5 
(Additional Commitments). With respect to sectors where such commitments are 
undertaken, each Schedule of Specific Commitments shall specify: 
 
(a) terms, limitations and conditions on market access; 
 
(b) conditions and qualifications on national treatment; 
 
(c) undertakings relating to additional commitments; 
 
(d) where appropriate, the time-frame for implementation of such commitments; and 
 
(e) the date of entry into force of such commitments. 
 
                                                           
5 Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require any Party to compensate for any 
inherent competitive disadvantages which result from the foreign character of the relevant services or service 
suppliers. 
 
7-6 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
2.   Measures inconsistent with both Article 7.3 (Market Access) and Article 7.4 (National 
Treatment) shall be inscribed in the column relating to Article 7.3 (Market Access). In 
this case, the inscription will be considered to provide a condition or qualification to 
Article 7.4 (National Treatment) as well. 
 
3.   Each Party shall identify in its Schedule of Specific Commitments sectors or sub-
sectors for future liberalisation with an ‘R’.  In these sectors and subsectors, any 
applicable terms, conditions, limitations, qualifications and undertakings referred to in 
sub-paragraphs 1(a) through 1(c) of this Article shall be limited to measures that the 
Party maintains on the date of entry into force of this Agreement.   
4.   If a Party amends a measure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article in a manner that 
reduces or eliminates the inconsistency of that measure with  Article 7.3 (Market 
Access) or Article 7.4 (National Treatment), as it existed immediately before the 
amendment,  or  provides  further  liberalisation  under  Article  7.5  (Additional 
Commitments), that Party shall not subsequently amend that measure in a way that 
increases the measure’s inconsistency with Article 7.3 (Market Access) or Article 7.4 
(National  Treatment)  or  decreases  liberalisation  under  Article  7.5  (Additional 
Commitments). 
5.  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  inform  the  Joint  Committee  of  its  new  level  of 
commitment pursuant to such unilateral amendments.  Such unilateral amendments 
shall, on the date that the unilateral amendment enters into force, form an integral part 
of that Party’s Schedule of Specific Commitments under this Chapter. 
6.   Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Article shall not apply to all Mode 4 commitments made 
by either Party in its Schedule of Specific Commitments.  In respect of commitments 
made under Modes 1 to 3, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Article shall apply to all 
measures which fall under a sector or sub-sector that a Party identifies for future 
liberalisation with an “R” in its Schedule of Specific Commitments. 
7.   The Schedules of Specific Commitments shall be annexed to this Chapter as Annex 7-
A for Sri Lanka and Annex 7-B for Singapore. 
 
 
Article 7.7 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.   In sectors where specific commitments are undertaken, each Party shall ensure that all 
measures of  general  application  affecting trade in  services  are  administered in  a 
reasonable, objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.   Each  Party  shall  maintain  or  institute  as  soon  as  practicable  judicial,  arbitral  or 
administrative tribunals or procedures which provide, at the request of an affected 
service supplier of the other Party, for the prompt review of, and where justified, 
appropriate remedies for, administrative decisions affecting trade in services. Where 
such procedures are not independent of the agency entrusted with the administrative 
decision concerned, the Party shall ensure that the procedures in fact provide for an 
objective and impartial review. 
 
7-7 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
3.   The provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article shall not be construed to require a Party 
to institute such tribunals or procedures where this would be inconsistent with its 
constitutional structure or the nature of its legal system. 
 
4.   Where  authorisation  is  required for the supply of  a service on  which a  specific 
commitment has been made, the competent authorities of a Party shall, within a 
reasonable period of time after the submission of an application considered complete 
under domestic laws and regulations, inform the applicant of the decision concerning 
the application. At the request of the applicant, the competent authorities of the Party 
shall  provide,  without  undue  delay,  information  concerning  the  status  of  the 
application. 
 
5.   With  the  objective  of  ensuring  that  domestic  regulation,  relating  to  qualification 
requirements and procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements, does not 
constitute an unnecessary barrier to trade in services, the Parties shall jointly review 
the results of the negotiations on disciplines on these measures, pursuant to paragraph 
4 of Article VI of the GATS, with a view to their incorporation into this Chapter. The 
Parties note that such disciplines aim to ensure that such requirements are, inter alia: 
 
(a)  based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and the ability 
to supply the service; 
 
(b)  not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the service;  
 
(c)   in the case of licensing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on the 
supply of the service. 
 
6.   Pending the incorporation of disciplines pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Article, for 
sectors where a Party has undertaken specific commitments and subject to any terms, 
limitations,  conditions  or  qualifications  set  out  therein,  a  Party  shall  not  apply 
licensing and qualification requirements and technical standards that nullify or impair 
such specific commitments in a manner which: 
 
(a)  does not comply with the criteria outlined in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
paragraph 5 of this Article; and 
 
(b)   could not reasonably have been expected of that Party at the time the specific 
commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
7.   In determining whether a Party is in conformity with the obligation under paragraph 6 
of  this  Article,  account  shall  be  taken  of  international  standards  of  relevant 
international organisations6 applied by that Party. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
6 The term "relevant international organisations" refers to international bodies whose memberships are open to the 
relevant bodies of the Parties. 
 
7-8 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
Article 7.8 
Recognition 
 
1.   For the purposes of the fulfilment of its standards or criteria for the authorisation, 
licensing or certification of services suppliers, a Party may recognise the education or 
experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in the 
other Party. 
 
2.   The Parties shall encourage their relevant competent bodies to enter into negotiations 
on recognition of professional qualifications, licenses, or registration procedures with 
a view to the achievement of early outcomes. 
 
3.   Any arrangement reached pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Article shall be consistent 
with this Agreement. 
Article 7.9 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier of a service in its territory does 
not, in the supply of the monopoly service in the relevant market, act in a manner 
inconsistent with that Party's Schedule of Specific Commitments. 
 
2.   Where a Party's monopoly supplier competes, either directly or through an affiliated 
company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of its monopoly rights and 
which is subject to that Party's Schedule of specific commitments, the Party shall 
ensure that such a supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in its territory 
in a manner inconsistent with such commitments. 
 
3.   If a Party has reason to believe that a monopoly supplier of a service of another Party 
is acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraphs 1 or 2 of this Article, it may request 
the Party establishing, maintaining or authorising such supplier to provide specific 
information concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4.   The provisions of this Article shall also apply to cases of exclusive service suppliers, 
where a Party, formally or in effect: 
 
(a)   authorises or establishes a small number of service suppliers; and 
 
(b)   substantially prevents competition among those suppliers in its territory. 
 
 
Article 7.10 
Business Practices 
 
1.   The Parties recognise that certain business practices of service suppliers, other than 
those falling under Article 7.9 (Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers), may 
restrain competition and thereby restrict trade in services. 
 
2.   A Party shall, at the request of the other Party, enter into consultations with a view to 
eliminating practices referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The Party addressed 
shall accord full and sympathetic consideration to such a request and shall cooperate 
7-9 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
through the supply of publicly available non-confidential information of relevance to 
the matter in  question. The Party  addressed shall also  provide other information 
available to the requesting Party, subject to its domestic laws and to the conclusion of 
satisfactory  agreement  concerning  the  safeguarding  of  its  confidentiality  by  the 
requesting Party. 
 
 
Article 7.11 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1.   Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 7.12 (Restrictions to Safeguard 
the  Balance-of-Payments),  a  Party  shall  not  apply  restrictions  on  international 
transfers and payments for current transactions relating to its specific commitments. 
 
2.   Nothing in  this Chapter shall affect  the rights and obligations of the Parties as 
members of the IMF under the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary 
Fund, including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles 
of Agreement, provided that a Party  shall not impose restrictions on any capital 
transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments regarding such transactions, 
except under Article 7.12 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance-of-Payments) or at 
the request of the IMF. 
 
 
Article 7.12 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance-of-Payments 
 
1.   In the event  of  serious balance-of-payments and external  financial  difficulties or 
threat thereof, a Party may adopt or maintain restrictions on trade in services in 
respect of which it has obligations under Article 7.3 (Market Access) and Article 7.4 
(National Treatment), including on payments or transfers for transactions relating to 
such obligations. It is recognised that particular pressures on the balance-of-payments 
of  a  Party  in  the  process  of  economic  development  may  necessitate  the  use  of 
restrictions to ensure, inter alia, the maintenance of a level of financial reserves 
adequate for the implementation of its programme of economic development. 
 
2.   The restrictions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article: 
 
(a)  shall not discriminate among WTO Members; 
 
(b)  shall  be  consistent  with  the  Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  International 
Monetary Fund; 
 
(c)  shall avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic and financial 
interests of the other Party; 
 
(e)  shall not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances described in 
paragraph 1 of this Article; 
 
(e)   shall be temporary and be phased out progressively as the situation specified in 
paragraph 1 of this Article improves. 
7-10 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
 
3.   In determining the incidence of such restrictions, a Party may give priority to the 
supply  of  services  which  are  more  essential  to  its  economic  or  development 
programmes. However, such restrictions shall not be adopted or maintained for the 
purpose of protecting a particular service sector. 
 
4.   Any restrictions adopted or maintained under paragraph 1 of this Article, or any 
changes therein, shall be promptly notified to the other Party. 
 
5.   The Party adopting any restrictions under paragraph 1 of this Article shall commence 
consultations with the other Party in order to review the restrictions adopted by it. 
 
 
 
Article 7.13 
Transparency 
 
1.   Each Party shall publish promptly and, except in emergency situations, at the latest by 
the time of their entry into force, all relevant measures of general application which 
pertain to or affect the operation of this Chapter. International agreements pertaining 
to or affecting trade in services to which a Party is a signatory shall also be published. 
 
2.   Where publication as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is not practicable, such 
information shall be made otherwise publicly available. 
 
3.   Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by the other Party for specific 
information on any of its measures of general application or international agreements 
within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. Each Party shall also use the 
existing enquiry points or, when they do not exist, establish one or more enquiry 
points to provide specific information to the other Party, upon request, on all such 
matters. 
 
 
Article 7.14 
Disclosure of Confidential Information 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall require any Party to provide confidential information, the 
disclosure of which would impede law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public 
interest, or which would prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, 
public or private. 
 
 
Article 7.15 
Relationship with Chapter 10 (Investment) 
 
1.   Chapter 10 (Investment) does not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party 
to the extent that they are covered by this Chapter. 
2.   Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, the following Articles and Section of 
Chapter 10 (Investment) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to any measure affecting the 
7-11 Chapter 7 –Trade in Services 
supply of services by a service supplier of a Party through commercial presence in the 
territory of the other Party: 
(a)  Article 10.3 (Minimum Standard of Treatment); 
(b)  Article 10.6 (Compensation for Losses); 
(c)  Article 10.10 (Expropriation); 
(d)  Article 10.11 (Transfers);  
(e)  Article 10.12 (Subrogation); and 
(f)   Section 10-B (Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor), 
but only to the extent that any such measures relate to a covered investment and an 
obligation under Chapter 10 (Investment), regardless of whether such a service sector 
is scheduled in the Party’s Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annexes 7-A (Sri 
Lanka) and 7-B (Singapore). 
 
Article 7.16 
Denial of Benefits 
 
1.   Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party may deny the benefits of this 
Chapter: 
 
(a)  to the supply of a service, if it establishes that the service is supplied from or in 
the territory of a non-Party; 
 
(b)  in the case of the supply of a maritime transport service, if it establishes that 
the service is supplied: 
 
(i)  by a vessel registered under the laws of a non-Party, and 
 
(ii)  by a person which operates and/or uses the vessel in whole or in part 
but which is of a non-Party; 
 
(c)  to a service supplier of the other Party where the Party establishes that the 
service supplier is owned or controlled by persons of a non-Party and that it 
has no substantive business operations in the territory of a Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7-12 