 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A 
 
SCHEDULE OF CANADA 
 
 
SECTION A: Central Government Entities 
   
 
Unless  otherwise  specified,  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  cover 
procurement by entities listed in this Section, subject to the following thresholds: 
 
 
Thresholds:   
   
130,000 SDRs   Goods 
130,000 SDRs   Services 
5,000,000 SDRs  Construction Services 
 
List of Entities: 
 
1.  Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency  
2.  Canada Border Services Agency 
3.  Canada Emission Reduction Incentives Agency 
4.  Canada Employment Insurance Commission 
5.  Canada Industrial Relations Board 
6.  Canada Revenue Agency 
7.  Canada School of Public Service 
8.  Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety 
9.  Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency 
10.  Canadian Food Inspection Agency 
11.  Canadian Grain Commission 
12.  Canadian Human Rights Commission 
13.  Canadian Human Rights Tribunal 
14.  Canadian Institutes of Health Research 
15.  Canadian Intergovernmental Conference Secretariat 
16.  Canadian International Trade Tribunal 
17.  Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency 
18.  Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
19.  Canadian Polar Commission 
20.  Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission  
21.  Canadian Transportation Accident Investigation and Safety Board 
22.  Canadian Transportation Agency  
23.  Copyright Board 
24.  Correctional Service of Canada 
25.  Courts Administration Service 
26.  Department of Agriculture and Agri-Food 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 1 
 
  
 
27.  Department of Canadian Heritage 
28.  Department of Citizenship and Immigration 
29.  Department of Employment and Social Development 
30.  Department of Finance 
31.  Department of Fisheries and Oceans 
32.  Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development 
33.  Department of Health 
34.  Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development 
35.  Department of Industry 
36.  Department of Justice 
37.  Department of National Defence 
38.  Department of Natural Resources 
39.  Department of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness 
40.  Department of Public Works and Government Services  
41.  Department of the Environment 
42.  Department of Transport 
43.  Department of Veterans Affairs 
44.  Department of Western Economic Diversification 
45.  Director of Soldier Settlement 
46.  Director, The Veterans' Land Act 
47.  Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec  
48.  Federal Economic Development Agency for Southern Ontario 
49.  Financial Consumer Agency of Canada 
50.  Immigration and Refugee Board 
51.  Indian Residential Schools Truth and Reconciliation Commission 
52.  Library and Archives of Canada 
53.  Military Grievances External Review Committee 
54.  Military Police Complaints Commission 
55.  National Battlefields Commission 
56.  National Energy Board  
57.  National Farm Products Council 
58.  National Film Board 
59.  National Research Council of Canada 
60.  Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council  
61.  Northern Pipeline Agency  
62.  Office of Infrastructure of Canada 
63.  Office of the Auditor General 
64.  Office of the Chief Electoral Officer 
65.  Office of the Commissioner for Federal Judicial Affairs 
66.  Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying 
67.  Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages 
68.  Office of the Coordinator, Status of Women 
69.  Office of the Correctional Investigator of Canada 
70.  Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 
71.  Office of the Governor General's Secretary 
72.  Office of the Public Sector Integrity Commissioner 
73.  Office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court of Canada 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 2 
 
  
 
74.  Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions 
75.  Offices of the Information and Privacy Commissioners of Canada  
76.  Parks Canada Agency 
77.  Parole Board of Canada 
78.  Patented Medicine Prices Review Board 
79.  Privy Council Office 
80.  Public Health Agency of Canada 
81.  Public Service Commission 
82.  Public Service Labour Relations and Employment Board 
83.  Registry of the Competition Tribunal 
84.  Registry of the Public Servants Disclosure Protection Tribunal 
85.  Registry of the Specific Claims Tribunal 
86.  Royal Canadian Mounted Police 
87.  Royal Canadian Mounted Police External Review Committee 
88.  Royal Canadian Mounted Police Public Complaints Commission 
89.  Security Intelligence Review Committee 
90.  Shared Services Canada 
91.  Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council 
92.  Statistics Canada 
93.  Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada 
94.  Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat 
95.  Veterans Review and Appeal Board 
 
 
Note to Section A 
 
  No entity listed in this Section has the power to create subordinate entities. 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 3 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION B: Sub-Central Government Entities 
 
 
Unless  otherwise  specified,  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  cover 
procurement by entities listed in this Section, subject to the following thresholds: 
     
Thresholds:     
 
355,000 SDRs   Goods 
355,000 SDRs   Services 
5,000,000 SDRs  Construction Services 
 
List of Entities: 
 
*†ALBERTA 
 
All Ministries and Agencies (All Government Departments and Provincial Agencies, 
Boards, Councils, Committees and Commissions) of the Province. 
 
This Section does not include: 
 
1.  Legislative Assembly 
2.  Legislative Assembly Office 
3.  Office of the Auditor General 
4.  Office of the Chief Electoral Officer 
5.  Office of the Ethics Commissioner 
6.  Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner 
7.  Office of the Ombudsman 
 
 
*†BRITISH COLUMBIA 
 
All Ministries, Boards, Commissions, Agencies and Committees of the Province. 
 
This Section does not include the Legislative Assembly.  
 
 
†MANITOBA 
 
All Departments, Boards, Commissions and Committees of the Province. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 4 
 
  
 
 
†NEW BRUNSWICK 
 
The following provincial entities are included: 
 
1.  Chief Electoral Officer 
2.  Clerk of the Legislative Assembly 
3.  Department of Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fisheries 
4.  Department of Business New Brunswick 
5.  Department of Education and Early Childhood Development 
6.  Department of Energy and Mines 
7.  Department of Environment and Local Government 
8.  Department of Finance 
9.  Department of Health 
10. Department of Justice  
11. Department of Natural Resources 
12. Department of Post-Secondary Education, Training and Labour 
13. Department of Public Safety 
14. Department of Social Development 
15. Department of Government Services 
16. Department of Tourism, Heritage and Culture  
17. Department of Transportations and Infrastructure 
18. Executive Council Office 
19. Labour and Employment Board 
20. Language Training Centre 
21. New Brunswick Police Commission 
22. Office of Human Resources 
23. Office of the Attorney General 
24. Office of the Auditor General 
25. Office of the Comptroller 
26. Office of the Leader of the Opposition 
27. Office of the Lieutenant-Governor 
28. Office of the Ombudsman 
29. Office of the Premier 
 
  This Section does not cover procurement of sand, stone, gravel, asphalt compound and 
pre-mixed concrete for use in the construction or repair of roads.    
 
 
†NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR 
 
All Departments of the Province. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 5 
 
  
 
 
†NORTHWEST TERRITORIES 
 
All Departments and Agencies of the Territory. 
 
This Section does not cover procurement subject to the Northwest Territories Business 
Incentive Policy 
 
 
*†NOVA SCOTIA 
 
This Section applies to all Departments and Offices of the Province established under the 
Public Service Act, except for the following entities and circumstances: 
 
1.  Emergency  Health  Services  (a  subdivision  of  the  Department  of  Health  and 
Wellness)  in  respect  to  ambulance-related  procurement,  including 
telecommunications, for emergency health care purposes; 
 
2.  The  Information,  Communications  and  Technology  Services  Branch  of  the 
Department  of  Internal  Services  and  the  Chief  Information  Office  of  the 
Department of Health and Wellness; 
 
3.  Any measure Nova Scotia adopts or maintains with respect to culture or cultural 
industries; and 
 
4.  Procurement  of  FSC  58  (communications,  detection  and  coherent  radiation 
equipment). 
 
 
†NUNAVUT 
 
All Departments and Agencies of the Territory.  
 
This  Section  does  not  cover  procurement  subject  to  the  Nunavummi 
Nangminiqaqtunik Ikajuuti (NNI Policy) nor those contracts within the terms of Article 24 of 
the Nunavut Land Claims Agreement. 
 
 
ONTARIO 
 
All Ministries of the Province. 
 
The following Agencies are included: 
 
1.  AgriCorp 
2.  Centennial Centre of Science and Technology (Ontario Science Centre) 
3.  Deposit Insurance Corporation of Ontario 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 6 
 
  
 
4.  Metropolitan Convention Centre Corporation 
5.  Niagara Parks Commission 
6.  Ontario Clean Water Agency 
7.  Ontario Financial Services Commission 
8.  Ontario Immigrant Investor Corporation 
9.  Ontario Mortgage and Housing Corporation 
10. Ontario Mortgage Corporation 
11. Ontario Northland Transportation Commission 
12. Ontario Tourism Marketing Partnership Corporation 
13. Ottawa Congress Centre 
14. Science North 
 
 
*†PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND 
 
All Departments of the Province. 
 
This Section does not cover procurement of construction materials that are used for 
highway construction and maintenance. 
 
 
*QUÉBEC 
 
All  departments  of  the  Province  and  the  governmental  agencies  set  out  in 
subparagraph (2) of the first paragraph of section 4 of the Act Respecting Contracting by 
Public Bodies (Chapter C-65.1).  
 
The following entities are also included: 
 
1.  Agence du revenu du Québec (Québec Revenue Agency) 
2.  Institut national d’excellence en santé et en services sociaux (National Institute for 
Excellence in Health and Social Services) 
 
This Section does not cover procurement: 
 
(a)  of cultural or artistic goods and services; 
 
(b)  of seedling production services; 
 
(c)  for work to be performed on property by a contractor according to provisions 
of a warranty or guarantee held in respect of the property or the original 
work; 
 
(d)  of construction-grade steel (including requirements on subcontracts);  and 
 
(e)  from a non-profit organization. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 7 
 
  
 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to any measure of Québec 
adopted or maintained with respect to culture or cultural industries. 
 
 
*†SASKATCHEWAN 
 
All Ministries of the Province. 
 
The following Boards and Agencies are covered: 
 
1.  Public Employee Benefits Agency 
2.  Saskatchewan Archives Board 
3.  Saskatchewan Arts Board 
 
This Section does not include Legislative Branch Entities. 
 
 
*†YUKON 
 
The following Departments of the Territory are covered: 
 
1.  Department of Community Services 
2.  Department of Economic Development 
3.  Department of Education 
4.  Department of Energy, Mines and Resources 
5.  Department of Environment 
6.  Department of Finance 
7.  Department of Health and Social Services 
8.  Department of Highways and Public Works 
9.  Department of Justice 
10. Department of Tourism and Culture 
11. Executive Council Office 
12. Public Service Commission 
 
  The following Agencies are included. 
 
1.  French Language Services Directorate 
2.  Women’s Directorate 
3.  Yukon Worker’s Compensation Health and Safety Board 
 
Notes to Section B 
 
1.  For  provinces  and  territories  listed  in  this  Section,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement) shall not apply to preferences or restrictions on highway projects. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 8 
 
  
 
2.  For  provinces  and  territories  listed  in  this  Section,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement)  shall  not  apply  to  preferences  or  restrictions  associated  with  programmes 
promoting the development of distressed areas. 
 
3.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement that is intended to 
contribute to economic development within the provinces of Manitoba, Newfoundland and 
Labrador,  New  Brunswick,  Prince  Edward  Island  and  Nova  Scotia  or  the  territories  of 
Nunavut, Yukon or Northwest Territories. 
 
4.  For those provinces and territories marked by an asterisk (*), Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement) shall not cover procurement: 
 
(a)  of goods purchased for representational or promotional purposes; or 
 
(b)  of  services  or  construction  services  purchased  for  representational  or 
promotional purposes outside the province or territory. 
 
5.  For those provinces and territories marked by an obelisk (†), Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of goods, services or construction services 
purchased for the benefit of, or which is to be transferred to the authority of, school boards or 
their functional equivalents, publicly-funded academic institutions, social services entities or 
hospitals. 
 
6.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not include Crown Corporations of the 
provinces and territories. 
 
7.  For  provinces  and  territories  listed  in  Section  B,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement) shall not cover procurement of urban rail and urban transportation equipment, 
systems, components and materials incorporated therein as well as all project related materials 
of iron or steel. 
 
8.  For  Malaysia,  Mexico,  United  States  and  Viet  Nam,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement) shall not apply to procurement by entities listed in Section B.  Canada is 
prepared  to  extend  coverage  of  Section  B  upon  the  negotiation  of  mutually  acceptable 
concessions. 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 9 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION C: Other Entities 
 
 
Unless  otherwise  specified,  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  cover 
procurement by the entities listed in this Section, subject to the following thresholds. 
     
Thresholds:   
   
355,000 SDRs   Goods 
355,000 SDRs   Services 
5,000,000 SDRs  Construction Services 
 
List of Other Entities: 
 
1.  Atlantic Pilotage Authority 
2.  Blue Water Bridge Authority 
3.  Canada Development Investment Corporation 
4.  Canada Lands Company Limited 
5.  Canada Post Corporation 
6.  Canadian Museum for Human Rights 
7.  Canadian Museum of History 
8.  Canadian Museum of Nature 
9.  Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 
10. Canadian Tourism Commission 
11. Defence Construction (1951) Ltd. 
12. Federal Bridge Corporation Limited 
13. Great Lakes Pilotage Authority 
14. Laurentian Pilotage Authority 
15. Marine Atlantic Inc. 
16. National Capital Commission 
17. National Gallery of Canada 
18. National Museum of Science and Technology 
19. Pacific Pilotage Authority 
20. PPP Canada Inc. 
21. Royal Canadian Mint 
22. Via Rail Canada Inc. 
 
Notes to Section C 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement by or on behalf of 
the Royal Canadian Mint of direct inputs for use in minting anything other than Canada legal 
tender. 
 
2.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement by the Canada 
Lands  Company  Limited  or  its  subsidiaries  for  the  development  of  real  property  for 
commercial sale or resale. 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 10 
 
  
 
 
3.  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  not  cover  leasing  or  rental  of 
transportation equipment by or on behalf of Canada Post Corporation, Marine Atlantic Inc., or 
any pilotage authority. 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 11 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION D: Goods 
 
 
1.  Unless  otherwise  specified  and  subject  to  paragraph  2,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement) shall cover all goods. 
 
2.  Subject  to  the  application  of  Article  29.2  (Security  Exceptions)  with  respect  to 
procurement by the Department of National Defence, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, 
the Department of Fisheries and Oceans for the Canadian Coast Guard, and provincial police 
forces, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall cover only the goods described in the 
Federal Supply Classifications (FSC) listed below: 
 
FSC  Description 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 12 
 
  
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 13 
 
  
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 14 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION E: Services 
 
 
1.  Unless otherwise specified, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall cover the 
services specified in paragraphs 2 and 3.  Such services are identified in accordance with the 
United Nations Provisional Central Product Classification (CPC Prov.) which is found at:  
http://unstats.un.org/unsd/cr/registry/regcst.asp?Cl=9&Lg=1.  For purposes of implementation 
of Chapter 15 (Government Procurement), Canada reserves the right to use a classification 
system of its choosing.   
 
2.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall cover the following services procured by 
central government entities listed in Section A and other entities listed in Section C: 
 
61  Sale,  Maintenance  and  Repair  Services  of  Motor  Vehicles  and 
Motorcycles 
 
62   Commission  agents’  and  wholesale  trade  services,  except  of  motor 
vehicles and motorcycles 
 
7522  Business network services 
 
7525  Interconnection services 
 
7526  Integrated telecommunications services 
 
754  Telecommunications related services 
 
83  Leasing or rental services without operator 
 
861  Legal Services (advisory services on foreign and international law only) 
 
862  Accounting, auditing and book-keeping services 
 
863  Taxation Services (except legal services) 
 
86503  Marketing management consulting services 
 
8671  Architectural services 
 
8672  Engineering services 
 
8673  Integrated  engineering  services  (except  86731  Integrated  engineering 
services for transportation infrastructure turnkey projects) 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 15 
 
  
 
8676  Technical  testing  and  analysis  services  including  quality  control  and 
inspection (except with reference to transportation equipment) 
 
872  Placement and supply services of personnel 
 
87903  Telephone answering services 
 
87906  Mailing list compilation and mailing services 
 
881  Services incidental to agriculture, hunting and forestry  
 
882  Services incidental to fishing 
 
884   Services  incidental  to  manufacturing  (except  88442  Publishing  and 
printing, on a fee or contract basis) 
 
885   Services incidental to the manufacture of metal products, machinery and 
equipment 
 
886  Repair services incidental to metal products, machinery and equipment  
 
8921  Patent Agents 
 
8922  Trademark Agents 
 
923/924        Vocational, Technical and Professional Training 
 
932  Veterinary  services  (except  veterinary  diagnostic  services  relating  to 
zoonotic infectious diseases and related surveillance services) 
 
9701  Washing, cleaning and dyeing services 
 
9702  Hairdressing and other beauty services 
 
 
3.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall cover the following services procured by 
central government entities listed in Section A, sub-central  government entities listed in 
Section B, and other entities listed in Section C: 
 
633  Repair services of personal and household goods 
 
64  Hotel and Restaurant services 
 
7471  Travel agency and tour operator services 
 
7512  Commercial courier services (including multi-modal) 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 16 
 
  
 
7523  Electronic data interchange (EDI) 
 
7523  Electronic mail 
 
7523  Enhanced/value-added facsimile services, including store and forward, 
store and retrieve  
- Code and protocol conversion 
 
7523  On-line information and data base retrieval 
 
7523  Voice mail 
 
821  Real estate services involving own or leased property 
 
822  Real estate services on a fee or contract basis 
 
83106 
to 83109  
only  Leasing or rental services concerning machinery and equipment without 
operator 
 
83203 
to 83209  
only  Leasing or rental services concerning personal and household goods 
 
841  Consultancy services related to the installation of computer hardware 
 
842  Software  implementation  services,  including  systems  and  software 
consulting  services,  systems  analysis,  design,  programming  and 
maintenance services 
 
843  Data processing services, including processing, tabulation and facilities 
management services 
 
843  On-line  information  and/or  data  processing  (including  transaction 
processing) 
 
844  Data base services 
 
845  Maintenance  and  repair  services  of  office  machinery  and  equipment 
including computers 
 
849  Other computer services 
 
86501  General management consulting services 
 
86504  Human resources management consulting services 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 17 
 
  
 
 
86505  Production management consulting services 
 
866  Services related to management consulting (except 86602 Arbitration and 
conciliation services) 
 
8674  Urban planning and landscape architectural services 
 
8676  Technical  testing  and  analysis  services  including  quality  control  and 
inspection  (except  with  reference  to  FSC  58  and  transportation 
equipment) 
 
874  Building-cleaning services 
 
876  Packaging services 
 
8814  Services incidental to forestry and logging, including forest management 
 
883  Services incidental to mining, including drilling and field services 
 
8861 
to 8864, 
and 8866  Repair services incidental to metal products, machinery and equipment 
 
94  Sewage and refuse disposal, sanitation and similar services 
 
 
Notes to Section E 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement of the following: 
 
(a)  Services  for  the  management  and  operation  of  government  facilities  or 
privately owned facilities used for government purposes, including federally-
funded research and development;  
 
(b)  Public utilities services; 
 
(c)  Shipbuilding and repair and related architectural and engineering services; 
 
(d)  Services,  with  reference  to  those  goods  purchased  by  the  Department  of 
National Defence, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the Department of 
Fisheries and Oceans for the Canadian Coast  Guard and provincial police 
forces which are not covered by Chapter 15 (Government Procurement); 
 
(e)  Services procured in support of military forces located overseas; and 
 
(f)  Services related to culture or cultural industries. 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 18 
 
  
 
 
2.  The coverage of any service listed in this Section that is provided by or from an 
aircraft is covered with respect to a particular Party only to the extent that such Party provides 
effective market access for such service in its territory. 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 19 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION F: Construction Services 
 
 
1.  Unless  otherwise  specified  and  subject  to  paragraph  2,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement) shall cover all construction services identified in Division 51 of the United 
Nations Provisional Central Product Classification (CPC Prov.) . 
 
2.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement of the following: 
 
(a)  dredging services; and 
 
(b)  construction services procured by or on behalf of the federal Department of 
Transport. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 20 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION G: General Notes 
 
 
Unless otherwise specified, the following General Notes shall apply to Chapter 15 
(Government Procurement), including to Sections A through F. 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement in respect of: 
 
(a)  shipbuilding and repair, including related architectural and engineering services;  
 
(b)  agricultural goods made in furtherance of agricultural support programmes or 
human feeding programmes;  
 
(c)  transportation services that form a part of, or are incidental to, a procurement   
contract; and 
 
(d)  an international crossing between Canada and another country, including the 
design, construction, operation or maintenance of the crossing as well as any 
related infrastructure. 
 
2.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement by a procuring 
entity from another government entity. 
 
3.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any form of preference, including set asides, to benefit micro, small and medium 
enterprises; and 
 
(b)  any measure adopted or maintained with respect to Aboriginal peoples, nor to set 
asides for aboriginal businesses; existing aboriginal or treaty rights of any of the 
Aboriginal peoples of Canada protected by section 35 of the Constitution Act, 
1982 are not affected by Chapter 15 (Government Procurement). 
 
4.  For greater certainty, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall be interpreted in 
accordance with the following:   
 
(a)  The procurement process is the process that begins after a procuring entity has 
decided on its requirement  and continues through to  and including contract 
award;   
 
(b)  Where a contract to be awarded by a procuring entity is not covered by Chapter 
15 (Government Procurement), Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not 
be construed to cover any good or service component of that contract; 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 21 
 
  
 
(c)  Any exclusion that is related either specifically or generally to a procuring entity 
will also apply to any successor entity in such a manner as to maintain the value 
of this offer; 
 
(d)  For the purpose of the definition of build-operate-transfer contract and public 
works concession contract, a “contractual arrangement” means a contract;    
 
(e)  Services  covered  by  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  are  subject  to 
Canada’s exclusions from and reservations to Chapter 10 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services), Chapter 9 (Investment) and Chapter 11 (Financial Services);  
 
(f)  For the purposes of Article  15.12.7 (Technical Specifications),  "government 
information"  includes  third  party  information  held  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
government  and  "sensitive"  information  includes  confidential,  classified  or 
otherwise protected information; and 
 
(g)  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  not  cover  procurement  by  a 
procuring entity on behalf of another entity where the procurement would not be 
covered by Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) if it were conducted by the 
other entity itself. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 22 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION H: Threshold Adjustment Formula 
 
 
1.  The thresholds shall be adjusted in every even-numbered year with each adjustment 
taking effect on January 1, beginning on January 1 of the first even-numbered year after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for Canada. 
 
2.  Every two years, Canada shall calculate and publish the value of the thresholds under 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) expressed in Canadian dollars.  These calculations 
shall be based on the conversion rates published by the International Monetary Fund in its 
monthly International Financial Statistics. 
 
3.  The conversion rates shall be the average of the daily values of the Canadian dollar 
in terms of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) over the two-year period preceding October 1 
of the year before the adjusted thresholds are to take effect.  
 
4.  Canada shall consult if a major change in its national currency relative to the SDR or 
to the national currency of another Party were to create a significant problem with regard to 
the application of Chapter 15 (Government Procurement).  
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 23 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION I: Procurement Information 
 
 
All information on government procurements is published on the following websites. 
 
Legislation and Regulations: http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca 
 
Canadian Government Tender System: https://buyandsell.gc.ca/ 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 24 
 
  
 
 
 
SECTION J: Transitional Measures 
 
 
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CANADA – 25 
 
 