ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 1 
 
 
 
APPENDIX D  
 
BETWEEN JAPAN AND CANADA ON MOTOR VEHICLE TRADE  
 
 
Article 1 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Appendix:  
 
Appendix Party means either Japan or Canada, as the case may be; 
 
motor vehicle means any good classified under heading 87.03; and 
 
originating motor vehicle means any motor vehicle qualifying as originating 
under Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures). 
 
2. 
No Party other than an Appendix Party shall have recourse to dispute 
settlement under Chapter 28 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter arising under this 
Appendix or to dispute settlement under Article 4 for any matter arising under this 
Agreement.  No Appendix Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under 
Chapter 28 (Dispute Settlement) for nullification or impairment within the 
meaning of Article 28.3.1(c) (Scope) for any matter arising under Article 3 or 
Article 4 of this Appendix. 
 
 
Article 2 
 
An Appendix Party shall accord to the other Appendix Party treatment no 
less favourable than that accorded to a Party other than the other Appendix Party 
with respect to technical regulations, standards or conformity assessment 
procedures on motor vehicles that are adopted or applied in accordance with a 
bilateral agreement provided for in this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 3  
 
An Appendix Party may apply a transitional safeguard measure on 
originating motor vehicles from the other Appendix Party classified under heading 
87.03, during the transition period only, in accordance with the provisions set out 
in Chapter 6 (Trade Remedies), with the following procedural modifications: 
 
 
(a) 
In lieu of the definition of transition period provided for in Article 
6.1 (Definitions), the following definition shall apply:  
 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 2 
 
transition period means the period beginning on the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement with respect to Japan and Canada and 
ending on the date that is 12 years after the end of the period of the 
staged tariff elimination for a particular good. 
 
(b) 
In lieu of Article 6.4.2 (Standards for a Transitional Safeguard 
Measure), the following shall apply:  
 
Neither Appendix Party shall apply a transitional safeguard 
measure for a period exceeding three years, except that the period 
may be extended by up to two years if the competent authority of 
the Appendix Party that applies the measure determines, in 
conformity with the procedures set out in Article 6.5 (Investigation 
Procedures and Transparency Requirements), that the transitional 
safeguard measure continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy 
serious injury and to facilitate adjustment. 
 
(c) 
Paragraphs 4 and 6 of Article 6.4 (Standards for a Transitional 
Safeguard Measure) shall not apply.  
  
(d) 
In lieu of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6.7 (Compensation), the 
following shall apply: 
 
(i) 
An Appendix Party applying a transitional safeguard 
measure shall consult with the other Appendix Party in 
order to mutually agree on appropriate trade liberalising 
compensation in the form of concessions that have 
substantially equivalent trade effects or equivalent to the 
value of the additional duties expected to result from the 
transitional safeguard measure.  The Appendix Party shall 
provide an opportunity for those consultations no later than 
30 days after the application of the transitional safeguard 
measure; 
 
(ii) 
If the consultations under subparagraph (d)(i) do not result 
in an agreement on trade liberalising compensation within 
30 days after the consultations begin, the Appendix Party 
against whose good the transitional safeguard measure is 
applied may suspend the application of substantially 
equivalent concessions to the trade of the Appendix Party 
applying the transitional safeguard measure; and 
 
(iii) 
The right of suspension referred to in subparagraph (d)(ii) 
shall not be exercised for the first 24 months during which 
a transitional safeguard measure is in effect, provided that 
the transitional safeguard measure conforms to the 
provisions of this Agreement. 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 3 
 
 
 
Article 4  
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Article, the definitions set out in Article 28.1 
(Definitions) shall apply, mutatis mutandis.1  
 
2. 
With respect to any matter described in Article 28.3 (Scope) that relates to 
motor vehicles, an Appendix Party may initiate the dispute settlement procedures 
set out in this Article in lieu of the procedures provided for in Article 28.4 (Choice 
of Forum), Article 28.5 (Consultations), Article 28.6 (Good Offices, Conciliation 
and Mediation), Article 28.7 (Establishment of a Panel), Article 28.8 (Terms of 
Reference), Article 28.9 (Composition of Panels), Article 28.10 (Qualifications of 
Panellists), Article 28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists), Article 
28.12 (Function of Panels), Article 28.13 (Rules of Procedure for Panels), Article 
28.14 (Third Party Participation), Article 28.15 (Role of Experts), Article 28.16 
(Suspension or Termination of Proceedings), Article 28.17 (Initial Report), Article 
28.18 (Final Report), Article 28.19 (Implementation of Final Report), Article 
28.20 (Non-Implementation – Compensation and Suspension of Benefits) and 
Article 28.21 (Compliance Review).2 
 
3. 
(a) 
An Appendix Party may request consultations with the other 
Appendix Party with respect to any matter described in paragraph 
2.  The Appendix Party making the request for consultations shall 
do so in writing, and shall set out the reasons for the request, 
including identification of the actual or proposed measure or other 
matter at issue and an indication of the legal basis for the 
complaint.  The requesting Appendix Party shall circulate the 
request concurrently to the other Parties through the overall contact 
points designated under Article 27.5.1 (Contact Points).  
 
(b) 
The Appendix Party to which a request for consultations is made 
shall, unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, reply in writing 
to the request no later than seven days after the date of its receipt of 
the request.3  That Appendix Party shall circulate its reply 
                                                 
1  For the purposes of this paragraph, the references to “Article 28.5.1 (Consultations)”, “Article 
28.7 (Establishment of a Panel)” and “Article 28.7.1 (Establishment of a Panel) ” in Article 28.1 
(Definitions) shall be deemed to read “paragraph 3”, “paragraph 4” and “paragraph 4(a)”, 
respectively.  
 
2  For greater certainty, no Appendix Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under this 
Article for any matter for which it shall not have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 28 
(Dispute Settlement). 
 
3  For greater certainty, if the Appendix Party to which a request for consultations is made does not 
reply within the time period specified in this subparagraph, it shall be deemed to have received the 
request seven days after the date on which the Appendix Party making the request for 
consultations transmitted that request. 
 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 4 
 
concurrently to the other Parties through the overall contact points 
and enter into consultations in good faith. 
 
(c) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, they shall enter into 
consultations no later than 15 days after the date of receipt of the 
request.  
 
(d) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, paragraphs 5 through 
8 of Article 28.5 (Consultations) shall apply, mutatis mutandis,4 to 
the consultations under this paragraph. 
 
4. 
(a) 
An Appendix Party that requested consultations under paragraph 
3(a) may request, by means of a written notice addressed to the 
other Appendix Party, the establishment of a panel if the Appendix 
Parties fail to resolve the matter within a period of 30 days after the 
date of receipt of the request for consultations under paragraph 
3(a). 
 
(b) 
The complaining Appendix Party shall circulate the request 
concurrently to the other Parties through the overall contact points 
designated under Article 27.5.1 (Contact Points). 
 
(c) 
Paragraphs 3, 4 and 7 of Article 28.7 (Establishment of a Panel) 
shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the establishment of a panel.  
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, the panel shall be 
composed in a manner consistent with this Article and, subject to 
the time frames set out in paragraph 6, the Rules of Procedure. 
 
5. 
(a) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise no later than 15 days 
after the date of delivery of the request for the establishment of a 
panel, the terms of reference shall be to: 
 
(i) 
examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, the matter referred to in the request for the 
establishment of a panel under paragraph 4(a); and 
 
(ii) 
make findings and determinations, and any jointly 
requested recommendations, together with its reasons 
therefor, as provided for in Article 28.17.4 (Initial Report) 
as applied pursuant to paragraph 8.  
 
(b) 
If, in its request for the establishment of a panel, the complaining 
Appendix Party claims that a measure nullifies or impairs benefits 
                                                 
4  For the purposes of this subparagraph, the references to “this Article” in paragraphs 6 and 7 of 
Article 28.5 (Consultations) shall be deemed to read “this paragraph”. 
 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 5 
 
within the meaning of Article 28.3.1(c) (Scope), the terms of 
reference shall so indicate. 
 
6. 
(a) 
A panel shall be composed of three members. 
 
(b) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, they shall apply the 
following procedures to compose a panel: 
 
(i) 
Within a period of 15 days after the date of delivery of the 
request for the establishment of a panel under paragraph 
4(a), the complaining Appendix Party, on the one hand, and 
the responding Appendix Party, on the other, shall each 
appoint a panellist and notify each other of those 
appointments. 
 
(ii) 
If the complaining Appendix Party fails to appoint a 
panellist within the period specified in subparagraph (b)(i), 
the dispute settlement proceedings shall lapse at the end of 
that period. 
 
(iii) 
If the responding Appendix Party fails to appoint a panellist 
within the period specified in subparagraph (b)(i), the 
complaining Appendix Party shall select the panellist not 
yet appointed: 
 
 
(A) 
from 
the 
responding 
Appendix 
Party’s 
list 
established under Article 28.11.9 (Roster of Panel 
Chairs and Party Specific Lists);  
 
(B) 
if the responding Appendix Party has not 
established a list under Article 28.11.9 (Roster of 
Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists), from the 
roster of panel chairs established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists); or  
 
(C) 
if the responding Appendix Party has not 
established a list under Article 28.11.9 (Roster of 
Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists) and no roster 
of panel chairs has been established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists), by random selection from a list of three 
candidates, 
who 
are 
not 
nationals 
of 
the 
complaining Appendix Party, nominated by the 
complaining Appendix Party,   
 
no later than 20 days after the date of delivery of the 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 6 
 
request for the establishment of a panel under paragraph 
4(a). 
 
(iv) 
For appointment of the third panellist, who shall serve as 
chair: 
 
 
 
(A) 
the Appendix Parties shall endeavour to agree on 
the appointment of a chair; 
 
(B) 
if the Appendix Parties fail to appoint a chair under 
subparagraph (b)(iv)(A) within a period of 15 days 
after the date of delivery of the request for the 
establishment of the panel under paragraph 4(a), the 
Appendix Parties shall select the chair by random 
selection from the roster established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists) within a period of 20 days after the date of 
delivery of the request for the establishment of the 
panel; or   
 
(C) 
if a roster has not been established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists), and subparagraphs (b)(iv)(A) and (B) cannot 
apply, each Appendix Party may nominate up to 
three candidates.  The chair shall be randomly 
selected from those candidates that are nominated 
within a period of 20 days after the date of delivery 
of the request for the establishment of a panel under 
paragraph 4(a). 
 
(D) 
The chair shall not be a national of either Appendix 
Party and any nationals of the Appendix Parties 
appointed to the roster established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists) shall be excluded from a selection process 
under subparagraph (b)(iv).       
 
(v)  
If a panellist selected under subparagraph (b)(iii) or (iv)(B) 
is unable to serve on the panel, the Appendix Parties shall 
meet no later than five days after the date of learning that 
the panellist is unavailable to select another panellist from 
among the remaining members of the list (in the case of 
subparagraph (b)(iii)) or the roster (in the case of 
subparagraph (b)(iv)(B)).   
 
(vi) 
If a panellist appointed under this paragraph resigns or 
becomes unable to serve on the panel, either during the 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 7 
 
course of proceeding or when the panel is reconvened 
under paragraph 13 or Article 28.21 (Compliance Review) 
as applied under paragraph 12, 17 or 18, a replacement 
panellist shall be appointed within 12 days in accordance 
with 
the 
selection 
procedures 
prescribed 
in 
this 
subparagraph for the appointment of the original panellist.  
The replacement shall have all the powers and duties of the 
original panellist.  The work of the panel shall be 
suspended pending the appointment of the replacement 
panellist, and all time frames set out in this Article and in 
the Rules of Procedure shall be extended by the amount of 
time that the work was suspended. 
 
(vii) 
Paragraphs 4, 5 and 10 of Article 28.9 (Composition of 
Panels) shall apply, mutatis mutandis,5 to the selection 
procedures. 
 
7. 
All panellists shall meet the requirements set out in Article 28.10.1 
(Qualifications of Panellists).  An individual shall not serve as a panellist for a 
dispute in which that person has participated under Article 28.6 (Good Offices, 
Conciliation, and Mediation) as applied pursuant to paragraph 8. 
 
8. 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, Article 28.4 (Choice of 
Forum), Article 28.6 (Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation), Article 28.12 
(Function of Panels), Article 28.15 (Role of Experts), Article 28.16 (Suspension 
or Termination of Proceedings), Article 28.17 (Initial Report) and Article 28.18 
(Final Report) shall apply, mutatis mutandis,6 to panel proceedings under this 
Article, except that:  
 
(a) 
with respect to Article 28.17.3 (Initial Report), the panel shall 
present an initial report to the Appendix Parties no later than 100 
days after the date of the appointment of the last panellist; 
 
(b) 
with respect to Article 28.17.4 (Initial Report), the panel shall also 
make a determination as to whether the non-conformity or the 
nullification or impairment, if any, has materially affected the sale, 
offering for sale, purchase, transportation, distribution or use of 
originating motor vehicles from the complaining Appendix Party; 
                                                 
5  For the purposes of subparagraph (b)(vii), the reference to “this Article” in Article 28.9.10 
(Composition of Panels) shall be deemed to read “this paragraph”. 
 
6  For the purposes of this paragraph, the reference to “Article 28.7 (Establishment of a Panel)” in 
Article 28.6.4 (Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation) shall be deemed to read “paragraph 4”, 
the references to “this Chapter” in Article 28.12.2 (Function of Panels) and Article 28.16.1 
(Suspension or Termination of Proceedings) shall be deemed to read “this Article” and the 
reference to “paragraph 3” in Article 28.17.5 (Initial Report) shall be deemed to read “paragraph 8 
(a)”.  
 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 8 
 
 
(c) 
with respect to Article 28.17.7 (Initial Report), an Appendix Party 
may submit written comments to the panel on its initial report no 
later than 10 days after the presentation of the initial report or 
within another period as the Appendix Parties may agree; and 
 
(d) 
with respect to Article 28.18.1 (Final Report), the panel shall 
present a final report to the Appendix Parties, including any 
separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, no later than 
20 days after presentation of the initial report.  After taking any 
steps to protect confidential information, and no later than 15 days 
after the presentation of the final report, the Appendix Parties shall 
release the final report to the public. 
 
9. 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, paragraphs 1 and 2 of 
Article 28.19 (Implementation of Final Report) shall apply, mutatis mutandis,7 to 
the implementation of the final report. 
 
10. 
(a) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, if in its final report 
the panel determines that: 
 
(i)        (A)  the measure at issue is inconsistent with an Appendix 
Party’s obligations in this Agreement; 
 
(B) an Appendix Party has otherwise failed to carry out its 
obligations in this Agreement; or 
 
(C)  the measure at issue is causing nullification or 
impairment within the meaning of Article 28.3.1(c) 
(Scope); 
and 
 
(ii) 
the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment that 
the panel has determined to exist has materially affected the 
sale, offering for sale, purchase, transportation, distribution 
or use of originating motor vehicles from the complaining 
Appendix Party, 
 
the complaining Appendix Party may suspend the application to the 
responding Appendix Party of benefits in accordance with this 
paragraph, paragraph 11 and paragraphs 13 through 16.  
 
(b) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, the responding 
Appendix Party shall have a reasonable period of time in which to 
                                                 
7  For the purposes of this paragraph, the reference to “this Chapter” in Article 28.19.1 
(Implementation of Final Report) shall be deemed to read “this Article”. 
 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 9 
 
eliminate the non-conformity or nullification or impairment if it is 
not practicable to do so immediately.  
 
(c) 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, the reasonable period 
of time shall be: 
 
(i) 
six months from the presentation of the final report under 
Article 28.18.1 (Final Report) as applied pursuant to 
paragraph 8; or 
 
(ii) 
if elimination of the non-conformity or nullification or 
impairment requires amendment of laws or regulations 
adopted by the Diet of Japan or the Parliament of Canada, 
or the legislative body of local subdivision, 12 months from 
the presentation of the final report. 
 
11. 
(a) 
The responding Appendix Party shall, if requested by the 
complaining Appendix Party, enter into negotiations with the 
complaining Appendix Party no later than 15 days after receipt of 
that request, with a view to developing mutually acceptable 
compensation, if: 
 
(i)  
the responding Appendix Party has notified the complaining 
Appendix Party that it does not intend to eliminate the non-
conformity or the nullification or impairment; or 
 
(ii)  
following the expiry of the reasonable period of time set out 
in paragraph 10(c), there is disagreement between the 
Appendix Parties as to whether the responding Appendix 
Party has eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification 
or impairment. 
 
(b) 
A complaining Appendix Party may suspend benefits in 
accordance with subparagraph (c) if the Appendix Parties have:  
 
(i) 
been unable to agree on compensation within a period of 30 
days after the period for developing compensation has 
begun in accordance with subparagraph (a); or 
 
(ii) 
agreed on compensation but the complaining Appendix 
Party considers that the responding Appendix Party has 
failed to observe the terms of the agreement. 
 
(c) 
A complaining Appendix Party may, at any time after the 
conditions set out in subparagraph (b) are met in relation to the 
complaining Appendix Party, provide a written notice to the 
responding Appendix Party that it intends to suspend benefits under 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 10 
 
paragraph 14 or 15.  The notice shall specify the level of benefits 
that the complaining Appendix Party proposes to suspend.  The 
complaining Appendix Party may begin suspending benefits in 
accordance with paragraph 14 or 15 after the date on which it 
provides the notice. 
 
(d) 
Compensation and suspension of benefits shall be temporary 
measures.  None of these measures is preferred to full 
implementation through elimination of the non-conformity or the 
nullification or impairment.  Compensation and suspension of 
benefits shall only be applied until the responding Appendix Party 
has eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification or 
impairment, or until a mutually satisfactory solution is reached. 
 
12. 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, if in its final report the panel 
determines that the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment that the 
panel has determined to exist under paragraph 10(a)(i) has not materially affected 
the sale, offering for sale, purchase, transportation, distribution or use of 
originating motor vehicles from the complaining Appendix Party, the procedures 
provided for in paragraphs 3 through 7 of Article 28.19 (Implementation of Final 
Report), Article 28.20 (Non-Implementation – Compensation and Suspension of 
Benefits) and Article 28.21 (Compliance Review) shall apply, mutatis mutandis. 
 
13. 
(a) 
If the responding Appendix Party considers that: 
 
(i) 
the level of benefits proposed to be suspended under 
paragraph 15 is manifestly excessive; or 
 
(ii) 
it has eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification or 
impairment that the panel has determined to exist, 
 
 
it may, no later than 30 days after the date of delivery of the written notice 
provided by the complaining Appendix Party under paragraph 11(c), 
request that the panel be reconvened to consider the matter.  The 
responding Appendix Party shall deliver its request in writing to the 
complaining Appendix Party.  The panel shall reconvene as soon as 
possible after the date of delivery of the request and shall present its 
determination to the Appendix Parties no later than 90 days after delivery 
of the request.  
 
(b) 
If the panel determines that the level of benefits the complaining 
Appendix Party proposes to suspend under paragraph 15 is 
manifestly excessive, it shall determine the level of benefits that the 
complaining Appendix Party may suspend.  The panel shall 
determine: 
 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 11 
 
(i) 
the level of benefits of equivalent effect, as set out in 
Article 28.20.5 (Non-Implementation – Compensation and 
Suspension of Benefits); and 
 
(ii) 
if the prevailing most-favoured-nation applied rate of 
customs duty imposed by the complaining Appendix Party 
on motor vehicles classified under heading 87.03 is zero per 
cent, the level of benefits equivalent to the effect of 
application by the responding Appendix Party of its 
prevailing most-favoured-nation applied rate of customs 
duty on motor vehicles classified under heading 87.03. 
 
14. 
Unless the panel has determined that the responding Appendix Party has 
eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment, 30 days after the 
later of:  
 
(a) 
the date on which the complaining Appendix Party provides the 
notice under paragraph 11(c); or 
 
(b) 
if the responding Appendix Party requests that the panel be 
reconvened to consider the matter under paragraph 13(a)(ii), the 
date that the panel issues its determination under paragraph 13, 
 
the complaining Appendix Party may increase the rate of customs duty on 
originating motor vehicles from the responding Appendix Party classified 
under heading 87.03 to a level not to exceed the prevailing most-favoured-
nation applied rate of customs duty on those motor vehicles, for a period 
of up to 100 days following the 30-day period.  
 
15. 
Unless the panel has determined that the responding Appendix Party has 
eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment:  
 
(a) 
if the panel determines the level of benefits under paragraph 13(b), 
30 days after the later of the date on which the complaining 
Appendix Party provides the notice under paragraph 11(c) or the 
date that the panel issues its determination under paragraph 13, the 
complaining Appendix Party may: 
 
(i) 
increase the rate of customs duty on originating motor 
vehicles from the responding Appendix Party classified 
under heading 87.03 up to the level the panel has 
determined under paragraph 13(b)(i); or 
 
(ii) 
if the prevailing most-favoured-nation applied rate of 
customs duty imposed by the complaining Appendix Party 
on motor vehicles under heading 87.03 is zero per cent, 
suspend the application to the responding Appendix Party 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 12 
 
of benefits with respect to originating goods from the 
responding Appendix Party: 
 
(A) 
up to the level the panel has determined under 
paragraph 13(b)(i); and 
 
(B) 
up to the level the panel has determined under 
paragraph 13(b)(ii) for a period of up to 100 days 
following the 30-day period, 
and 
 
(b)  
if the responding Appendix Party does not request that the panel be 
reconvened to consider the matter under paragraph 13(a)(i) or the 
panel has not determined the level under paragraph 13(b), after the 
30-day period, the complaining Appendix Party may suspend the 
application to the responding Appendix Party of benefits up to the 
level the complaining Appendix Party has proposed to suspend 
under paragraph 11(c),  
 
provided that the increased rate of customs duty applied to any goods 
under this paragraph shall not exceed the prevailing most-favoured-nation 
applied rate of customs duty on such goods. 
 
16. 
As long as the complaining Appendix Party is applying the increased rate 
of customs duty under paragraph 14, it shall not suspend the application to the 
responding Appendix Party of benefits under paragraph 15. 
 
17. 
Unless the Appendix Parties agree otherwise, Article 28.21 (Compliance 
Review) shall apply, mutatis mutandis,8 to compliance review. 
 
18. 
If a final report is presented after the 10-year period beginning on the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement, the procedures provided for in paragraphs 3 
through 7 of Article 28.19 (Implementation of Final Report), Article 28.20 (Non-
Implementation – Compensation and Suspension of Benefits) and Article 28.21 
(Compliance Review) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, in lieu of the procedures 
provided for in paragraphs 10 through 17. 
 
 
Article 59  
 
                                                 
8  For the purposes of this paragraph, the references to “Article 28.20 (Non-Implementation – 
Compensation and Suspension of Benefits)” in Article 28.21 (Compliance Review) shall be 
deemed to read “paragraphs 11 and 13 through 16”. 
 
9  No Appendix Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 28 (Dispute 
Settlement) or Article 4 for any matter arising under this Article. 
ANNEX 2-D – APPENDIX D – CANADA – 13 
 
1. 
The Appendix Parties hereby establish a special bilateral Committee on 
Motor Vehicles (Committee), composed of representatives of the relevant 
authorities of each Appendix Party.  The Committee shall: 
 
(a) 
monitor implementation of the obligations in this Agreement with 
respect to motor vehicles; 
 
(b) 
consult to resolve issues affecting trade and investment between 
the Appendix Parties that an Appendix Party raises with respect to 
the development and implementation of measures relating to motor 
vehicles and motor vehicle parts; 
 
(c) 
facilitate increased cooperation with respect to emerging issues, 
including the manufacture, importation, sale and operation of 
motor vehicles using alternative fuels, and cooperation between the 
Appendix Parties with respect to issues concerning other markets; 
 
(d) 
monitor bilateral, regional and global market developments and 
trends in trade, investment, production, sales and distribution with 
respect to motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts; 
 
(e) 
provide opportunities for input from interested persons of the 
Appendix Parties on matters relevant to the Committee’s work, as 
the Appendix Parties may agree; and 
 
(f) 
address other issues, if the Appendix Parties agree. 
 
2. 
The Committee shall meet at mutually agreed times.  Meetings shall take 
place in such locations and through such means as the Appendix Parties decide.  
