 
 
ANNEX 2-D  
 
TARIFF SCHEDULE OF MALAYSIA 
 
 
GENERAL NOTES 
 
 
1.  The provisions of this Schedule are generally expressed in terms of the 
Malaysian  Customs  Duties  Order  (MCDO),  and  the  interpretation  of  the 
provisions of this Schedule, including the product coverage of subheadings of this 
Schedule, shall be governed by the General Notes, Section Notes and Chapter 
Notes of the MCDO.  To the extent that provisions of this Schedule are identical 
to the corresponding provisions of MCDO, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
have the same meaning as the corresponding provisions of MCDO. 
 
2.  The base rates of duty set out in this Schedule reflect Malaysia’s Most-
Favoured-Nation (MFN) rates of duty in effect on January 1, 2010. 
 
3.  In  this  Schedule,  rates  of  duty  expressed  in  monetary  units  shall  be 
rounded down to the nearest hundredth of a Malaysian Ringgit. 
 
4.  The following staging categories shall apply to the elimination of customs 
duties by Malaysia pursuant to Article 2.4.2 (Elimination of Customs Duties): 
 
(a)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in staging category EIF  shall be eliminated entirely, and these 
goods shall be duty-free on the  date  of  entry  into force of this 
Agreement for Malaysia;  
 
(b)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in staging category B3 shall be eliminated in three annual stages, 
and these goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year 3; 
 
(c)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in staging category B6 shall be eliminated in six annual stages, 
and these goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year 6; 
 
(d)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in  staging category B8 shall be eliminated in eight annual stages, 
and these goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year 8; 
 
(e)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in staging category B11 shall be eliminated in 11 annual stages, 
and these goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year 11; 
ANNEX 2-D – GENERAL NOTES – MALAYSIA – 1 
  
(f)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in staging category B13 shall be eliminated in 13 annual stages, 
and these goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year 13; 
 
(g)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided for in the items 
in staging category B16 shall be eliminated in 16 annual stages, 
and these goods shall be duty-free effective January 1 of year 16; 
and 
 
(h)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category TRQ shall be governed by the terms of the TRQ 
applicable to that tariff item, as outlined in Appendix A (Tariff 
Rate Quotas of Malaysia) to Malaysia’s Schedule to Annex 2-D .  
 
5.  The  annual  stages  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  for  the  elimination  or 
reduction of customs duties shall be equal, annual stages, except: 
 
(a)  as provided in paragraphs 3(b)(i), 4(a)(ii) and 4(b)(ii) in Section A 
of this Annex; or 
 
(b)  as otherwise provided in paragraph 4. 
 
ANNEX 2-D – GENERAL NOTES – MALAYSIA – 2 
 