 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A 
 
SCHEDULE OF CHILE 
 
 
SECTION A: Central Government Entities 
 
 
Thresholds: 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to procurement by the Central 
Level of Government Entities listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is 
estimated, in accordance with Section H (Threshold Adjustment Formula), to equal or exceed 
the following relevant threshold: 
 
(a)  for procurement of goods and services    95,000 SDRs 
 
(b)  for procurement of construction services    5,000,000 SDRs 
 
2.  The monetary thresholds set out in paragraph 1 shall be adjusted in accordance with 
Section H (Threshold Adjustment Formula) of this Schedule. 
 
 
List of Entities: 
 
1.  Ejecutivo (Executive) 
(a)  Presidencia de la República (Office of the President of the Republic) 
(b)  Ministerio del Interior y Seguridad Pública (Ministry of Interior and Public 
Security) 
(c)  Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
(d)  Ministerio de Defensa Nacional (Ministry of National Defense) 
(e)  Ministerio de Hacienda (Ministry of Finance) 
(f)  Ministerio  Secretaría  General  de  la  Presidencia  (Ministry  of  the  General 
Secretariat of the President’s Office) 
(g)  Ministerio  Secretaría  General  de  Gobierno  (Ministry  of  the  General 
Secretariat of Government) 
(h)  Ministerio  de  Economía,  Fomento  y  Turismo  (Ministry  of  Economy, 
Development and Tourism) 
(i)  Ministerio de Minería (Ministry of Mining) 
(j)  Ministerio de Energía (Ministry of Energy) 
(k)  Ministerio de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)  
(l)  Ministerio de Educación (Ministry of Education) 
(m)  Ministerio de Justicia (Ministry of Justice) 
(n)  Ministerio  del  Trabajo  y  Previsión  Social  (Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social 
Welfare) 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 1  
(o)  Ministerio de Obras Públicas (Ministry of Public Works) 
(p)  Ministerio de Transportes y Telecomunicaciones (Ministry of Transport and 
Telecommunications) 
(q)  Ministerio de Salud (Ministry of Health) 
(r)  Ministerio  de  Vivienda  y  Urbanismo  (Ministry  of  Housing  and  Urban 
Development) 
(s)  Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales (Ministry of National Assets) 
(t)  Ministerio de Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture) 
(u)  Ministerio del Medio Ambiente (Ministry of Environment) 
(v)  Ministerio del Deporte (Ministry of Sport) 
(w)  Servicio Nacional de la Mujer (National Women’s Service) 
(x)  Consejo Nacional de la Cultura y las Artes (National Council for Culture and 
the Arts) 
 
 
Note to Section A  
 
  Unless otherwise specified within this Section, all agencies subordinate to those listed 
are covered by this Agreement.  
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 2  
 
 
SECTION B: Sub-Central Government Entities 
 
 
Thresholds: 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to procurement by the Sub-Central 
Level of Government Entities listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is 
estimated, in accordance with Section H (Threshold Adjustment Formula), to equal or exceed 
the following relevant threshold: 
 
(a)  for procurement of goods and services    200,000 SDRs 
 
(b)  for procurement of construction services    5,000,000 SDRs 
 
2.  The monetary thresholds set out in paragraph 1 shall be adjusted in accordance with 
Section H (Threshold Adjustment Formula) of this Schedule. 
 
 
List of Entities: 
 
1.   Gobiernos Regionales (Regional Governments) 
 
(a)  Intendencia Región de Arica y Parinacota (Intendancy of Arica y Parinacota 
Region) 
(b)  Gobernación de Arica (Governor’s Office - Arica) 
(c)  Gobernación de Parinacota (Governor’s Office - Parinacota) 
 
(d)  Intendencia Región de Tarapacá (Intendancy of Tarapacá Region) 
(e)  Gobernación de Iquique (Governor’s Office - Iquique) 
(f)  Gobernación de Tamarugal (Governor’s Office - Tamarugal) 
 
(g)  Intendencia Región de Antofagasta (Intendancy of Antofagasta Region) 
(h)  Gobernación de Antofagasta (Governor’s Office – Antofagasta) 
(i)  Gobernación de Loa (Governor’s Office – Loa) 
(j)  Gobernación de Tocopilla (Governor’s Office – Tocopilla) 
 
(k)  Intendencia Región de Atacama (Intendancy of Atacama Región) 
(l)  Gobernación de Copiapó (Governor’s Office – Copiapó) 
(m)  Gobernación de Huasco (Governor’s Office – Huasco) 
(n)  Gobernación de Chañaral (Governor’s Office – Chañaral) 
 
(o)  Intendencia Región de Coquimbo (Intendancy of Coquimbo Region) 
(p)  Gobernación de El Elqui (Governor’s Office – El Elqui) 
(q)  Gobernación de Limarí (Governor’s Office - Limarí) 
(r)  Gobernación de Choapa (Governor’s Office – Choapa) 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 3  
 
(s)  Intendencia Región de Valparaíso (Intendancy of Valparaíso Region) 
(t)  Gobernación de Valparaíso (Governor’s Office - Valparaíso) 
(u)  Gobernación de Quillota (Governor’s Office - Quillota) 
(v)  Gobernación de San Antonio (Governor’s Office – San Antonio) 
(w)  Gobernación de San Felipe (Governor’s Office – San Felipe) 
(x)  Gobernación de Los Andes (Governor’s Office – Los Andes) 
(y)  Gobernación de Petorca (Governor’s Office - Petorca) 
(z)  Gobernación de Isla de Pascua (Governor’s Office –Isla de Pascua) 
 
(aa)  Intendencia  Región  del  Libertador  Bernardo  O´Higgins  (Intendancy  of 
Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins Region)  
(bb)  Gobernación de Cachapoal (Governor’s Office - Cachapoal) 
(cc)  Gobernación de Colchagua (Governor’s Office - Colchagua) 
(dd)  Gobernación de Cardenal Caro (Governor’s Office – Cardenal Caro) 
 
(ee)  Intendencia Región del Maule (Intendancy of Maule Region) 
(ff)  Gobernación de Curicó (Governor’s Office -Curicó) 
(gg)  Gobernación de Talca (Governor’s Office - Talca) 
(hh)  Gobernación de Linares (Governor’s Office - Linares) 
(ii)  Gobernación de Cauquenes (Governor’s Office - Cauquenes) 
 
(jj)  Intendencia Región del Bío Bío (Intendancy of Bío Bío Region) 
(kk)  Gobernación de Concepción (Governor’s Office - Concepción) 
(ll)  Gobernación de Ñuble (Governor’s Office - Ñuble) 
(mm)  Gobernación de Bío Bío (Governor’s Office – Bío Bío) 
(nn)  Gobernación de Arauco (Governor’s Office - Arauco) 
 
(oo)  Intendencia Región de La Araucanía (Intendancy of La Araucanía Region) 
(pp)  Gobernación de Cautín (Governor’s Office -Cautín) 
(qq)  Gobernación de Malleco (Governor’s Office - Malleco) 
 
(rr)  Intendencia Región de Los Ríos (Intendancy of Los Ríos Region) 
(ss)  Gobernación de Valdivia (Governor’s Office - Valdivia) 
(tt)  Gobernación de Ranco (Governor’s Office - Ranco) 
 
(uu)  Intendencia Región de Los Lagos (Intendancy of Los Lagos Region) 
(vv)  Gobernación de Llanquihue (Governor’s Office - Llanquihue) 
(ww)  Gobernación de Osorno (Governor’s Office - Osorno) 
(xx)  Gobernación de Chiloé (Governor’s Office - Chiloé) 
(yy)  Gobernación de Palena (Governor’s Office - Palena) 
 
(zz)  Intendencia  Región  de  Aysén  del  General  Carlos  Ibañez  del  Campo 
(Intendancy of Aysén del General Carlos Ibáñez del Campo Region) 
(aaa)  Gobernación de Coihaique (Governor’s Office - Coihaique) 
(bbb)  Gobernación de Puerto Aysén (Governor’s Office –Puerto Aysén) 
(ccc)  Gobernación de General Carrera (Governor’s Office – General Carrera) 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 4  
(ddd)  Gobernación de Capitán Prat (Governor’s Office – Capitán Prat) 
 
(eee)  Intendencia Región de Magallanes y de la Antártica Chilena (Intendancy of 
Magallanes y de la Antártica Chilena Region)  
(fff)  Gobernación de Magallanes (Governor’s Office - Magallanes) 
(ggg)  Gobernación de Última Esperanza (Governor’s Office - Última Esperanza) 
(hhh)  Gobernación de Tierra del Fuego (Governor’s Office – Tierra del Fuego) 
(iii)  Gobernación de Antártica Chilena (Governor’s Office – Antártica Chilena) 
 
(jjj)  Intendencia Región Metropolitana (Intendancy of Metropolitan Region) 
(kkk)  Gobernación de Maipo (Governor’s Office - Maipo) 
(lll)  Gobernación de Cordillera (Governor’s Office - Cordillera) 
(mmm)  Gobernación de Talagante (Governor’s Office - Talagante) 
(nnn)  Gobernación de Melipilla (Governor’s Office - Melipilla) 
(ooo)  Gobernación de Chacabuco (Governor’s Office - Chacabuco) 
(ppp)  Gobernación de Santiago (Governor’s Office - Santiago) 
 
 
2.  All Municipalities 
 
 
Note to Section B 
 
  Chile offers the entities listed under this Section only to those Parties that assume 
equivalent commitments at the sub-central level1.  In the case of the Parties that currently do 
not have entities at this level of government, Chile could extend the benefits of this Section to 
the Parties that make improvements to their respective coverage under Section A or C.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
1  For greater certainty, Chile is not extending sub-central coverage to Brunei Darussalam, Malaysia, New 
Zealand, the United States and Viet Nam.   
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 5  
 
 
SECTION C: Other Entities 
 
 
Thresholds: 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to entities listed in this Section 
where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with Section H (Threshold 
Adjustment Formula), to equal or exceed:  
 
(a)   for procurement of goods and services    220,000 SDRs 
 
(b)   for procurement of construction services     5,000,000 SDRs 
 
2.  The monetary thresholds set out in paragraph 1 shall be adjusted in accordance with 
Section H (Threshold Adjustment Formula) of this Schedule. 
 
3.  This Section shall cover only those entities specifically listed below. 
 
 
List of Entities: 
 
1.  Empresa Portuaria Arica (Arica Port Company) 
2.  Empresa Portuaria Iquique (Iquique Port Company) 
3.  Empresa Portuaria Antofagasta (Antofagasta Port Company) 
4.  Empresa Portuaria Coquimbo (Coquimbo Port Company) 
5.  Empresa Portuaria Valparaíso (Valparaiso Port Company) 
6.  Empresa Portuaria San Antonio (San Antonio Port Company) 
7.  Empresa Portuaria Talcahuano San Vicente (Talcahuano San Vicente Port Company) 
8.  Empresa Portuaria Puerto Montt (Puerto Montt Port Company) 
9.  Empresa Portuaria Chacabuco (Chacabuco Port Company) 
10.  Empresa Portuaria Austral (Austral Port Company) 
11.  Aeropuertos  de  propiedad  del  Estado,  dependientes  de  la  Dirección  General  de 
Aeronáutica Civil (State-owned Airports, dependent on the General Directorate for 
Civil Aeronautics) 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 6  
 
 
SECTION D: Goods  
 
 
  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  apply  to  all  goods  procured  by  the 
entities listed in Sections A, B and C, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement), including this Schedule.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 7  
 
 
SECTION E: Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 8  
 
 
SECTION F: Construction Services 
 
 
1.   Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  apply  to  all  construction  services 
procured by the entities listed in Sections A, B and C, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 
15 (Government Procurement), including this Schedule.  
 
2.  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  not  apply  to  construction  services 
intended for Isla de Pascua (Easter Island).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 9  
 
 
SECTION G: General Notes 
 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to any form of preference to 
benefit micro, small and medium sized enterprises. 
 
2.  For greater certainty, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  procurement by a procuring entity from another government entity; and 
 
(b)  procurement by a procuring entity on behalf of an entity not listed in this 
Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 10  
 
 
SECTION H: Threshold Adjustment Formula 
 
 
1.  The threshold shall be adjusted in every even-numbered year with each adjustment 
taking effect on January 1, beginning on January 1 of first even-numbered year after the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement for Chile.  
 
2.  Every two years, Chile shall calculate and publish the value of the thresholds under 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) expressed in Chilean pesos.  These calculations shall 
be based on the conversion rates published by the International Monetary Fund in its monthly 
International Financial Statistics.  
 
3.  The conversion rates shall be the average of the daily values of the Chilean peso in 
terms of the Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) over the two-year period preceding October 1 of 
the year before the adjusted thresholds are to take effect.  
 
4.  Chile shall consult if a major change in its national currency relative to the SDRs or to 
the national currency of another Party were to create a significant problem with regard to the 
application of Chapter 15 (Government Procurement). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 11  
 
 
SECTION I: Procurement Information 
 
 
All information on government procurements is published on the following websites: 
 
www.chilecompra.cl 
 
www.mercadopublico.cl 
 
www.mop.cl 
 
www.diarioficial.cl 
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 12  
 
 
SECTION J: Transitional Measures 
 
 
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX 15-A – CHILE – 13 