 
 
ANNEX 2-D 
 
TARIFF SCHEDULE OF AUSTRALIA 
 
 
GENERAL NOTES 
 
 
1.  The provisions of this Schedule are generally expressed in terms of the 
corresponding items in Schedule 3 to the Customs Tariff Act 1995 (Cth) (Tariff 
Act),  and  the  interpretation  of  the  provisions  of  this Schedule,  including  the 
product coverage of subheadings of this Schedule, shall be governed by the Tariff 
Act.    To  the  extent  that  provisions  of  this  Schedule  are  identical  to  the 
corresponding provisions of the Tariff Act, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
have the same meaning as the corresponding provisions of the Tariff Act. 
 
2.   The base rates of duty set out in this Schedule reflect Australia’s Most-
Favoured-Nation (MFN) rates of duty in effect on January 1, 2010. 
 
3.  The  following  staging  categories  shall  apply  to  the  elimination  or 
reduction  of  customs  duties  by  Australia  pursuant  to  Article  2.4.2 
(Elimination of Customs Duties): 
 
(a)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category EIF shall be eliminated entirely, and these goods 
shall be duty-free on the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
for Australia; 
 
(b)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category AU3-A shall be immediately reduced to two per 
cent and shall then be reduced to one per cent on January 1 of year 
2, and shall be eliminated and these goods shall be duty-free from 
January 1 of Year 3; 
 
(c)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category AU3-B shall be immediately reduced to five per 
cent and shall remain at that level for year 1 through December 31 
of year 2, and shall be eliminated and these goods shall be duty-
free from January 1 of year 3; 
 
(d)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category AU3-C shall remain at the base rate and at that 
level for year 1 through December 31 of year 2.  The customs 
duties on these goods shall be eliminated and these goods shall be 
duty-free from January 1 of year 3; 
ANNEX 2-D – GENERAL NOTES – AUSTRALIA – 1 
  
(e)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category B4 shall be eliminated in four annual stages and 
these goods shall be duty-free from January 1 of year 4; 
 
(f)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging category AU4-A shall be reduced to five per cent and shall 
remain at that level for year 1 through December 31 of year 3.  The 
customs duties on these goods shall be eliminated and these goods 
shall be duty-free from January 1 of year 4; 
 
(g)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in 
staging  category  AU4-B  shall  remain  at  the  base  rate  until 
December 31 of year 3.  The customs duties on these goods shall 
be eliminated and these goods shall be duty-free from January 1 of 
year 4; and 
 
(h)  the ad valorem component of the customs duties on originating 
goods provided for in the items in staging category AU-R1 shall be 
eliminated on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for 
Australia.  The non-ad valorem component of the customs duty on 
these goods shall be maintained. 
 
4.  The  annual  stages  referred  to  in  paragraph  3  for  the  elimination  or 
reduction of customs duties shall be equal, annual stages, except: 
 
(a)  as provided in paragraphs 3(b)(i), 4(a)(ii) and 4(b)(ii) in Section A 
of this Annex; or 
 
(b)  as otherwise provided in paragraph 3. 
 
5.  (a)   Upon request  from  Japan, Australia and Japan shall consult  to 
consider Australia’s commitments to Japan regarding treatment of 
originating goods related to the application of customs duties, tariff 
rate quotas and safeguards in this Schedule no sooner than seven 
years  after  the  date  of  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement  for 
Australia and Japan, with a view to increasing market access. 
 
  (b)   Following completion of applicable legal procedures by Australia 
and another State or customs territory necessary for entry into force 
of an international agreement, or an amendment thereto, granting 
preferential  market  access  by  Australia  to  that  other  State  or 
customs territory, and on request of Japan, Australia and Japan 
shall  consult  to  consider  Australia’s  commitments  to  Japan 
regarding treatment of originating goods related to the application 
of  customs  duties,  tariff  rate  quotas  and  safeguards  in  this 
Schedule,  with  a  view  to  providing  to  the  originating  goods 
ANNEX 2-D – GENERAL NOTES – AUSTRALIA – 2 
 treatment equivalent to that provided to goods classified in the 
same tariff lines under the international agreement.  Australia and 
Japan shall consult no later than one month after the date of the 
request, unless Australia and Japan agree otherwise. 
 
  (c)   For greater certainty, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed 
to affect the rights or obligations of Australia under any other 
provision of this Agreement. 
ANNEX 2-D – GENERAL NOTES – AUSTRALIA – 3 
 