 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 1 
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF CHILE 
 
 
HEADNOTES 
 
1. 
Commitments in the financial services sector under Chapter 11 (Financial Services) 
are undertaken subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in these headnotes and the 
Schedule below. 
 
2. 
Juridical persons supplying financial services and constituted under the laws of Chile 
are subject to non-discriminatory limitations on juridical form.  For example, partnerships 
(sociedades de personas) are generally not acceptable juridical forms for financial institutions 
in Chile.  This headnote is not in and of itself intended to affect or otherwise limit a choice by 
a financial institution of the other Party between branches and subsidiaries. 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 2 
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
Section A 
 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector:  
 
Banking and other financial services  
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors (Article 11.9) 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Measures: 
Ley N° 18.045, Official Gazette of October 22, 1981, Ley de 
Mercado de Valores, Titles VI and VII, Articles 24, 26 and 27 
 
 
Description: 
The directors, administrators, managers or legal representatives 
of legal entities or natural persons performing the activities of 
stockbroker and securities agent, must be Chileans or foreigners 
with a permanent residence permit. 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 3 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector:  
 
Banking and other financial services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Measures:  
Ley N° 18.657, Official Gazette of September 29, 1987, Ley de 
Fondos de Inversión de Capital Extranjero, Titles I and II, 
Articles 12, 14 and 18 
Ley N° 18.046, Official Gazette of October 22, 1981, Ley de 
Sociedades Anónimas, Title XIII, Articles 126 to 132 
Ley N° 18.045, Official Gazette of October 22, 1981, Ley de 
Mercado de Valores, Title XXVII, Articles 220 to 238 
 
 
Description: 
The capital of a foreign capital investment fund (FICE) may not 
be remitted abroad until five years from the date in which the 
contribution was made, or three years in the specific case of 
venture capital foreign investment funds. 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 4 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Measures: 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley N° 251, Official Gazette of May 22, 
1931, Ley de Seguros, Title I, Article 16 
 
 
Description: 
Reinsurance brokerage can be performed by foreign reinsurance 
brokers.  These brokers shall be juridical persons, demonstrate 
that the entity is legally organised in its country of origin and 
authorised to intermediate risks ceded from abroad, and provide 
the date that such authorisation was granted.  Such entities shall 
designate a representative in Chile to represent them with broad 
powers.  The representative may be subject to summons and 
must have residence in Chile.  
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 5 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors (Article 11.9) 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
 
 
Measures: 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley 251, Official Gazette of May 22, 
1931, Ley de Seguros, Title III, Articles 58, 62 
Decreto Supremo N° 863 de 1989 del Ministerio de Hacienda, 
Official Gazette of April 5, 1990, Reglamento de los Auxiliares 
del Comercio de Seguros, Title I, Article 2, letter (c) 
 
 
Description: 
Administrators and legal representatives of legal entities and 
natural persons performing the activity of claim settlement and 
insurance brokerage must be Chileans or foreigners with a 
permanent residence permit.  
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 6 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector:  
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Measures: 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley N° 251, Official Gazette of May 22, 
1931, Ley de Seguros, Title I, Article 20 
 
 
Description: 
In the case of the types of insurance covered in Decreto Ley 
3.500, involving the cession of reinsurance to foreign reinsurers, 
the deduction for reinsurance cannot exceed 40 per cent of the 
total of the technical reserves associated with those types of 
insurance or a higher percentage if set by the Superintendence of 
Securities and Insurance (Superintendencia de Valores y 
Seguros). 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 7 
 
Sector: 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Measures: 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley Nº 251, Diario Oficial, Mayo 22, 
1931, Ley de Seguros, Title I 
 
 
Description: 
The reinsurance activity may be provided by foreign entities 
classified, according to risk rating agencies of international well-
known reputation as indicated by the Superintendence of 
Securities and Insurance (Superintendencia de Valores y 
Seguros), at least in the risk category BBB or other equivalent to 
it.  These entities shall have a representative in Chile who will 
represent them with broad powers.  The representative may be 
subject to summons.  Notwithstanding the aforementioned, the 
designation of a representative will not be necessary if a 
reinsurer broker, registered on the records of the 
Superintendence, carries out the reinsurance operation.  For all 
purposes, especially for those relating to the application and 
performance in the country of the reinsurance contract, this 
broker shall be considered the legal representative of the 
reinsurers. 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 8 
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
Section B 
 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector:  
 
All 
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Description: 
The purchase of financial services, by persons located in the 
territory of Chile and its nationals wherever located, from 
financial services suppliers of another Party shall be subject to 
the exchange rate regulations adopted or maintained by the 
Banco Central de Chile in accordance with its Organic Law (Ley 
18.840). 
 
 
Existing Measures: 
Ley 18.840, Official Gazette of October 10, 1989, Ley Orgánica 
Constitucional del Banco Central de Chile, Title III 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 9 
 
Sector: 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
Banking and other financial services  
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
 
 
Description: 
Chile may grant advantages or exclusive rights to Banco del 
Estado de Chile, a Chilean state-owned bank, including but not 
limited to the following: the management of the Chilean 
government financial resources is made only through deposits in 
the Cuenta Única Fiscal and in its subsidiary accounts, all of 
which must be kept at Banco del Estado de Chile.  
 
 
Existing Measures: 
Decreto Ley N° 2.079, Official Gazette of January 18, 1978, Ley 
Orgánica del Banco del Estado de Chile 
Decreto Ley N° 1.263, Official Gazette of November 28, 1975, 
Decreto Ley Orgánico de Administración Financiera del 
Estado, Article 6 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 10 
 
Sector: 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
 
 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Description: 
All types of insurance that Chilean law makes or may make 
compulsory, and all insurance related to social security, cannot 
be contracted outside Chile.  This reservation shall not apply to 
the types of insurance included in Chile’s commitments listed in 
Annex 11-A (Cross-Border Trade), paragraph 1(a). 
 
 
Existing Measures: 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley N° 251, Official Gazette of May 22, 
1931, Ley de Seguros, Title I, Article 4 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 11 
 
Sector: 
 
 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
 
Social services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  
Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
 
 
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
 
 
 
Description: 
Chile reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with 
respect to the provision of public law enforcement and 
correctional services, and the following services to the extent 
that they are social services established or maintained for 
reasons of public interest: income security or insurance, social 
security or insurance, social welfare, public education, public 
training, health care and child care. 
 
 
Existing Measures: 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 12 
 
Sector: 
Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector: 
All 
 
 
Obligations Concerned: 
Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
  
 
 
Level of Government: 
Central 
 
 
Description: 
Chile reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with 
respect to Article 11.5 (Market Access for Financial 
Institutions), except for the following sectors, subsectors and 
financial services defined in accordance with the relevant 
Chilean legislation and subject to the terms, limitations and 
conditions specified below: 
 
All subsectors 
 
1.  
The Chilean financial services sector is partially compartmentalised, that is to say the 
institutions, domestic and foreign, authorised to operate as banks may not participate directly in the 
insurance and securities business and vice versa.  However, subject to authorisation from the 
Superintendence of Banks and Financial Institutions (Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones 
Financieras, SBIF), domestic and foreign banks operating in Chile may set up subsidiaries, to supply 
other financial services in addition to their main line of business.   
 
2.  
Chile reserves the right to adopt measures to regulate financial conglomerates, including the 
entities forming part of it. 
  
3.  
The term “CPC” means the Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical paper 
Series M, No. 77, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the 
United Nations, New York (1991)). 
 
Subsector 
 
Limitation on Market Access 
 
1.  
Banking Services: 
 
(a) Core banking services and bank 
operations: 
 
 acceptance of deposits 
(includes only current bank accounts 
(cuentas corrientes bancarias), sight 
 
Foreign banking institutions must be banking 
companies (sociedades bancarias) legally constituted 
in their country of origin and must put up the capital 
required by Chilean law. 
 
Foreign banking institutions may only operate: 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 13 
deposits, time deposits, savings 
accounts, financial instruments with 
repurchase agreements, and warranty 
deposits or surety bonds); 
 credit granting 
(includes only ordinary loans, 
consumer credit, loans in letters of 
credit, mortgage loans, mortgage 
loans in letters of credit, purchase of 
financial instruments with resale 
agreements, credit for issue of bank 
surety bonds or other types of 
financing, issue and negotiation of 
letters of credit for imports and 
exports, issue and confirmation of 
stand-by letters of credit); 
 purchase of publicly-offered 
securities (includes only purchase of 
bonds, purchase of letters of credit, 
subscription and placement as agents 
of shares, bonds and letters of credit 
(underwriting)); 
 issue and operation of credit cards 
(CPC 81133) (includes only credit 
cards issued in Chile); 
 issue and operation of debit cards; 
 travellers’ cheques; 
 transfer of funds (bank drafts); 
 discounting or acquisition of bills of 
exchange and promissory notes; 
 endorsement and guarantee of third 
party liabilities in Chilean currency 
and foreign currency; 
 securities custody; 
 exchange market operations carried 
out according to the regulations 
issued or to be issued by the Central 
Bank of Chile; 
 operations with derivatives 
authorised or to be authorised by the 
Central Bank of Chile 
(includes only forwards and swaps of 
currency and interest rate); and 
 acceptance and execution of fiduciary 
operations. 
 
 
(a) through shareholdings in Chilean banks 
established as corporations in Chile; 
 
(b) by becoming established as a corporation in 
Chile; 
 
(c) as branches of foreign corporations, in 
which case the legal personality in the country 
of origin is recognised.  For the purposes of 
foreign bank branch operations in Chile, the 
capital effectively invested in Chile is 
considered, and not that of the main office.  
The increases of capital or reserves that do not 
come from capitalisation of other reserves, will 
have the same treatment as the initial capital 
and reserves.  In the transactions between a 
branch and its main office abroad, both will be 
considered as independent entities.   
 
No national or foreign, natural or legal, person may 
acquire directly or through third parties shares in a 
bank which, alone or added to the shares such a 
person already possesses, represent more than 10 per 
cent of the bank’s capital without having first obtained 
the authorisation of the SBIF.  In addition, the partners 
or shareholders of a financial institution may not 
transfer a percentage of rights or shares in their 
company in excess of 10 per cent without having 
obtained authorisation from the SBIF. 
 
(b) Complementary banking services. 
The supply of financial services that complement core 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 14 
 
 
 
 
banking services may be provided directly by these 
institutions, with prior authorisation from the SBIF, or 
through subsidiaries which the SBIF shall determine. 
(i) Financial leasing (CPC 81120) 
(includes only leasing contracts for goods 
acquired at the client's request, i.e. they 
cannot acquire goods in order to stock them 
and offer them for leasing). 
 
(ii) Factoring. 
 
Financial leasing and factoring services are regarded 
as complementary banking services and, 
consequently, the SBIF is empowered to extend or 
restrict the operation of the services which these 
institutions may offer, and these institutions may only 
offer the services expressly authorised by the SBIF. 
 
(iii) Advisory and other auxiliary financial 
services (CPC 8133) 
(includes only services indicated in the 
banking sector in this schedule). 
 
None. 
(iv) Management of funds of third parties 
performed by a General Management Fund 
(Administradora General de Fondos) (in no 
circumstances does this include management 
of pension funds and voluntary pension 
savings plans (Planes de Ahorro Previsional 
Voluntario)) 
 
The management of funds of third parties can only be 
offered through subsidiaries as established in the 
General Banking Act and with prior authorisation of 
both the SBIF and the Superintendence of Securities 
and Insurance (Superintendencia de Valores y 
Seguros, SVS). 
(v) Securitisation 
 
(vi) Intermediation of publicly offered 
securities (CPC 81321). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Banks can provide securitisation services through 
subsidiaries as established in the General Banking Act.  
In order to provide these services, bank subsidiaries 
must comply with the securities laws and the norms 
issued by the SVS.  Prior authorisation from both the 
SVS and the SBIF is required. 
 
Banks can provide the services of intermediation of 
publicly offered securities through subsidiaries as 
established in the General Banking Act, either as 
securities agents or as stockbrokers.  Except for the 
requirement to enrol in the relevant register of the 
SVS, in order to provide these services bank 
subsidiaries must comply with the securities laws and 
the norms issued by the SVS.  Prior authorisation from 
both the SVS and the SBIF is required. 
 
(c) Representative offices of foreign banks. 
 
 
 
 
The SBIF may authorise foreign banks to maintain 
representative offices acting as business agents for 
their main offices, and shall exercise upon them the 
same inspection authority granted upon the 
Superintendent by the Ley General de Bancos with 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respect to banking enterprises.  The authorisation 
given by the SBIF to representative offices is subject 
to revocation if its maintenance is found to be 
inconvenient, as expressed in the Ley General de 
Bancos.  This is not intended to limit any remedies 
that the investor affected by the revocation of the 
authorisation may have under Chilean law to 
challenge the measure. 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 16 
 
 
2.  
Insurance and Insurance-Related Services: 
 
1. 
In Chile, the insurance business is divided into two groups: the first group comprises 
companies that insure goods or property (patrimonio) against the risk of loss or damage, while the 
second comprises those that cover personal risks or guarantee, within or at the end of a certain term, 
a capital sum, a paid-up policy or an income for the insured or his/her beneficiaries.  The same 
insurance company may not be constituted in such a way as to cover both categories of risk. 
 
2. 
Credit insurance companies, even though classified in the first group, must be established as 
legal entities with the sole purpose of covering this type of risk, i.e. loss of or damage to the goods or 
property (patrimonio) of the insured as a result of the non-payment of a money debt or loan, being 
also permitted to cover guarantee and fidelity risks. 
 
Subsector 
 
Limitation on Market Access 
 
Insurance: 
 
Sale of direct life insurance 
(does not include insurance related to the 
social security system) (CPC 81211), and  
sale of direct general insurance (CPC 8129, 
except for CPC 81299) 
(excluding the social security health 
institutions (Instituciones de Salud 
Previsional, ISAPRES)) i.e. legal persons set 
up for the purpose of providing health 
benefits to persons who opt to become 
members and financed through the statutory 
contribution of a percentage of taxable 
income fixed by law or a higher amount, as 
the case may be.  It also excludes the 
National Health Fund (Fondo Nacional de 
Salud, FONASA), a public agency financed 
by the government and the statutory 
contribution of a percentage of taxable 
income fixed by law, which is jointly 
responsible for paying benefits under the 
optional health scheme which persons not 
members of an ISAPRE may join.   
 
(Does not include sale of insurance for 
international maritime shipping, 
international commercial aviation and space 
launching and freight (including satellites) 
 
 
Insurance services can be provided only by insurance 
companies established in Chile as corporations or as 
branches of foreign corporations with the sole purpose 
of developing this line of business, either direct life 
insurance or direct general insurance.  In the case of 
general credit insurance (CPC 81296), they must be 
established as corporations or branches with the sole 
purpose of covering this type of risk. 
 
Insurance corporations can be legally constituted only 
in accordance with the provisions of the law on 
corporations. 
 
For the purposes of foreign insurance branch 
operations in Chile, the capital and reserves 
(patrimonio) effectively invested in Chile is 
considered, and not that of the main office.  Such 
capital and reserves (patrimonio) must be effectively 
transferred and converted into domestic currency in 
conformity with any of the systems authorised by law 
or by the Banco Central de Chile.  The increases in 
capital that do not come from the capitalisation of 
reserves will have the same treatment as the initial 
capital.  In transactions between a branch and its main 
office or other related companies abroad, they will be 
considered as independent entities.   
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 17 
and goods in international transit). 
 
Insurance may be issued directly or through insurance 
brokers who, to engage in that activity, must be 
enrolled in the Register maintained by the SVS, and 
must satisfy the requirements of the law. 
 
Sale of insurance for international maritime 
shipping, international commercial aviation 
and space launching and freight (including 
satellites) and goods in international transit. 
 
(Includes goods transported, the vehicle 
transporting the goods and any civil 
responsibility deriving therefrom.  Does not 
include national transport (cabotage)). 
 
Insurance services may be offered by insurance 
corporations constituted in Chile and which have the 
sole purpose of developing the business of direct 
general insurance. 
 
Insurance brokers. 
 
(Excludes insurance for international 
maritime shipping, international commercial 
aviation and space launching and freight 
(including satellites) and goods in 
international transit). 
 
Must be enrolled in the Register maintained by the 
SVS and fulfil the requirements established by the 
SVS.  Only legal persons legally constituted in Chile 
for this specific purpose may provide this service. 
 
Brokers of insurance for international 
maritime shipping, international commercial 
aviation and space launching and freight 
(including satellites) and goods in 
international transit. 
 
(Includes the goods being transported, the 
vehicle transporting the goods and any civil 
responsibility deriving therefrom.  Does not 
include national transport (cabotage)). 
 
Must be enrolled in the Register maintained by the 
SVS and fulfil the requirements established by the 
SVS.  Only legal persons legally constituted in Chile 
for this specific purpose may provide this service. 
 
Reinsurance and retrocession 
(includes reinsurance brokers). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reinsurance services are provided by reinsurance 
corporations and branches established in Chile in 
accordance with the provisions of the law on 
corporations and authorised by the SVS.  Insurance 
corporations may also provide reinsurance services as 
a complement to their insurance business if their 
articles of association so allow. 
 
Reinsurance services may also be provided by foreign 
reinsurers and foreign reinsurance brokers enrolled in 
the Register maintained by the SVS. 
 
Claim settlement services. 
Claim settlement services may be offered directly by 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 18 
 
 
 
insurance companies established in Chile or by legal 
persons constituted in Chile and registered with the 
SVS. 
 
Auxiliary insurance services. 
 
(Includes only consultancy, actuarial 
services and risk assessment). 
 
Auxiliary insurance services may only be provided by 
legal persons constituted in Chile and registered with 
the SVS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 19 
 
 
3.  
Securities Services: 
 
1. 
Publicly offered securities may be traded by legal persons established under Chilean law, 
whose sole purpose is securities brokerage, either as members of a stock exchange (stockbrokers) or 
outside the stock exchange (securities agents).  However, only stockbrokers may trade shares or their 
derivatives (subscription options) on the stock exchange.  Non-share securities may be traded by 
stockbrokers or securities agents registered with the SVS. 
 
2. 
Publicly offered securities risk rating services are provided by rating agencies established for 
the sole purpose of rating publicly offered securities, and they must be enrolled in the Register of 
Risk Rating Agencies (Registro de Entidades Clasificadoras de Riesgo) maintained by the SVS.   
 
3. 
Securities custody consists of the physical safe-keeping of securities’ certificates and may be 
undertaken by securities intermediaries (stockbrokers and securities agents) as an activity 
complementary to their sole purpose.  It may also be undertaken by entities that provide depository 
and custodial services for securities which should be established as special purpose corporations 
(sociedades anónimas especiales) with the sole purpose of receiving in deposit publicly offered 
securities from entities authorised by law and to facilitate operations for the transfer of such 
securities (centralised securities depositories, depósitos centralizados de valores). 
 
4. 
Financial advisory services, which involve giving financial advice on financing alternatives, 
investment appraisal, investment possibilities and debt rescheduling strategies may be undertaken by 
securities intermediaries (stockbrokers and securities agents) as an activity complementary to their 
sole purpose. 
 
Subsector 
Limitation on Market Access 
 
Stock exchanges. 
Stock exchanges must be established as special 
purpose corporations (sociedades anónimas 
especiales) under Chilean law. 
 
Intermediation of publicly offered securities, 
except shares (CPC 81321). 
Subscription and placement as agents 
(underwriting). 
 
Brokerage activities must be supplied through a legal 
person established in Chile and require prior 
enrolment in the Register of stockbrokers and 
securities agents kept by the SVS.   
 
 Intermediation of publicly offered 
shares of corporations (CPC 81321) 
(includes subscription and placement 
as agents, underwriting). 
 
 Operations in stock exchange 
derivatives authorised by the 
Superintendence of Securities and 
Insurance (Superintendencia de 
In order to trade on the stock exchange, intermediaries 
(stockbrokers) must be constituted as a legal person in 
Chile.  They must acquire a share in the respective 
stock exchange and be accepted as members of this 
exchange.  Prior enrolment in the Register of 
stockbrokers and securities agents maintained by the 
SVS is required for brokerage activities.  In addition 
to the legal requirement concerning capital and 
reserves (patrimonio), the SVS may impose more 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 20 
Valores y Seguros) 
(includes only dollar and interest rate 
futures, and options on shares.  
Shares must fulfill the requirements 
established by the respective clearing 
house, cámara de compensación). 
 
stringent non-discriminatory requirements regarding 
economic solvency on intermediaries, taking into 
account the nature of their operations, the amounts 
involved, the type of instrument negotiated, and the 
category of intermediaries to which they apply. 
 
Trading in metals on the stock exchange 
(includes only gold and silver). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trading in gold and silver may be carried out by 
stockbrokers on their own account and for third parties 
in the stock exchange in accordance with stock 
exchange regulations.  In order to trade on the stock 
exchange, intermediaries (stockbrokers) must be 
constituted as legal persons in Chile.  They must 
acquire a share in their respective stock exchange and 
be accepted as members of this exchange.  Prior 
enrolment in the Register of stockbrokers and 
securities agents maintained by the SVS is required 
for brokerage activities.  In addition to the legal 
requirement concerning capital and reserves 
(patrimonio), the SVS may impose more stringent 
non-discriminatory requirements regarding economic 
solvency on intermediaries, taking into account the 
nature of their operations, the amounts involved, the 
type of instrument negotiated and the category of 
intermediaries to which they apply. 
 
Securities risk rating 
(relates solely to rating or giving an opinion 
on publicly offered securities). 
 
 
 
 
 
They must be established in Chile as a partnership 
(sociedad de personas).  One of the specific 
requirements to be fulfilled is that not less than 60 per 
cent of the company’s capital must be held by the 
principal partners (natural or legal persons in this line 
of business holding a minimum of five per cent of the 
membership rights in the rating agency).   
Securities custody undertaken by securities 
intermediaries (CPC 81319) 
(does not include the services offered by 
suppliers who combine custody, securities 
clearance and settlement (securities 
depositories, depósitos de valores)). 
 
 
 
For securities custody, intermediaries (stockbrokers 
and agents) must be constituted in Chile as a legal 
person.  In addition to the legal requirement 
concerning capital and reserves (patrimonio), the SVS 
may impose more stringent non-discriminatory 
requirements regarding economic solvency on 
intermediaries, taking into account the nature of their 
operations, the amounts involved, the type of 
instrument negotiated and the category of 
intermediaries to which they apply. 
 
Custody undertaken by entities for the 
deposit and custody of securities. 
Securities deposit and custody entities must be 
constituted in Chile as corporations set up for that sole 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 21 
 
purpose. 
 
Financial advisory services supplied by 
securities intermediaries (CPC 81332). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial advisory services supplied by securities 
intermediaries established as legal persons in Chile 
require prior enrolment in the Register of stockbrokers 
and securities agents maintained by the SVS.  In 
addition to the legal requirement concerning capital 
and reserves (patrimonio), the SVS may impose more 
stringent non-discriminatory provisions regarding 
economic solvency on the intermediaries, taking into 
account the nature of their operations, the amounts 
involved, the type of instrument negotiated and the 
category of intermediaries to which they apply. 
 
Financial portfolio management supplied by 
security intermediaries (this does not under 
any circumstances include a General 
Management Fund (Administradora General 
de Fondos)). 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial portfolio management services supplied by 
securities intermediaries established as legal persons 
in Chile require prior enrolment in the Register of 
stockbrokers and securities agents maintained by the 
SVS.  In addition to the legal requirement concerning 
capital and reserves (patrimonio), the SVS may 
impose more stringent non-discriminatory provisions 
regarding economic solvency on the intermediaries, 
taking into account the nature of their operations, the 
amounts involved, the type of instrument negotiated 
and the category of intermediaries to which they 
apply. 
 
Management of funds of third parties 
performed by a General Management Fund 
(Administradora General de Fondos) (in no 
circumstances does this include management 
of pension funds and voluntary pension 
savings plans (Planes de Ahorro Previsional 
Voluntario)). 
 
The fund management service may be carried out by 
corporations set up for that sole purpose, constituted 
in Chile, with authorisation from the SVS.   
 
Service of clearing houses for derivatives 
(contracts for futures and options on 
securities). 
 
 
 
Clearing houses for futures contracts and options on 
securities must be established in Chile as corporations 
for that sole purpose and with an authorisation from 
the SVS.  They may only be constituted by stock 
exchanges and their stockbrokers. 
 
Cattle and agricultural commodities 
exchanges. 
 
Service of clearing houses of futures and 
options on cattle and agricultural 
commodities. 
Entities must be established as special purpose 
corporations (sociedades anónimas especiales) under 
Chilean law. 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 22 
 
Cattle and agricultural commodities 
brokerage. 
 
 
The activity of cattle and agricultural commodities 
broker must be performed by legal entities established 
under Chilean law. 
 
General deposit warehouses (warrants) 
(corresponds to merchandise warehousing 
services accompanied by the issue of a 
deposit certificate and a chattel mortgage 
receipt (vale de prenda)). 
 
Provision of warrant services may be carried out only 
by legal persons duly constituted in Chile who have 
the supply of warrant services as their sole purpose. 
 
Securities issue and registration services 
(CPC 81322) (does not include deposit and 
custody of securities services). 
 
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III – CHILE – 23 
 
 
4.  
Other Financial Services: 
 
Subsector 
Limitation on Market Access 
 
Provision and transfer of financial 
information and financial data processing 
and related software by suppliers of other 
financial services. 
 
None. 
Exchange market operations carried out 
according to the regulations issued or to be 
issued by the Central Bank of Chile. 
Only banks, juridical persons, stockbrokers and 
securities agents, all of which must be established in 
Chile as legal entities, can operate in the Formal 
Exchange Market.  Juridical persons, stockbrokers and 
securities agents require prior authorisation from the 
Banco Central de Chile to operate in the Formal 
Exchange Market. 
 
Management of mortgage loans as 
established in Decreto con Fuerza de Ley N° 
251, Ley de Seguros, Title V. 
Mortgage loans management agencies must be 
established as corporations (sociedades anónimas) 
under Chilean law.  For greater certainty, according to 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley N° 251, Ley de Seguros, 
Title V, Article 88. 
 
 
 
