 
 
ANNEX 15-A 
 
SCHEDULE OF AUSTRALIA 
 
 
SECTION A: Central Government Entities 
 
 
Thresholds: 
 
1.  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  apply  to  central  government  entities 
listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with 
Article 15.2.8 (Scope), to equal or exceed:   
 
(a)  for procurement of goods and services, 130,000 SDRs; and 
 
(b)    for procurement of construction services, 5,000,000 SDRs. 
 
2.  The monetary thresholds set out in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) shall be adjusted in 
accordance with Section H of this Schedule. 
 
List of Entities: 
 
1.  Administrative Appeals Tribunal 
2.  Attorney-General’s Department 
3.  Australian Aged Care Quality Agency 
4.  Australian Bureau of Statistics 
5.  Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research   
6.  Australian Crime Commission 
7.  Australian Electoral Commission 
8.  Australian Federal Police 
9.  Australian Institute of Criminology 
10. Australian Law Reform Commission 
11. Australian National Audit Office 
12. Australian Office of Financial Management (AOFM) 
13. Australian Public Service Commission 
14. Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 1 15. Australian Research Council 
16. Australian Taxation Office 
17. Australian Trade Commission (Austrade) 
18. Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) 
19. Australian Transport Safety Bureau 
20. Bureau of Meteorology 
21. Commonwealth Grants Commission 
22. CrimTrac Agency 
23. Department of Agriculture and Water Resources 
24. Department of Communications and the Arts 
25. Department of Defence 
26. Department of Education and Training 
27. Department of Employment 
28. Department of Finance   
29. Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
30. Department of Health   
31. Department of Human Services   
32. Department of Immigration and Border Protection 
33. Department of Industry, Innovation and Science 
34. Department of Infrastructure and Regional Development 
35. Department of Parliamentary Services 
36. Department of Social Services 
37. Department of the Environment 
38. Department of the House of Representatives 
39. Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
40. Department of the Senate 
41. Department of the Treasury 
42. Department of Veterans’ Affairs 
43. Fair Work Commission 
44. Family Court and Federal Circuit Court 
45. Federal Court of Australia 
46. Geoscience Australia 
47. Inspector-General of Taxation 
48. IP Australia 
49. National Archives of Australia 
50. National Blood Authority 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 2 51. National Capital Authority 
52. National Competition Council 
53. Office of Parliamentary Counsel 
54. Office of the Australian Accounting Standards Board 
55. Office of the Australian Information Commissioner 
56. Office of the Commonwealth Ombudsman   
57. Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 
58. Office of the Fair Work Ombudsman 
59. Office of the Inspector-General of Intelligence and Security 
60. Office of the Official Secretary to the Governor-General 
61. Old Parliament House 
62. Productivity Commission 
63. Professional Services Review Scheme 
64. Royal Australian Mint 
65. Safe Work Australia 
66. Seafarers Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority (Seacare Authority) 
67. Workplace Gender Equality Agency 
 
Notes to Section A 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall only cover those entities listed (including 
an office within a listed entity) in this Section. 
 
2.   Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  not  cover  the  procurement  of  motor 
vehicles by any entity listed in this Section. 
 
3.   Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement relating to the 
functions of the Australian Government Solicitor. 
 
4.   Department of Defence   
 
 (a)  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover Department of Defence 
procurement of the following goods due to Article 29.2 (Security Exceptions): 
  Approximately 
equivalent to: 
   
Weapons  FSC 10 
Fire Control Equipment  FSC 12 
Ammunition and Explosives  FSC 13 
Guided Missiles  FSC 14 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 3 Aircraft and Airframe Structural Components  FSC 15 
Aircraft Components and Accessories  FSC 16 
Aircraft Launching, Landing, & Ground Handling Equipment  FSC 17 
Space Vehicles  FSC 18 
Ships, Small Craft, Pontoons and Floating Docks  FSC 19 
Ship and Marine Equipment  FSC 20 
Ground Effect Vehicles, Motor Vehicles, Trailers and Cycles  FSC 23 
Engines, Turbines, and Components  FSC 28 
Engines Accessories  FSC 29 
Bearings  FSC 31 
Water Purification and Sewage Treatment Equipment  FSC 46 
Valves  FSC 48 
Maintenance and Repair Shop Equipment  FSC 49 
Prefabricated Structures and Scaffolding  FSC 54 
Communication, Detection, and Coherent Radiation Equipment  FSC 58 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment Components  FSC 59 
Fiber Optics Materials, Components, Assemblies, and Accessories  FSC 60 
Electric Wire, and Power and Distribution Equipment  FSC 61 
Alarm, Signal and Security Detection Systems  FSC 63 
Instruments and Laboratory Equipment  FSC 66 
Specialty Metals  No Code 
  
Note: Whether a good is included within the scope of this Note shall be determined 
solely according to the descriptions provided in the left column above.   U.S. Federal 
Supply Codes are provided for reference purposes only.   For a complete listing of the 
United  States  Federal  Supply  Codes,  to  which  the  Australian  categories  are 
approximately equivalent, see https://www.fbo.gov/. 
 
(b)  For  Australia,  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  not  cover  the 
following services, as elaborated in the Common Classification System and the 
WTO  system  of  classification  –  MTN.GNS/W/120,  due  to  Article  29.2 
(Security  Exceptions).    For  a  complete  listing  of  Common  Classification 
System, see http://www.sice.oas.org/trade/nafta/chap-105.asp.   
 
(i)  Design, development, integration, test, evaluation, maintenance, repair, 
modification, rebuilding and installation of military systems and equipment 
(approximately equivalent to relevant parts of U.S. Product Service Codes A & 
J). 
 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 4 (ii)  Operation of Government-owned Facilities (approximately equivalent to 
U.S. Product Service Code M). 
 
(iii)  Space services (AR, B4 & V3). 
 
(iv)  Services in support of military forces overseas. 
 
  (c)  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of 
goods and services by, or on behalf of, the Defence Intelligence Organisation, 
the Australian Signals Directorate, or the Australian Geospatial-Intelligence 
Organisation. 
 
(d)  In respect of Article 15.4 (National Treatment and Non-Discrimination) the 
Australian Government reserves the right, pursuant to Article 29.2 (Security 
Exceptions), to maintain the Australian industry capability programme and its 
successor programmes and policies. 
 
(e)  In respect of the Department of Defence, a good or a service is covered with 
respect to Viet Nam only to the extent that Viet Nam has covered that good or 
service in its Schedule. 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 5  
 
SECTION B: Sub-Central Government Entities 
 
 
Thresholds: 
 
1.   Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to sub-central government entities 
listed in this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with 
Article 15.2.8 (Scope), to equal or exceed: 
 
(a)  for procurement of goods and services, 355,000 SDR; and 
 
  (b)    for procurement of construction services, 5,000,000 SDR. 
 
2.   The monetary thresholds set out in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) shall be adjusted in 
accordance with Section H of this Schedule. 
 
List of Entities: 
 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall cover only those entities specifically listed 
in this Section. 
 
Australian Capital Territory 
 
1.  ACT Gambling and Racing Commission 
2.  ACT Insurance Authority 
3.  ACTION 
4.  ACT Auditor-General 
5.  Capital Metro Authority 
6.  Chief Minister, Treasury and Economic Development Directorate 
7.  Community Services Directorate 
8.  Cultural Facilities Corporation 
9.  Education and Training Directorate 
10.  Environment and Planning Directorate 
11.  Health Directorate 
12.  Housing ACT 
13.  Independent Competition and Regulatory Commission 
14.  Justice and Community Safety Directorate 
15.  Legal Aid Commission 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 6 16.  Ombudsman of the ACT 
17.  Territory and Municipal Services Directorate 
 
Note: For the entities listed for the Australian Capital Territory, Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement)  shall  not  cover  the  procurement  of  health  and  welfare  services,  education 
services, utility services, or motor vehicles. 
 
New South Wales 
 
1.  Advocate for Children and Young People   
2.  Board of Studies, Teaching and Education Standards 
3.  Crown Solicitor’s Office   
4.  Department of Education 
5.  Department of Family and Community Services 
6.  Department of Finance, Services and Innovation 
7.  Department of Industry, Skills and Regional Development 
8.  Department of Justice 
9.  Department of Planning and Environment 
10.  Department of Premier and Cabinet 
11.  Environment Protection Authority 
12.  Fire and Rescue NSW 
13.  Health Care Complaints Commission 
14.  Information and Privacy Commission (Note 3) 
15.  Legal Aid NSW 
16.  Ministry of Health 
17.  Ministry for Police and Emergency Services   
18.  Motor Accidents Authority of NSW 
19.  Multicultural NSW 
20.  New South Wales Crime Commission 
21.  New South Wales Electoral Commission 
22.  NSW Food Authority 
23.  New South Wales Ombudsman 
24.  NSW Rural Assistance Authority 
25.  New South Wales Rural Fire Service 
26.  Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions NSW 
27.  Office of Environment and Heritage   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 7 28.  Office of the Local Government   
29.  Parliamentary Counsel’s Office   
30.  Police Integrity Commission 
31.  Public Service Commission 
32.  State Emergency Service 
33.  Sydney Harbour Foreshore Authority   
34.  Sydney Olympic Park Authority 
35.  The Audit Office of New South Wales 
36.  The Treasury 
37.  Transport for NSW (Note 4) 
38.  WorkCover NSW  
 
Note: 
 
1.  For the entities listed for New South Wales, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) 
shall not cover the procurement of health and welfare services, education services or motor 
vehicles. 
 
2.  For the entities listed for New South Wales, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) 
shall not apply to procurements undertaken by a covered entity on behalf of a non-covered 
entity. 
 
3.  Chapter 15 (Government  Procurement)  shall not  cover procurement related to  the 
functions of the Privacy Commission by the Information and Privacy Commission.   
 
4.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover procurement by Transport for 
NSW, related to the functions of the Transport Construction Authority, and the Country Rail 
Infrastructure Authority or its successor agencies. 
 
Northern Territory 
 
1.  Aboriginal Areas Protection Authority 
2.  Auditor General’s Office 
3.  Central Australian Hospital Network 
4.  Department of Arts and Museums 
5.  Department of Business 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 8 6.  Department of Children and Families 
7.  Department of Community Services 
8.  Department of Correctional Services 
9.  Department of Health 
10.  Department of Housing 
11.  Department of Land Resource Management 
12.  Department of Lands, Planning and the Environment 
13.  Department of Local Government and Regions 
14.  Department of Mines and Energy 
15.  Department of Primary Industry and Fisheries 
16.  Department of Sport and Recreation and Racing 
17.  Department of the Attorney-General and Justice 
18.  Department of the Chief Minister 
19.  Department of the Legislative Assembly 
20.  Department of Treasury and Finance 
21.  Health and Community Services Complaints Commission  
22.  Land Development Corporation 
23.  Museum and Art Galleries Board 
24.  Northern Territory Electoral Commission 
25.  Northern Territory Emergency Service 
26.  Northern Territory Employment and Training Authority 
27.  Northern Territory Fire and Rescue Service 
28.  Northern Territory Licensing Commission 
29.  Office of the Commissioner for Public Employment 
30.  Ombudsman’s Office 
31.  Parks and Wildlife Commission of the Northern Territory 
32.  Police Force of the Northern Territory 
33.  Racing Commission 
34.  Remuneration Tribunal 
35.  Strehlow Research Centre Board 
36.  Top End Hospital Network 
37.  Tourism NT 
38.  Utilities Commission of the Northern Territory 
39.  Work Health Authority 
 
Note: For  the  entities  listed  for  the  Northern  Territory,  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement) does not cover set-asides on behalf of the Charles Darwin University pursuant 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 9 to Partnership Agreements between the Northern Territory Government and Charles Darwin 
University. 
 
Queensland 
 
  Entities declared to be departments pursuant to section 14 of the Public Service Act 
2008 (Qld):  
1.  Motor Accident Insurance Commission 
2.  Nominal Defendant 
3.  Public Service Commission 
4.  Public Trust Office 
 
Note: 
 
1.  For the entities listed for Queensland, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not 
apply to procurement: 
 
(a)  by covered entities on behalf of non-covered entities; 
 
  (b)  undertaken  by  departments,  or  parts  of  departments,  which  deliver  health, 
education, training or arts services; or 
 
  (c)  of health services, education services, training services, arts services, welfare 
services, government advertising and motor vehicles. 
 
2.   For entities listed for Queensland, Article 15.16.3(f) (Post Award Information) shall not 
apply for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement), so as to allow time for the entities listed for Queensland to make necessary 
modifications to electronic means to enable the publication of such information. 
 
South Australia 
 
1.  Attorney-General's Department  
2.  Auditor-General's Department  
3.  Country Fire Service   
4.  Courts Administration Authority   
5.  Defence SA   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 10 6.  Department for Communities and Social Inclusion  
7.  Department for Correctional Services   
8.  Department for Education and Child Development  
9.  Department for Health and Ageing   
10.  Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources   
11.  Department of Planning, Transport and Infrastructure   
12.  Department of Primary Industries and Regions  
13.  Department of State Development   
14.  Department of the Premier and Cabinet   
15.  Department of Treasury and Finance   
16.  Electoral Commission of South Australia  
17.  Environment Protection Authority 
18.  Independent Gambling Authority 
19.  Parliament of South Australia   
20.  SA Tourism Commission 
21.  SAFECOM  
22.  South Australia Police 
23.  South Australian Metropolitan Fire Service   
24.  State Emergency Service 
25.  State Procurement Board 
26.  TAFE SA 
 
Note: For the entities listed for South Australia, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall 
not cover the procurement of health and welfare services, education services, advertising 
services or motor vehicles. 
 
Tasmania 
 
1.  Department of Education 
2.  Department of Health and Human Services 
3.  Department of Justice 
4.  Department of Police and Emergency Management   
5.  Department of Premier and Cabinet 
6.  Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment 
7.  Department of State Growth 
8.  Department of Treasury and Finance 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 11 9.  House of Assembly 
10.  Legislative Council 
11.  Legislature-General 
12.  Office of the Governor 
13.  Tasmanian Audit Office 
14.  Tasmanian Health Service 
15.  Office of the Ombudsman   
16.  Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 
17.  Tourism Tasmania 
 
Note: For the entities listed for Tasmania, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not 
cover the procurement  of health and welfare services, education services, or advertising 
services.   
 
Victoria 
 
1.  Commission for Children and Young People 
2.  Department of Economic Development, Jobs, Transport and Resources 
3.  Department of Education and Training   
4.  Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning   
5.  Department of Health and Human Services   
6.  Department of Justice and Regulation 
7.  Department of Premier and Cabinet   
8.  Department of Treasury and Finance   
9.  Essential Services Commission 
10.  Game Management Authority 
11.  Independent Broad-Based Anti-corruption Commission  
12.  Office of Public Prosecutions   
13.  Office of the Chief Commissioner of Police (Victoria Police)   
14.  Office of the Commissioner for Environmental Sustainability   
15.  Office of the Fire Services Levy Monitor   
16.  Office of the Freedom of Information Commissioner 
17.  Office of the Legal Services Commissioner   
18.  Office of the Ombudsman   
19.  Office of the Privacy Commissioner   
20.  Office of the Road Safety Camera Commissioner   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 12 21.  Office of the Victorian Inspectorate 
22.  Taxi Services Commission   
23.  Victorian Auditor-General’s Office   
24.  Victorian Commission for Gambling and Liquor Regulation   
25.  Victorian Electoral Commission  
26.  Victorian Equal Opportunity and Human Rights Commission   
27.  Victorian Public Sector Commission 
28.  Victorian Responsible Gambling Foundation 
 
Note: 
 
1.  For the entities listed for Victoria, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not 
cover the procurement of motor vehicles.   
 
2.  For the entities listed for Victoria, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not 
apply to procurement by covered entities on behalf of non-covered entities. 
 
Western Australia 
 
1.  Botanic Gardens and Parks Authority 
2.  Corruption and Crime Commission (Western Australia) 
3.  Country High Schools Hostels Authority 
4.  Department of Aboriginal Affairs 
5.  Department of Agriculture and Food 
6.  Department of Child Protection and Family Support 
7.  Department of Commerce 
8.  Department of Corrective Services 
9.  Department of Culture and the Arts 
10.  Department of Education 
11.  Department of Education Services 
12.  Department of Environment Regulation 
13.  Department of Fire and Emergency Services 
14.  Department of Finance 
15.  Department of Fisheries 
16.  Department of Health 
17.  Department of Lands 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 13 18.  Department of Local Government and Communities 
19.  Department of Mines and Petroleum 
20.  Department of Parks and Wildlife 
21.  Department of Planning 
22.  Department of Racing, Gaming and Liquor 
23.  Department of Regional Development 
24.  Department of Sport and Recreation 
25.  Department of State Development 
26.  Department of Training and Workforce Development 
27.  Department of Treasury 
28.  Department of Water 
29.  Department of the Attorney General   
30.  Department of the Premier and Cabinet 
31.  Department of the Registrar Western Australia Industrial Relations Commission 
32.  Disability Services Commission 
33.  Equal Opportunity Commission 
34.  Gascoyne Development Commission   
35.  Goldfields Esperance Development Commission 
36.  Governor’s Establishment 
37.  Great Southern Development Commission   
38.  Heritage Council of Western Australia 
39.  Housing Authority 
40.  Kimberley Development Commission 
41.  Law Reform Commission of Western Australia 
42.  Legislative Assembly 
43.  Legislative Council 
44.  Main Roads Western Australia 
45.  Mid West Development Commission 
46.  Minerals and Energy Research Institute of Western Australia 
47.  National Trust of Australia (WA) 
48.  Office of the Auditor General 
49.  Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 
50.  Office of the Information Commissioner 
51.  Office of the Inspector of Custodial Services   
52.  Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigations 
53.  Parliamentary Services Department 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 14 54.  Peel Development Commission    
55.  Pilbara Development Commission 
56.  Public Sector Commission 
57.  Public Transport Authority 
58.  Rottnest Island Authority 
59.  Rural Business Development Corporation 
60.  Salaries and Allowances Tribunal 
61.  School Curriculum and Standards Authority 
62.  Small Business Development Corporation 
63.  South West Development Commission   
64.  State Library of Western Australia 
65.  Swan River Trust 
66.  Western Australia Police 
67.  Western Australian Electoral Commission 
68.  Western Australian Land Information Authority (Landgate) 
69.  Western Australian Planning Commission   
70.  Western Australian Sports Centre Trust (trading as VenuesWest) 
71.  Western Australian Tourism Commission 
72.  Wheatbelt Development Commission 
73.  Zoological Parks Authority 
 
Note: For greater certainty, consistent with Article 15.9.9 (Qualification of Suppliers), in 
relation to procurements from the Department of Finance, Building Management and Works’ 
Prequalification Scheme; and Main Road’s ‘National Prequalification System for Civil (Road 
and Bridge) Construction Contracts’ Scheme, requests for participation in a procurement from 
suppliers not already prequalified at the time of tender release will not be considered due to 
the time and complexity involved in assessing requests.  This does not preclude suppliers 
from applying at any time to become prequalified.   Prequalification ensures the financial 
security of building and construction contractors and does not discriminate between local 
suppliers and the suppliers of other Parties. 
 
Notes to Section B 
 
For entities listed in this Section: 
 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 15 1.  Australia offers coverage of sub-central entities listed in this Section only to Canada, 
Chile, Japan, Mexico and Peru.  Australia is prepared to extend coverage of this Section to 
other Parties upon negotiation of mutually acceptable concessions. 
 
2.  A service listed in Section E (Services) is covered with respect to Canada and Mexico 
only to the extent that Party has covered that service in their Schedule. 
 
3.  In relation to multi-use lists: 
 
(a)  a notice inviting suppliers to apply for inclusion on a multi-use list may be used 
as a notice of intended procurement, provided a statement is included that only 
suppliers  on  the  multi-use  list  will  receive  further  notices  of  procurement 
covered by the multi-use list; and 
 
(b)  where all or a limited number of qualified suppliers have been selected, the time   
period for tendering may be fixed by mutual agreement between the procuring 
entity and the selected suppliers.   In the absence of agreement, the period shall 
not be less than 10 days. 
 
4.  For Mexico, Australia may set aside from the obligations of Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement) each fiscal year following the date of entry into force of this Agreement the 
respective percentage specified in paragraph 5 the total value of procurement contracts for 
goods and services, and any combination thereof, and construction services procured by the 
States and Territories in the year that are above thresholds set out in this Section. 
 
5.  The percentages referred to in paragraph 4 are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 16  
 
SECTION C: Other Entities 
 
 
Thresholds:  
 
1.   Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to other covered entities listed in 
this Section where the value of the procurement is estimated, in accordance with Article 
15.2.8 (Scope), to equal or exceed: 
 
(a)    for procurement of goods and services, 400,000 SDR 
 
(b)    for procurement of construction services, 5,000,000 SDR  
 
2.   The monetary thresholds set out in paragraphs  1(a) and 1(b) shall be adjusted in 
accordance with Section H of this Schedule. 
 
List of Entities:  
 
1.  Australian Communications and Media Authority 
2.  Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
3.  Australian Financial Security Authority 
4.  Australian Fisheries Management Authority 
5.  Australian Human Rights Commission 
6.  Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 
7.  Australian Institute of Marine Science 
8.  Australian Maritime Safety Authority 
9.  Australian National Maritime Museum 
10.  Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation 
11.  Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority 
12.  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority 
13.  Australian Securities and Investments Commission 
14.  Australian War Memorial (Note 3) 
15.  Comcare 
16.  Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation 
17.  Export Finance and Insurance Corporation 
18.  Grains Research and Development Corporation 
19.  Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 17 20.  National Gallery of Australia 
21.  National Museum of Australia 
22.  Reserve Bank of Australia 
23.  Sydney Harbour Federation Trust 
24.  The Director of National Parks 
25.  Tourism Australia 
 
Notes to Section C 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall cover only those entities listed in this 
Section. 
 
2.  For the entities listed in this Section, Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not 
cover the procurement of motor vehicles. 
 
3.  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  shall  not  cover  procurement  of 
telecommunications services by the Australian War Memorial. 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 18  
 
SECTION D: Goods 
 
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to all goods procured by the entities 
listed in Sections A, B and C, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 15 (Government 
Procurement), including this Schedule. 
 
2.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of blood and 
blood-related products, including plasma derived products.    
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 19  
 
SECTION E: Services 
 
 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to all services procured by the entities 
listed  in  Sections  A,  B  and  C,  unless  otherwise  specified  in  Chapter  15  (Government 
Procurement), including this Schedule. 
 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not cover the procurement of: 
 
(a)   plasma fractionation services; 
   
(b)   government advertising services; 
  
(c)   health and welfare services; and 
 
(d)   research and development services.   
 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 20  
 
SECTION F: Construction Services 
 
 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall apply to all construction services procured 
by the entities listed in Sections  A, B and C, unless otherwise specified in  Chapter 15 
(Government Procurement), including in this Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 21  
 
SECTION G: General Notes 
 
 
Unless otherwise specified herein, the following General Notes in Australia’s Schedule 
shall apply without exception to Chapter 15 (Government Procurement), including to all 
Sections of this Schedule.  
 
1.  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any form of preference to benefit small and medium enterprises;   
 
(b)  measures to protect national treasures of artistic, historic, or archaeological 
value; 
 
(c)  measures for the health and welfare of indigenous people; and 
 
(d)  measures for the economic and social advancement of indigenous people. 
 
2.  For greater certainty: 
 
(a)  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurement funded 
by grants and sponsorship payments received from persons not listed in this 
Annex; 
 
(b)  Chapter 15 (Government Procurement) shall not apply to procurement by a 
procuring entity from another government entity; and 
 
(c)  a  procuring  entity  may  use  limited  tendering  procedures  for  unsolicited 
innovative proposals under Article 15.10.2(g) (Limited Tendering). 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 22  
 
SECTION H: Threshold Adjustment Formula 
 
 
1.   The thresholds shall be adjusted in every even-numbered year with each adjustment 
taking effect on January 1, beginning on January 1 of the first even numbered year after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for Australia. 
 
2.   Every two years, Australia shall calculate and publish the value of the thresholds 
under  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement)  expressed  in  Australian  dollars.    These 
calculations shall be based on the conversion rates published by the International Monetary 
Fund in its monthly International Financial Statistics. 
 
3.   The conversion rates shall be the average of the daily values of the Australian dollar in 
terms of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) over the two-year period preceding October 1 or 
November 1 of the year before the adjusted thresholds are to take effect, and rounded to the 
nearest thousand Australian dollars.   
 
4.   Australia  shall  notify  the  other  Parties  of  the  current  thresholds  in  its  currency 
immediately after this Agreement enters into force, and the adjusted thresholds in its currency 
thereafter in a timely manner.   
 
5.   Australia shall consult if a major change in its national currency relative to the SDR or 
to the national currency of another Party were to create a significant problem with regard to 
the application of Chapter 15 (Government Procurement). 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 23  
 
SECTION I: Procurement Information   
 
 
All information on government procurement is published on the following websites:  
 
Legislation and Regulations: http://www.comlaw.gov.au/ 
 
Australian Government Tender System: https://www.tenders.gov.au/ 
   
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 24  
 
SECTION J: Transitional Measures 
 
 
None. 
 
ANNEX 15-A – AUSTRALIA – 25 