 
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF NEW ZEALAND 
 
 
HEADNOTES 
 
1.  Commitments under Chapter 11 (Financial Services) are undertaken subject to the 
limitations and conditions set forth in the explanatory notes to Annex III, these headnotes and 
the Schedule below. 
 
2.   For entries in Section A, Description sets out the non-conforming measure for which 
the entry is made.  
 
3.  For entries in Section A, all elements of the entry shall be considered in their totality 
for the purposes of its interpretation. 
 
4.  For entries in Section B, where an inconsistency arises in relation to the interpretation 
of  an  entry,  the  Description  element  of  the  entry  shall  prevail  to  the  extent  of  the 
inconsistency. 
 
5.  In accordance with Article 11.10 (Non-Conforming Measures), the Articles specified 
in the Obligations Concerned element of an entry do not apply to measures identified in the 
Description element of that entry. 
 
6.  To clarify New Zealand’s commitment with respect to Article 11.5 (Market Access for 
Financial Institutions), juridical persons supplying financial services and constituted under the 
laws of New Zealand are subject to non-discriminatory limitations on juridical form.1 
 
7.  Article 11.10(1)(c) (Non-Conforming Measures) shall not apply to non-conforming 
measures relating to paragraph (b) of Article 11.5 (Market Access for Financial Institutions). 
 
8.   For transparency purposes and in accordance with Article 11.10.3 (Non-Conforming 
Measures), non-conforming measures set out in New Zealand’s Schedules to Annex I and 
Annex II as not subject to Article 9.4 (National Treatment), Article 9.5 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment), Article 9.11 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors), Article 10.3 
(National Treatment) or Article 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) or, including those 
entries that apply to all sectors or financial services, shall be treated as non-conforming 
measures not subject to Article 11.3 (National Treatment), Article 11.4 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment) or Article 11.9 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors), to the extent 
that the measure, sector, subsector or activity set out in the entry is covered by Chapter 11 
(Financial Services). 
                                            
1  For example, partnerships and sole proprietorships are generally not acceptable juridical forms for authorised 
depository institutions in New Zealand.  This headnote is not in itself intended to affect, or otherwise limit, a 
choice by a financial institution of the other Party between branches or subsidiaries. 
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 1  
 
9.  For greater certainty, the measures that New Zealand may take in accordance with 
Article 11.11.1 (Exceptions), provided they meet the requirements of that Article, include 
those governing: 
 
(a)  licensing, registration or authorisation as a financial institution or cross-border 
financial service supplier, and corresponding requirements; 
 
(b)  juridical  form,  including  legal  incorporation  requirements  for  systemically 
important financial institutions and limitations on deposit-taking activities of 
branches of overseas banks, and corresponding requirements; 
 
(c)  requirements pertaining to  directors and senior management of  a financial 
institution or cross-border financial service supplier; 
 
(d)  capital,  related  party  exposures,  liquidity,  disclosure  and  other  risk 
management requirements; 
 
(e)  payment, clearance and settlement systems (including securities systems); 
 
(f)  anti-money laundering and countering financing of terrorism; and 
 
(g)  distress or failure of a financial institution or cross-border financial service 
supplier. 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 2  
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
Section A 
 
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector:  Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
 
 
Level of Government:  Central 
 
 
Measures:  Commodity Levies Act 1990 
Commodity Levies Amendment Act 1995 
Kiwifruit Industry Restructuring Act 1999 and regulations 
 
   
Description:  The provision of crop insurance for wheat can be restricted in 
accordance with the Commodity Levies Amendment Act 1995 
(CLA).  Section 4 of the CLA provides for the use of funds 
derived under a mandatory commodity levy on wheat growers 
to be used for the purpose of funding a scheme insuring wheat 
crops against damage or loss. 
 
The provision of insurance intermediation services related to 
the export of kiwifruit can be restricted in accordance with the 
Kiwifruit Industry Restructuring Act 1999 and regulations 
relating to the export marketing of kiwifruit. 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 3  
 
Sector:   Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance)  
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  Senior Management and Boards of Directors (Article 11.9) 
 
 
Level of Government:  Central 
   
 
Measures:  Kiwisaver Act 2006 
 
 
Description:  At least one director of a corporate trustee and one director of a 
fund manager of a registered Kiwisaver scheme must be a New 
Zealand resident.   
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 4  
 
 
ANNEX III 
 
Section B 
 
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
 
 
Sub-Sector:  Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors (Article 11.9) 
 
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure with respect to the supply of: 
 
(a)   compulsory social insurance for personal injury 
caused by accident, work related gradual process 
disease and infection, and treatment injury; and 
 
(b)   disaster insurance for residential property for 
replacement cover up to a defined statutory 
maximum. 
 
 
Existing Measures:  Accident Compensation Act 2001 
Earthquake Commission Act 1993 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 5  
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
   
 
Obligations Concerned:  National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
 
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure with respect to the establishment or operation of 
exchanges, securities markets or futures markets. 
 
For greater certainty, this reservation does not apply to 
financial institutions participating in, or seeking to participate 
in, any such exchange, securities market or futures market. 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 6  
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
   
 
Obligations Concerned:  National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors (Article 11.9) 
 
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure with respect to the establishment or operation of any 
unit trust, market or other facility established for the trade in, 
or allotment or management of, securities in the co-operative 
dairy company arising from the amalgamation authorised 
under the Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001, or any 
successor body.   
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 7  
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
 
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure with respect to insurance and insurance-related 
services for industry marketing boards established for products 
under the following CPC codes: 
 
(a)   01, except 01110 and 01340 (products of 
agriculture, horticulture and market gardening, 
except wheat and kiwifruit); 
 
(b)   02 (live animals and animal products); 
 
(c)   211, except 21111, 21112, 21115, 21116 and 
21119 (meat and meat products, except beef, 
sheep meat, poultry and offal); 
 
(d)   213-216 (prepared and preserved vegetables, 
fruit juices and vegetable juices, prepared and 
preserved fruit and nuts, animal and vegetable 
oils and fats);  
 
(e)   22 (dairy); 
 
(f)   2399 (other food products); and 
 
(g)   261, except for 2613, 2614, 2615, 02961, 02962 
and 02963 (natural textile fibres prepared for 
spinning, excluding wool). 
 
 
Existing Measures:  Commodity Levies Act 1990 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 8  
 
Sector:  Financial Services   
   
   
Sub-Sector:  All 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  Senior Management and Boards of Directors (Article 11.9) 
   
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure that requires all companies to have one or more 
directors, of whom at least one must: 
 
(a)   live in New Zealand; or 
 
(b)   live in an “enforcement country”2 and be a 
director of a company that is registered 
(except as the equivalent of an overseas 
company) in that enforcement country. 
     
                                            
2  “Enforcement country” means a country that has an agreement with New Zealand that allows for the 
recognition and enforcement in that country of New Zealand judgments imposing regulatory regime criminal 
fines. 
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 9  
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  All 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  Market Access for Financial Institutions (Article 11.5) 
Cross-Border Trade (Article 11.6) 
 
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure with respect to: 
 
(a)   the provision of public law enforcement and 
correctional services; and 
 
(b)   the following, to the extent that they are social 
services established for a public purpose: 
 
(i)   child care; 
 
(ii)   health; 
 
(iii)   income security and insurance; 
 
(iv)   public education; 
 
(v)   public housing; 
 
(vi)   public training; 
 
(vii)   public transport; 
 
(viii)   public utilities; 
 
(ix)   social security and insurance; and 
 
(x)   social welfare. 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 10  
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  All 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
   
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure that provides a subsidy or grant to any entities 
that are controlled, or wholly or partially owned, by the 
government and that may conduct financial operations, 
including measures taken in relation to the privatisation 
of such entities. 
   
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 11  
 
Sector:  Financial Services 
   
   
Sub-Sector:  All 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  National Treatment (Article 11.3) 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment (Article 11.4) 
 
 
Description:  New Zealand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any 
measure that provides a subsidy or grant to any entity that 
is systemically important to the infrastructure of the 
financial market, including: 
 
(a)   exchanges; 
 
(b)   clearing and settlement facilities; and 
 
(c)   market operators. 
 
ANNEX III – NEW ZEALAND – 12 