 
 
ANNEX 12-A – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 1 
 
 
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM’S SCHEDULE OF COMMITMENTS FOR  
TEMPORARY ENTRY FOR BUSINESS PERSONS 
 
 
The following sets out Brunei Darussalam’s commitments in accordance with Article 
12.4 (Grant of Temporary Entry) in respect of the temporary entry of business persons. 
 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
A.  
Business Visitors 
 
Definition: 
 
Business Visitors means a business 
person who: 
 
(a)  
is a goods seller and is seeking 
temporary entry into Brunei 
Darussalam, for the purpose of the 
sale of goods or to enter into a 
distribution or retailing 
arrangement where such 
negotiations do not involve direct 
sales to the general public; 
 
(b)  
is a service seller or representative 
of a services supplier and is 
seeking temporary entry into 
Brunei Darussalam for the purpose 
of negotiating the sale of services 
for that service supplier and will 
not be engaged in direct sales to 
the general public or in supplying 
services directly; 
 
(c)  
attends meetings or conferences or 
engages in consultations with 
business associates; or 
 
(d)  
is a goods seller seeking temporary 
entry into Brunei Darussalam for 
the purpose of attending or 
participating in trade conventions 
and trade fairs. 
 
 
 
Temporary entry is up to three months and 
can be extended for up to 12 months. 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 12-A – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 2 
 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
B.  
Installers and Servicers 
 
Definition: 
 
Installers and Servicers means persons 
who are installers or servicers of 
machinery or equipment who are 
employed or appointed by supplying 
company where such installation or 
servicing by the supplying company is a 
condition of purchase of the said 
machinery or equipment, and are not 
performing activities which are not related 
to the installing or servicing activities 
which is the subject of the contract, and 
receives remuneration from the supplying 
company. 
 
 
 
Temporary entry is up to three months and 
can be extended for up to 12 months.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 12-A – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 3 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
C.  
Intra-Corporate Transferees 
 
Brunei Darussalam shall, upon application, grant the right of entry and temporary stay 
to the accompanying spouse and dependants of a business person of another Party. 
 
Subject to laws, regulations and policies, Brunei Darussalam shall grant accompanying 
spouses of another Party with the right to work, as defined in the Professional category 
in this Schedule of Specific Commitments, where that Party has also made a 
commitment in its schedule for spouses of Professionals or an equivalent category. 
 
Definition:   
 
Intra-Corporate Transferees (ICTs) 
means a Manager, Executive or 
Specialist: 
 
(a)  
who is an employee of a firm 
through a branch, subsidiary or 
affiliate established in Brunei 
Darussalam; and 
 
(b)  
who have been in the prior employ 
of their enterprise outside Brunei 
Darussalam for a period of not less 
than one year immediately 
preceding the date of their 
application for admission. 
 
(1)  
For the purposes of this definition, 
Manager means a business person within 
an organisation who primarily directs the 
organisation, or a department or sub-
division of the organisation, supervises 
and controls the work of other supervisory, 
professional or managerial employees, has 
the authority to hire and fire or commend 
hiring, firing or other personnel actions 
(such as promotion or leave authorisation), 
and exercises discretionary authority over 
day-to-day operations.  This does not 
include first-line supervisors, unless the 
employees supervised are professionals, 
nor does it include employees who 
primarily perform tasks necessary for the 
provision of the service. 
 
 
Temporary entry is limited to a three year 
period that may be extended for up to two 
additional years for a total term not to 
exceed five years. 
 
Temporary entry of spouses and 
dependants of ICTs is for the same period 
as the business persons concerned. 
 
Subject to laws, regulations and policies 
for spouses and dependants working as 
professionals supplying highly specialised 
services and core services in the energy 
sector the right to work is up to two years.    
Extensions are possible but may be subject 
to economic needs test. 
 
For spouses and dependants working as 
other types of professionals the right to 
work is for a total period up to 12 months 
or for the duration of the contract, 
whichever is shorter.  The initial right to 
work is for three months and may be 
extended in increments of up to three 
months.  Extensions beyond the 12 months 
period are possible but maybe subject to 
economic needs test. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 12-A – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 4 
 
(2)  
For the purposes of this definition, 
Executive means a business person within 
an organisation who primarily directs the 
management of the organisation, exercises 
wide latitude in decision-making and 
receives only general supervision or 
direction from higher-level executives, the 
board of directors or stockholders of the 
business.  Executives would not directly 
perform tasks related to the actual 
provision of the service or services of the 
organisation.  
 
(3)  
For the purposes of this definition, 
Specialist means a business person within 
an organisation who possesses knowledge 
at an advanced level of expertise and who 
possesses proprietary knowledge of the 
organisation’s service, research 
equipment, techniques or management. 
(Specialists may include, but are not 
limited to, professionals). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 12-A – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 5 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
D.  
Investors 
 
Definition:  
 
Investors means a business person who 
seeks to make an investment or has made 
investments in Brunei Darussalam, and 
seeks temporary entry for the purpose of 
dealing with any matters concerning that 
investment.  
 
 
 
Temporary entry is up to three months and 
can be extended for up to 12 months.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 12-A – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 6 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
E.  
Professionals 
 
Brunei Darussalam shall, upon application, grant temporary entry to the accompanying 
spouse and dependants of a business person of another Party. 
 
Subject to laws, regulations and policies, Brunei Darussalam shall grant temporary entry 
to accompanying spouses and dependants of a business person of another Party with the 
right to work as a ‘professional’, as defined in this Category, where that Party has also 
made a commitment in its schedule for spouses of Professionals or an equivalent 
category. 
 
Definition:  
 
Professionals means a business person 
who seeks to travel to Brunei Darussalam 
temporarily for the purpose of carrying 
out professional activities. 
 
The professional must possess 
appropriate educational and other 
qualifications relevant to the service to be 
provided.  
 
 
 
Temporary entry for professionals that fall 
under the highly specialised services and 
core services categories in the energy sector 
is for up to two years or for the duration of 
the contract, whichever is shorter. 
 
Temporary entry for other professionals is 
for a period of up to 12 months or for the 
duration of the contract, whichever is 
shorter. The initial entry period is for three 
months and may be extended in increments 
of up to three months.  
 
Temporary entry of spouses and dependants 
of professionals is for the same period as the 
business persons concerned. 
 
 
 
 
