 
 
 
ANNEX IV 
 
SCHEDULE OF CANADA 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:    Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
Article 17.6.1(c) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
Article 17.6.2(b) (Non-commercial Assistance)  
Article 17.6.2(c) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
   
Entity:  Bridge Authorities that manage international crossings, or 
any new, reorganised or transferee enterprise, with similar 
functions and objectives, that engage in the activities 
described below. 
 
The Bridge Authorities that manage international crossings 
are the Federal Bridge Corporation Limited and the 
Windsor-Detroit Bridge Authority. 
   
Scope of Non-Conforming  Canada, its state enterprises or state-owned enterprises may 
Activities:  provide the Entity or Entities with appropriations or 
assistance from funding programmes to manage 
international crossings, including the design, construction, 
operation and maintenance of the Entity’s or Entities’ 
crossings and any related infrastructure, which may involve 
the supply of services or commercial establishment outside 
the territory of Canada. 
   
Measures:  International Bridges and Tunnels Act, S.C. 2007, c. 1 
(and regulations thereof) 
And including any future amendments. 
 
 
   
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 1  
 
Obligations Concerned:    Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations), with respect to financial or 
housing-related services 
Article 17.4.1(b)(i) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations), with respect to financial or 
housing-related services 
Article 17.4.1(c)(i) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations), with respect to financial or 
housing-related services  
Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
 
Entity:  Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation and Canada 
Housing Trusts, or any new, reorganised or transferee 
enterprise, with similar functions and objectives. 
   
Scope of Non-Conforming  With respect to Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory 
Activities:  Treatment and Commercial Considerations), the Entity or 
Entities may take into account factors other than 
commercial considerations in the provision of financial or 
housing-related services such as: 
 
(a)  guarantees, mortgage insurance, loans and 
mortgage-backed securities; and 
(b)  management of nursing homes, retirement homes, 
on-reserve and rental housing and ancillary 
infrastructure, 
in furtherance of the mandate to support housing needs and 
housing affordability in Canada as set out in laws, 
regulations, policies or programmes.  
 
With respect to Article 17.4.1(b)(i) and Article 17.4.1(c)(i) 
(Non-discriminatory Treatment and Commercial 
Considerations) and as set out in applicable laws and 
regulations, policies or programmes, the Entity or Entities 
may: 
 
(a)  provide financial or housing-related services such 
as mortgage insurance, loans and advisory services 
only to enterprises in Canada or provide such 
services to enterprises in certain other countries; 
and 
(b)  purchase financial or housing-related services from 
enterprises in certain other countries. 
With respect to Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial 
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 2  
Assistance), Canada may provide the Entity or Entities 
with non-commercial assistance with respect to its supply 
of financial or housing-related services from Canada into 
the territory of another Party as set out in applicable laws, 
regulations, policies or programmes. 
   
Measures:  Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation Act, R.S.C. 
1985, c. C-7 
National Housing Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. N-11 
(and regulations thereof) 
And including any future amendments. 
 
   
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 3  
 
Obligations Concerned:    Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) 
Article 17.6.1(a) (Non-commercial Assistance), with respect 
to the production and sale of a good in competition with a 
like good produced and sold by a covered investment in the 
territory of Canada 
Article 17.6.2(a) (Non-commercial Assistance), with respect 
to the production and sale of a good in competition with a 
like good produced and sold by a covered investment in the 
territory of Canada  
Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
Article 17.6.2(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
   
Entity:   The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC), Telefilm 
Canada, and any new, reorganised or transferee enterprise 
related to cultural industries. 
   
Scope of Non-Conforming  Canadian Broadcasting Corporation 
Activities:   
With respect to Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory 
Treatment and Commercial Considerations), the CBC may 
take into account factors other than commercial 
considerations, and may accord preferences in its purchase 
and sale of goods and services to Canadian products, 
suppliers and persons, including: 
   
(a)  originate programmes, secure programmes from 
within or outside Canada by purchase, exchange or 
otherwise and make arrangements necessary for their 
transmission; 
 
(b)  make contracts with any person, within or outside 
Canada, in connection with the production or 
presentation of programmes originated or secured by 
the CBC; 
 
(c)  produce, distribute and sell such consumer products 
as may seem conducive to the attainment of the 
objects of the CBC; and 
 
(d)  do all such other things as the Board deems 
incidental or conducive to the attainment of the 
objects of the CBC. 
 
The preferences to goods and services described above are 
granted pursuant to Annex II – Canada – 16 (Cultural 
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 4  
Industries).  For greater certainty, Canada has not scheduled 
against Article 17.4.1(b), Article 17.4.1(c), Article 17.4.2(b) 
and Article 17.4.2(c) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) for these preferences by virtue 
of Article 17.2.11 (Scope). 
 
With respect to Article 17.6.1(a), Article 17.6.1(b), Article 
17.6.2(a) and Article 17.6.2(b) (Non-commercial 
Assistance), Canada or the CBC may provide non-
commercial assistance with respect to the production and 
sale of a good in competition with a like good produced and 
sold by a covered investment in the territory of Canada and 
the supply of a service from Canada to the territory of 
another Party. 
 
Telefilm Canada 
 
 
and sale of services to Canadian products, suppliers and 
persons, including: 
 
(a)   make loans to producers of individual Canadian 
productions and charge interest on those loans; and 
 
(b)   advise and assist Canadian producers in the 
distribution of their works and in the administrative 
functions of film production. 
 
 
 
 
-
supply a service from Canada to the territory of another 
Party. 
 
 
 
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 5  
A new, reorganised or transferee enterprise 
 
With respect to Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory 
Treatment and Commercial Considerations), a new, 
reorganised or transferee enterprise related to cultural 
industries may take into account factors other than 
commercial considerations, and may accord preferences in 
its purchase and sale of goods and services to Canadian 
products, suppliers and persons.  
 
The preferences to goods and services described above are 
granted pursuant to Annex II – Canada – 16 (Cultural 
Industries). For greater certainty, Canada has not scheduled 
against Article 17.4.1(b), Article 17.4.1(c), Article 17.4.2(b) 
and Article 17.4.2(c) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) for these preferences by virtue 
of Article 17.2.11 (Scope). 
 
With respect to Article 17.6.1(a), Article 17.6.1(b), Article 
17.6.2(a) and Article 17.6.2(b) (Non-commercial 
Assistance), Canada or a new, reorganised or transferee 
enterprise related to cultural industries may provide non-
commercial assistance with respect to the production and 
sale of a good in competition with a like good produced and 
sold by a covered investment in the territory of Canada and 
the supply of a service from Canada to the territory of 
another Party. 
 
For the purpose of this reservation, “cultural industries” 
means persons engaged in any of the following activities: 
 
(a)  the publication, distribution, or sale of books, 
magazines, periodicals or newspapers in print or 
machine readable form but not including the sole 
activity of printing or typesetting any of the 
foregoing; 
 
(b)  the production, distribution, sale or exhibition of film 
or video recordings; 
 
(c)  the production, distribution, sale or exhibition of 
audio or video music recordings; 
 
(d)  the publication, distribution or sale of music in print 
or machine readable form; or 
 
(e)   radiocommunications in which the transmissions are 
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 6  
intended for direct reception by the general public, 
and all radio, television and cable broadcasting 
undertakings and all satellite programming and 
broadcast network services. 
   
Measures:  Broadcasting Act, S.C. 1991, C. 11 
Telefilm Canada Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. C-16 
(and regulations thereof) 
And including any future amendments. 
 
   
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 7  
 
Obligations Concerned:    Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) 
Article 17.4.1(c)(i) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) 
Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
   
Entity:  Canadian Commercial Corporation, or any new, reorganised 
or transferee enterprise, with similar functions and 
objectives, that engages in the activities described below. 
   
Scope of Non-Conforming  With respect to Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory 
Activities:  Treatment and Commercial Considerations), the Entity or 
Entities may restrict the sale of services associated with 
facilitating the import or export of goods or services to 
enterprises located within Canada as set out in applicable 
laws, regulations, policies and practices. 
 
With respect to Article 17.4.1(c)(i) (Non-discriminatory 
Treatment and Commercial Considerations), the Entity or 
Entities may accord preferences in the sale of services 
associated with facilitating the import or export of goods or 
services to or from certain countries based on bilateral 
arrangements with the relevant country. 
 
With respect to Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial 
Assistance), Canada may provide the Entity or Entities with 
non-commercial assistance with respect to its supply of a 
service from Canada into the territory of another Party 
associated with facilitating the import or export of goods 
and services, as set out in applicable laws, regulations and 
policies. 
   
Measures:  Canadian Commercial Corporation Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. C14 
(and regulations thereof) 
And including any future amendments. 
 
   
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 8  
 
Obligations Concerned:    Article 17.6.1(a) (Non-commercial Assistance), with respect 
to the production and sale of a good in competition with a 
like good produced and sold by a covered investment in the 
territory of Canada 
Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
   
Entity:  Canadian Dairy Commission, or any new, reorganised or 
transferee enterprise, with similar functions and objectives. 
   
Scope of Non-Conforming  With respect to Article 17.6.1(a) (Non-commercial 
Activities:  Assistance), Canada may provide the Entity or Entities with 
non-commercial assistance with respect to the production 
and sale of dairy products in the territory of Canada 
pursuant to the Canadian Dairy Commission Act. 
 
With respect to Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial 
Assistance), Canada may provide the Entity or Entities with 
non-commercial assistance regarding services related to the 
cross-border trade of dairy products (export and import) 
such as shipping, insuring and wholesale trade and 
distribution, pursuant to the Canadian Dairy Commission 
Act. 
   
Measures:  Canadian Dairy Commission Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. C-15 
(and regulations thereof) 
And including any future amendments. 
 
   
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 9  
 
Obligations Concerned:    Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) with respect to the purchase of 
a good or service 
Article 17.4.1(b) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) 
   
Entity:  All existing and future state-owned enterprises 
   
Scope of Non-Conforming  The Entity or Entities may accord more favourable 
Activities:  treatment to aboriginal persons and organisations in the 
purchase of goods and services. 
   
Measures:  Constitution Act, 1982, being Schedule B of the Canada Act 
1982 (U.K.), 1982, c. 11 
 
ANNEX IV – CANADA – 10 