 
 
ANNEX IV 
 
SCHEDULE OF BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 
 
 
Obligations Concerned:  Article 17.4.1(a) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations), with respect to the purchase 
of services 
   
Entity:  All state-owned enterprises engaged in the petroleum 
industry. 
   
Scope of Non-  Unless as may otherwise be authorised, the Government of 
conforming Activities:  Brunei Darussalam may require an Entity involved in the 
  petroleum industry within the territory of Brunei 
Darussalam to purchase the services listed in Appendix A to 
Annex I – Brunei Darussalam – 36 either from: 
(a)  Brunei nationals or enterprises; or; 
 
(b)  foreign nationals or enterprises under an 
arrangement or contract, provided they engage 
Brunei nationals or enterprises to provide these 
services. 
 
The preferences to services described above are granted 
pursuant to the entry at Annex I – Brunei Darussalam – 36.  
For greater certainty, Brunei has not scheduled against 
Article 17.4.1(b) (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) for these preferences by virtue 
of Article 17.2.11 (Scope).  
 
Measures:  Local Business Development Directive No. 2 of the Energy 
Department, Prime Minister’s Office  
 
   
ANNEX IV – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 1  
Obligations Concerned:  Article  17.4.1(a)  (Non-discriminatory  Treatment  and 
Commercial  Considerations),  with  respect  to  the  sale  of 
goods or services. 
Article  17.4.2(a)  (Non-discriminatory  Treatment  and 
Commercial  Considerations),  with  respect  to  the  sale  of 
goods or services. 
   
Entity:  All state-owned enterprises or designated monopolies 
engaged in the supply of natural gas or manufactured 
petrochemical products and their derivatives. 
   
Scope of Non-  Brunei Darussalam may require the Entity to accord 
conforming Activities:  preferential rates in the sale of natural gas or manufactured 
petrochemical products and their derivatives: 
 
(a)  for the purposes of power generation;   
 
(b)  promoting foreign investment; or 
 
(c)  promoting the  development of economic activity, 
 
in the territory of Brunei Darussalam.  
   
 
   
ANNEX IV – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 2  
Obligations Concerned:  Article 17.6.1(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
Article 17.6.2(b) (Non-commercial Assistance) 
 
Entity:  Brunei National Petroleum Company Sdn. Bhd., PB 
Trading Sdn. Bhd. and PB Services Sdn. Bhd. and their 
successors.   
 
Scope of Non-  Brunei Darussalam may provide non-commercial assistance 
conforming Activities:  to the Entity with respect to its supply of the following 
services:  
 
(a)   marketing of crude oil, liquefied natural gas, 
methanol and other petroleum products;  
 
(b)  drilling mud supply services;  
 
(c)  plug and abandonment services; 
 
(d)  wireline services; and 
 
(e)  asset integrity repair and maintenance services in 
  the oil and gas industry, including power 
  generation services. 
 
Transition Period:  This entry shall cease to have effect three years after entry 
into force of this Agreement for Brunei Darussalam. 
 
   
ANNEX IV – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 3  
Obligations Concerned:  Article 17.4 (Non-discriminatory Treatment and 
Commercial Considerations) 
Article 17.6 (Non-commercial Assistance) 
 
Entity:  Brunei Investment Agency and any other special purpose 
investment fund owned by the Brunei Investment Agency, 
or the Government of Brunei Darussalam that engages 
exclusively in the scope of activities described below. 
   
Scope of Non-  Investment and asset management, using the financial assets 
conforming Activities:  of the Government of Brunei Darussalam. 
Brunei Darussalam has been an observer of the Working 
Group of the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth 
Funds (“the Forum”) and is exploring membership of the 
Forum.  
 
 
ANNEX IV – BRUNEI DARUSSALAM – 4 