 ANNEX 12-A – SINGAPORE – 1   SINGAPORE’S SCHEDULE OF COMMITMENTS FOR TEMPORARY ENTRY FOR BUSINESS PERSONS   1. The following sets out Singapore’s commitments in accordance with Article 12.4 (Grant of Temporary Entry) in respect of the temporary entry for business persons.  2. Notwithstanding the definition of “business person” in Article 12.1 (Definitions), Singapore’s commitments shall not extend to the permanent residents of another Party.  Description of Category  Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) A.  Business Visitors   Definition:  1.  Business Visitors are business persons who are seeking temporary entry into Singapore for business activity that is international in scope, and not seeking employment or residence in Singapore.  Their primary source of remuneration, principal place of business and predominant place of accrual of profits remain outside Singapore.  2.  They may seek entry for the purpose of :  (a)  conducting or attending business-related conferences, seminars or workshops;   (b)  negotiating the sale of services or goods where such negotiations do not involve direct sales to the general public.     Entry of Business Visitors shall be subject to the fulfilment of eligibility requirements prevailing at the time of application.  These details can be found at the website of the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (website address is http://www.ica.gov.sg/page.aspx?pageid=95&secid=94).  Entry for these business visitors is for up to 30 days.     ANNEX 12-A – SINGAPORE – 2  Description of Category  Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) B.  Investors    Definition:  Investors refer to business persons responsible for setting up, developing or administering an establishment for which a substantial amount of capital has been or will be committed by the business person in a supervisory or executive capacity, or involves essential skills.    Entry of Investors shall be subject to the fulfilment of eligibility requirements prevailing at the time of application.  These details can be found at the website of the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (website address is http://www.ica.gov.sg/page.aspx?pageid=95&secid=94).  Entry for these investors is for up to 30 days.   