ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 1   JAPAN’S SCHEDULE OF COMMITMENTS FOR TEMPORARY ENTRY FOR BUSINESS PERSONS   1. The following sets out Japan’s commitments in accordance with Article 12.4 (Grant of Temporary Entry) in respect of the temporary entry of business persons.  2. Japan extends its commitments under this Annex to all Parties regardless of the categories offered by the other Parties.  3. For the purposes of this schedule, the term “CPC” means the Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991).  Description of Category Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) A.  Short-Term Business Visitors   Definition:  A business person who stays in Japan without acquiring remuneration from within Japan and without engaging in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying goods or services himself or herself, for the purposes of participating in business contacts including negotiations for the sale of goods or services, or other similar activities including those to prepare for establishing commercial presence in Japan.     Temporary entry for a period not exceeding 90 days, which may be extended, shall be granted.     ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 2 Description of Category Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) B.  Intra-Corporate Transferees  1.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category provided that such spouse and children are recognised as such in accordance with the laws and regulations of Japan, obtain maintenance from the business person and engage in daily activities recognised under the status of residence of “Dependent” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act (Cabinet Order No.319 of 1951, as amended).  2.  A spouse who has been granted temporary entry in accordance with paragraph 1 may, upon application while residing in Japan, have his or her status of residence changed to that under which he or she is allowed to work, subject to the approval of the Government of Japan in accordance with the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.   Definition:  A business person who has been employed by an enterprise that supplies goods or services in Japan or by an enterprise that invests in Japan, for a period of not less than one year immediately preceding the date of his or her application for temporary entry into Japan, who is being transferred to its branch office or its representative office in Japan, or an enterprise constituted or organised in Japan owned or controlled by or affiliated with the aforementioned enterprise, and who will engage in one of the following activities during his or her temporary stay in Japan:  (a) activities to direct a branch office or a representative office as its head;  (b) activities to direct an enterprise as its board member or auditor;  (c) activities to direct one or more departments of an enterprise; or  (d) activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to natural sciences, including physical sciences and engineering, or to human sciences, including    Temporary entry for a period not exceeding five years, which may be extended, shall be granted.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category, in principle for the same period as the period of temporary entry granted to the business person.  ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 3 jurisprudence, economics, business management and accounting, or activities which require ideas and sensitivity based on culture of a country other than Japan, recognised under the status of residence of “Engineer/Specialist in Humanities/International Services” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.  Note 1: For the purposes of this Section, an enterprise is “affiliated” with another enterprise when the latter can significantly affect the decision-making of the former on finance and business policy.  Note 2: The activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to natural or human sciences referred to in subparagraph (d) mean the activities in which the business person may not be able to engage without the application of specialised technology or knowledge of natural or human sciences acquired by him or her, in principle, by completing college education (i.e. bachelor’s degree, associate’s degree awarded through graduating from a junior college, or their equivalents) or higher education.     ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 4 Description of Category Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) C.  Investors  1.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category provided that such spouse and children are recognised as such in accordance with the laws and regulations of Japan, obtain maintenance from the business person and engage in daily activities recognised under the status of residence of “Dependent” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.  2.  A spouse who has been granted temporary entry in accordance with paragraph 1 may, upon application while residing in Japan, have his or her status of residence changed to that under which he or she is allowed to work, subject to the approval of the Government of Japan in accordance with the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.   Definition:  A business person who will engage in one of the following activities during his or her temporary stay in Japan:  (a) activities to invest in business in Japan and manage such business;  (b) activities to manage business in Japan on behalf of a person other than that of Japan who has invested in such business; or  (c)  conduct of business in Japan in which a person other than that of Japan has invested.     Temporary entry for a period not exceeding five years, which may be extended, shall be granted.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category, in principle for the same period as the period of temporary entry granted to the business person.     ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 5  Description of Category Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) D.  Qualified Professionals  1.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category provided that such spouse and children are recognised as such in accordance with the laws and regulations of Japan, obtain maintenance from the business person and engage in daily activities recognised under the status of residence of “Dependent” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.  2.  A spouse who has been granted temporary entry in accordance with paragraph 1 may, upon application while residing in Japan, have his or her status of residence changed to that under which he or she is allowed to work, subject to the approval of the Government of Japan in accordance with the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.   Definition:  A business person who is a legal, accounting or taxation service supplier qualified under the laws and regulations of Japan (as specified in the subparagraphs below) and who will engage in the corresponding activity specified therein during his or her temporary stay in Japan:  (a) legal services supplied by a lawyer qualified as “Bengoshi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;  (b)  legal advisory services on law of jurisdiction where the service supplier is a qualified lawyer on condition that the service supplier is qualified as “Gaikoku-Ho-Jimu-Bengoshi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;   (c) legal services supplied by a patent attorney qualified as “Benrishi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;   (d) legal services supplied by a maritime procedure agent qualified as “Kaijidairishi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;     Temporary entry for a period not exceeding five years, which may be extended, shall be granted.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category, in principle for the same period as the period of temporary entry granted to the business person.  ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 6 (e) accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services supplied by an accountant qualified as “Koninkaikeishi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;  (f) taxation services supplied by a tax accountant qualified as “Zeirishi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;  (g) legal services supplied by a judicial scrivener qualified as “Shiho-Shoshi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;  (h) legal services supplied by an administrative scrivener qualified as “Gyosei-Shoshi” under the laws and regulations of Japan;  (i) legal services supplied by a certified social insurance and labour consultant qualified as “Shakai-Hoken-Romushi” under the laws and regulations of Japan; or  (j) legal services supplied by a land and house surveyor qualified as “Tochi-Kaoku-Chosashi” under the laws and regulations of Japan.     ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 7 Description of Category Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) E.  Independent Professionals  1.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category provided that such spouse and children are recognised as such in accordance with the laws and regulations of Japan, obtain maintenance from the business person and engage in daily activities recognised under the status of residence of “Dependent” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.  2.  A spouse who has been granted temporary entry in accordance with paragraph 1 may, upon application while residing in Japan, have his or her status of residence changed to that under which he or she is allowed to work, subject to the approval of the Government of Japan in accordance with the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.   Definition:  A business person who will engage in one of the following activities during his or her temporary stay in Japan on the basis of a personal contract with a public or private organisation in Japan:  (a) activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to natural sciences, including physical sciences and engineering, or to human sciences, including jurisprudence, economics, business management and accounting, or activities which require ideas and sensitivity based on culture of a country other than Japan, recognised under the status of residence of “Engineer/Specialist in Humanities/International Services” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act; or  (b) activities for research, guidance of research, or education at a university in Japan, an equivalent educational institution in Japan, or a college of technology in Japan, recognised    Temporary entry for a period not exceeding five years, which may be extended, shall be granted.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category, in principle for the same period as the period of temporary entry granted to the business person.  ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 8 under the status of residence of “Professor”  provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.   Note 1: The activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to natural or human sciences referred to in subparagraph (a) mean the activities in which the business person may not be able to engage without the application of specialised technology or knowledge of natural or human sciences acquired by him or her, in principle, by completing college education (i.e. bachelor’s degree, associate’s degree awarded through graduating from a junior college, or their equivalents) or higher education.  Note 2: The activities that meet the requirement specified in subparagraph (a) include those related to architectural services, civil engineering services, urban planning and landscape architectural services, accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services, specialty design services, trade fair and exhibition organisation services, travel agencies and tour operator services and tourist guide services.     ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 9 Description of Category Conditions and Limitations (including length of stay) F.  Contractual Service Suppliers  1.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category provided that such spouse and children are recognised as such in accordance with the laws and regulations of Japan, obtain maintenance from the business person and engage in daily activities recognised under the status of residence of “Dependent” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.  2.  A spouse who has been granted temporary entry in accordance with paragraph 1 may, upon application while residing in Japan, have his or her status of residence changed to that under which he or she is allowed to work, subject to the approval of the Government of Japan in accordance with the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.   Definition:  1.  A business person who is an employee of a public or private organisation in another Party having no commercial presence in Japan (hereinafter referred to in this Section as “the other organisation”) and who will engage in one of the following activities during his or her temporary stay in Japan:  (a) activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to natural sciences, including physical sciences and engineering, or to human sciences, including jurisprudence, economics, business management and accounting, or activities which require ideas and sensitivity based on culture of a country other than Japan, recognised under the status of residence of “Engineer/Specialist in Humanities/International Services” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act; or  (b) activities for research, guidance of research, or education at a university    Temporary entry for a period not exceeding five years, which may be extended, shall be granted.  Temporary entry shall be granted to a spouse and children accompanying a business person who has been granted temporary entry under this category, in principle for the same period as the period of temporary entry granted to the business person.  ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 10 in Japan, an equivalent educational institution in Japan, or a college of technology in Japan, recognised under the status of residence of “Professor” provided for in the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act.  Note 1: The activities which require technology or knowledge at an advanced level pertinent to natural or human sciences referred to in subparagraph (a) mean the activities in which the business person may not be able to engage without the application of specialised technology or knowledge of natural or human sciences acquired by him or her, in principle, by completing college education (i.e. bachelor’s degree, associate’s degree awarded through graduating from a junior college, or their equivalents) or higher education.  Note 2: The activities that meet the requirement specified in subparagraph (a) include those related to architectural services, civil engineering services, urban planning and landscape architectural services, accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services, specialty design services, trade fair and exhibition organisation services, travel agencies and tour operator services and tourist guide services.  2.  Temporary entry referred to in this Section shall be granted, provided that:  (a)  a service contract between a public or private organisation in Japan (hereinafter referred to in this Section as “the Japanese organisation”) and the other organisation has been concluded; and  (b)  it is recognised, in the context of the service contract referred to in subparagraph (a), that a labour contract between the business person and the Japanese organisation has ANNEX 12-A – JAPAN – 11 been concluded.  Note 1: The service contract for the placement and supply services of personnel (CPC872) shall be excluded from the service contract referred to in subparagraph (a).  Note 2: Such a labour contract as referred to in subparagraph (b) shall comply with the relevant laws and regulations of Japan.   