 
 
 
CHAPTER 28 
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
Section A:  Dispute Settlement 
 
 
Article 28.1:  Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
complaining Party means a Party that requests the establishment of a panel under 
Article 28.7.1 (Establishment of a Panel);  
 
consulting Party means a Party that requests consultations under Article 28.5.1 
(Consultations) or the Party to which the request for consultations is made; 
 
disputing Party means a complaining Party or a responding Party; 
 
panel means a panel established under Article 28.7 (Establishment of a Panel); 
 
perishable goods means perishable agricultural and fish goods classified in HS 
Chapters 1 through 24; 
 
responding Party means a Party that has been complained against under Article 
28.7 (Establishment of a Panel); 
 
Rules  of  Procedure  means  the  rules  referred  to  in  Article  28.13  (Rules  of 
Procedure  for  Panels)  and  established  in  accordance  with  Article  27.2.1(f) 
(Functions of the Commission); and 
 
third Party means a Party, other than a disputing Party, that delivers a written 
notice in accordance with Article 28.14 (Third Party Participation). 
 
 
Article 28.2:  Cooperation  
 
The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation and 
application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt through cooperation 
and consultations to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that 
might affect its operation or application.  
 
 
28-1  
Article 28.3:  Scope  
 
1.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  the  dispute  settlement 
provisions of this Chapter shall apply: 
 
(a)  with respect to the avoidance or settlement of all disputes between 
the  Parties  regarding  the  interpretation  or  application  of  this 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  when  a  Party  considers  that  an  actual  or  proposed  measure  of 
another Party is or would be inconsistent with an obligation of this 
Agreement or that another Party has otherwise failed to carry out 
an obligation under this Agreement; or    
 
(c)  when a Party considers that a benefit it could reasonably have 
expected to accrue to it under Chapter 2 (National Treatment and 
Market Access for Goods), Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin and Origin 
Procedures), Chapter 4 (Textile and Apparel Goods), Chapter 5 
(Customs  Administration  and  Trade  Facilitation),  Chapter  8 
(Technical Barriers to Trade), Chapter 10 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services)  or  Chapter  15  (Government  Procurement),  is  being 
nullified or impaired as a result of the application of a measure of 
another Party that is not inconsistent with this Agreement.  
 
2.  No later than six months after the effective date that Members of the WTO 
have the right to initiate non-violation nullification or impairment complaints 
under Article 64 of the TRIPS Agreement, the Parties shall consider whether to 
amend paragraph 1(c) to include Chapter 18 (Intellectual Property). 
 
3.  An instrument entered into by two or more Parties in connection with the 
conclusion of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  does not constitute an instrument related to this Agreement within 
the  meaning  of  paragraph  2(b)  of  Article  31  of  the  Vienna 
Convention on the Law of Treaties, done at Vienna on May 23, 
1969  and  shall  not  affect  the  rights  and  obligations  under  this 
Agreement of Parties which are not party to the instrument; and 
   
(b)  may be subject  to  the dispute settlement  procedures under this 
Chapter  for  any  matter  arising  under  the  instrument  if  that 
instrument so provides. 
 
 
Article 28.4:  Choice of Forum 
 
1.  If a dispute regarding any matter arises under this Agreement and under 
another international trade agreement to which the disputing Parties are party, 
28-2  
including the WTO Agreement, the complaining Party may select the forum in 
which to settle the dispute. 
 
2.  Once a complaining Party has requested the establishment of, or referred a 
matter to, a panel or other tribunal under an agreement referred to in paragraph 1, 
the forum selected shall be used to the exclusion of other fora.  
 
 
Article 28.5:  Consultations  
 
1.  Any Party may request consultations with any other Party with respect to 
any matter described in Article 28.3 (Scope).  The Party making the request for 
consultations shall do so in writing, and shall set out the reasons for the request, 
including identification of the actual or proposed measure1 or other matter at issue 
and an indication of the legal basis for the complaint.  The requesting Party shall 
circulate the request concurrently to the other Parties through the overall contact 
points designated under Article 27.5.1 (Contact Points). 
 
2.   The Party to which a request for consultations is made shall, unless the 
consulting Parties agree otherwise, reply in writing to the request no later than 
seven days after the date of its receipt of the request.2  That Party shall circulate 
its reply concurrently to the other Parties through the overall contact points and 
enter into consultations in good faith.  
 
3.  A Party other than a consulting Party that considers it has a substantial 
interest in the matter may participate in the consultations by notifying the other 
Parties in writing no later than seven days after the date of circulation of the 
request for consultations.  The Party shall include in its notice an explanation of 
its substantial interest in the matter. 
 
4.   Unless  the  consulting  Parties  agree  otherwise,  they  shall  enter  into 
consultations no later than:  
 
(a)   15  days  after  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  request  for  matters 
concerning perishable goods; or  
 
(b)   30 days after the date of receipt of the request for all other matters. 
 
5.  Consultations  may  be  held  in  person  or  by  any  technological  means 
                                                 
1  The Parties shall, in the case of a proposed measure, make every effort to make the request for 
consultation under this provision within 60 days of the date of publication of the proposed 
measure, without prejudice to the right to make such request at any time. 
2  For greater certainty, if the Party to which a request for consultations is made does not reply 
within the time period specified in this paragraph, it shall be deemed to have received the request 
seven days after the date on which the Party making the request for consultations transmitted that 
request. 
28-3  
available to the consulting Parties.  If the consultations are held in person, they 
shall be held in the capital of the Party to which the request for consultations was 
made, unless the consulting Parties agree otherwise.  
 
6.  The  consulting  Parties  shall  make  every  attempt  to  reach  a  mutually 
satisfactory resolution of the matter through consultations under this Article.  To 
this end: 
 
(a)  each consulting Party shall provide sufficient information to enable 
a full examination of how the actual or proposed measure might 
affect the operation or application of this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  a  Party  that  participates  in  the  consultations  shall  treat  any 
information exchanged in the course of the consultations that is 
designated as confidential on the same basis as the Party providing 
the information. 
 
7.  In consultations under this Article, a consulting Party may request that 
another consulting Party make available personnel of its government agencies or 
other regulatory bodies who have expertise in the matter at issue. 
 
8.  Consultations shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of 
any Party in any other proceedings. 
 
 
Article 28.6:  Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation  
 
1.  Parties  may  at  any  time  agree  to  voluntarily  undertake  an  alternative 
method of dispute resolution, such as good offices, conciliation or mediation. 
 
2.  Proceedings that involve good offices, conciliation or mediation shall be 
confidential  and  without  prejudice  to  the  rights  of  the  Parties  in  any  other 
proceedings. 
 
3.  Parties participating in proceedings under this Article may suspend or 
terminate those proceedings at any time. 
 
4.  If the disputing Parties agree, good offices, conciliation or mediation may 
continue while the dispute proceeds for resolution  before a  panel established 
under Article 28.7 (Establishment of a Panel). 
 
 
Article 28.7:  Establishment of a Panel  
 
1.  A Party that requested consultations under Article 28.5.1 (Consultations) 
may request, by means of a written notice addressed to the responding Party, the 
establishment of a panel if the consulting Parties fail to resolve the matter within: 
28-4  
 
(a)  a period of 60 days after the date of receipt of the request for 
consultations under Article 28.5.1 (Consultations); 
 
(b)  a period of 30 days after the date of receipt of the request for 
consultations  under  Article  28.5.1  (Consultations)  in  a  matter 
regarding perishable goods; or 
 
(c)  any other period as the consulting Parties may agree. 
 
2.   The  complaining  Party  shall  circulate  the  request  concurrently  to  all 
Parties through the overall contact points designated under Article 27.5.1 (Contact 
Points). 
 
3.   The complaining Party shall include in the request to establish a panel an 
identification of the measure or other matter at issue and a brief summary of the 
legal basis of the complaint sufficient to present the problem clearly.  
 
4.  A panel shall be established upon delivery of the request.  
 
5.  Unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise, the panel shall be composed 
in a manner consistent with this Chapter and the Rules of Procedure.  
 
6.  If  a  panel  has  been  established  regarding  a  matter  and  another  Party 
requests the establishment of a panel regarding the same matter, a single panel 
should be established to examine those complaints whenever feasible.   
 
7.  A panel shall not be established to review a proposed measure. 
 
 
Article 28.8:  Terms of Reference 
 
1.    Unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise no later than 20 days after the 
date of delivery of the request for the establishment of a panel, the terms of 
reference shall be to:  
 
(a)   examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
the matter referred to in the request for the establishment of a panel 
under Article 28.7.1 (Establishment of a Panel); and 
 
(b)   make  findings  and  determinations,  and  any  jointly  requested 
recommendations, together with its reasons therefor, as provided 
for in Article 28.17.4 (Initial Report).  
 
2.   If, in its request for the establishment of a panel, a complaining Party 
claims that a measure nullifies or impairs benefits within the meaning of Article 
28.3.1(c) (Scope), the terms of reference shall so indicate. 
28-5  
 
 
Article 28.9:  Composition of Panels    
 
1.  A panel shall be composed of three members. 
 
2.  Unless  the  disputing  Parties  agree  otherwise,  they  shall  apply  the 
following procedures to compose a panel: 
 
(a)  Within a period of 20 days after the date of delivery of the request 
for  the  establishment  of  a  panel  under  Article  28.7.1 
(Establishment of a Panel), the complaining Party or Parties, on the 
one  hand,  and  the  responding  Party,  on  the  other,  shall  each 
appoint a panellist and notify each other of those appointments.  
 
(b)  If the complaining Party or Parties fail to appoint a panellist within 
the period specified in  subparagraph (a), the dispute settlement 
proceedings shall lapse at the end of that period. 
 
(c)  If the responding Party fails to appoint a panellist within the period 
specified  in  subparagraph  (a),  the  complaining  Party  or  Parties 
shall select the panellist not yet appointed: 
 
(i)   from the responding Party’s list established under Article 
28.11.9 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists);  
 
(ii)   if  the  responding  Party  has  not  established  a  list  under 
Article 28.11.9 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists), from  the  roster  of panel  chairs  established  under 
Article 28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists); or 
 
(iii)  if  the  responding  Party  has  not  established  a  list  under 
Article 28.11.9 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific 
Lists) and no roster of panel chairs has been established 
under  Article  28.11  (Roster  of  Panel  Chairs  and  Party 
Specific Lists), by random selection from a list of three 
candidates nominated by the complaining Party or Parties, 
 
no later than 35 days after the date of delivery of the request for the 
establishment of a panel under Article 28.7.1 (Establishment of a 
Panel).  
 
(d)  For appointment of the third panellist, who shall serve as chair: 
 
(i)   the  disputing  Parties  shall  endeavour  to  agree  on  the 
appointment of a chair;  
28-6  
 
(ii)  if  the  disputing  Parties  fail  to  appoint  a  chair  under 
subparagraph  (d)(i)  by  the  time  the  second  panellist  is 
appointed or within a period of 35 days after the date of 
delivery  of the request  for the  establishment of a  panel 
under Article 28.7.1 (Establishment of a Panel), whichever 
is longer, the two panellists appointed shall, by agreement, 
appoint the chair from the roster established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists);   
 
(iii)  if the two panellists do not agree on the appointment of the 
chair under subparagraph (d)(ii) within a period of 43 days 
after  the  date  of  delivery  of  the  request  for  the 
establishment  of  a  panel  under  Article  28.7.1 
(Establishment of a Panel), the two panellists shall appoint 
the chair with the agreement of the disputing Parties; 
 
(iv)   if  the  two  panellists  fail  to  appoint  the  chair  under 
subparagraph (d)(iii) within a period of 55 days after the 
date of delivery of the request for the establishment of the 
panel, the disputing Parties shall select the chair by random 
selection from the roster established under Article 28.11 
(Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists) within a 
period of 60 days after the date of delivery of the request 
for the establishment of the panel; 
 
(v)   notwithstanding subparagraph (d)(iv), if the two panellists 
fail to appoint the chair under subparagraph (d)(iii) within a 
period of 55 days after the date of delivery of the request 
for the establishment of the panel, a disputing Party may 
elect to have the chair appointed from the roster established 
under  Article  28.11(Roster  of  Panel  Chairs  and  Party 
Specific Lists) by an independent third party, provided that 
the following conditions are met: 
 
(A)  any  costs  associated with  the appointment 
are borne by the electing Party;  
 
(B)  the request to the independent third party to 
appoint the chair shall be made jointly by the 
disputing  Parties.    Any  subsequent 
communication  between  a  disputing  Party 
and  the  independent  third  party  shall  be 
copied  to  the  other  disputing  Party  or 
Parties.  No disputing Party shall attempt to 
influence  the  independent  third  party’s 
appointment process; and 
28-7  
 
(C)  if the independent third party is unable or 
unwilling  to  complete  the  appointment  as 
requested within a period of 60 days after 
the date of delivery of the request for the 
establishment  of  the  panel,  then  the  chair 
shall be randomly selected within a further 
period of five days using the process set out 
in subparagraph (d)(iv); 
 
(vi)  if a roster has not  been established  under Article  28.11 
(Roster  of  Panel  Chairs  and  Party  Specific  Lists),  and 
subparagraphs  (d)(ii)  through  (v)  cannot  apply,  the 
complaining  Party  or  Parties,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
responding Party, on the other hand, may nominate three 
candidates.    The  chair  shall  be  randomly  selected  from 
those candidates that are nominated within a period of 60 
days  after  the  date  of  delivery  of  the  request  for  the 
establishment  of  a  panel  under  Article  28.7.1 
(Establishment of a Panel); and  
 
(vii)  notwithstanding subparagraph (d)(vi), if a roster has not 
been  established  under  Article  28.11  (Roster  of  Panel 
Chairs and Party Specific Lists), and subparagraphs (d)(i) 
through (v) cannot apply, a disputing Party may, following 
the nomination of candidates under subparagraph (d)(vi), 
elect to have the chair appointed from those candidates by 
an  independent  third  party,  provided  that  the  following 
conditions are met:  
 
(A)   any  costs  associated  with  such  appointment  are 
borne by the electing Party; 
 
(B)  the request to the independent third party to appoint 
the  chair  shall  be  made  jointly  by  the  disputing 
Parties.  Any subsequent communication between a 
disputing Party and the independent third party shall 
be copied to the other disputing Party or Parties.  No 
disputing  Party  shall  attempt  to  influence  the 
independent third party’s appointment process; and 
 
(C)  if the independent third party is unable or unwilling 
to complete the appointment as requested within a 
period of 60 days after the date of delivery of the 
request for the establishment of the panel, then the 
chair shall be randomly selected within a further 
period  of  five  days  using  the  process  set  out  in 
28-8  
subparagraph (vi). 
 
3.  Unless  the  disputing  Parties  agree  otherwise,  the  chair  shall  not  be  a 
national of any of the disputing Parties or a third Party and any nationals of the 
disputing Parties or a third Party appointed to the roster established under Article 
28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists) shall be excluded from a 
selection process under paragraph 2(d). 
 
4.  Each  disputing  Party  shall  endeavour  to  select  panellists  who  have 
expertise or experience relevant to the subject matter of the dispute.  
 
5.   For  a  dispute  arising  under  Chapter  19  (Labour),  Chapter  20 
(Environment) or Chapter 26 (Transparency and Anti-corruption), each disputing 
Party shall select panellists in accordance with the following requirements, in 
addition to those set out in Article 28.10.1 (Qualifications of Panellists):   
 
(a)   in any dispute arising under Chapter 19 (Labour), panellists other 
than the chair shall have expertise or experience in labour law or 
practice; 
 
(b)   in any dispute arising under Chapter 20 (Environment), panellists 
other  than  the  chair  shall  have  expertise  or  experience  in 
environmental law or practice; and 
 
(c)   in any dispute arising under section C of Chapter 26 (Transparency 
and  Anti-corruption),  panellists  other  than  the  chair  shall  have 
expertise or experience in anti-corruption law or practice. 
 
6.  If a panellist selected under paragraph 2 is unable to serve on the panel, 
the complaining Party, the responding Party, or the disputing Parties, as the case 
may  be,  shall,  no  later  than  seven  days  after  learning  that  the  panellist  is 
unavailable,  select  another  panellist  in  accordance  with  the  same  method  of 
selection that was used to select the panellist who is unable to serve, unless the 
disputing Parties agree otherwise. 
 
7.  If the process for selecting the new panellist under paragraph 6 is not 
completed within the time frame set out in that paragraph then the disputing 
Parties shall select the panellist by random selection from the roster established 
under Article 28.11 (Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists) no later than 
15 days after learning that the original panellist is no longer able to serve.   
 
8.  If a roster has not been established under Article 28.11 (Roster of Panel 
Chairs and Party Specific Lists) then the disputing Parties shall select the panellist 
by using the method of selection set out in paragraph 2(d)(vi) no later than 15 
days after learning that the original panellist is no longer able to serve. 
 
9.  If a panellist appointed under this Article resigns or becomes unable to 
28-9  
serve on the panel, either during the course of the proceeding or when the panel is 
reconvened  under  Article  28.20  (Non-Implementation  -  Compensation  and 
Suspension of Benefits) or Article 28.21 (Compliance Review), a replacement 
panellist shall be appointed within 15 days in accordance with paragraphs 6, 7 and 
8.  The replacement shall have all the powers and duties of the original panellist.  
The  work  of  the  panel  shall  be  suspended  pending  the  appointment  of  the 
replacement panellist, and all time frames set out in this Chapter and in the Rules 
of  Procedure  shall  be  extended  by  the  amount  of  time  that  the  work  was 
suspended. 
 
10.   If a disputing Party believes that a panellist is in violation of the code of 
conduct  referred  to  in  Article  28.10.1(d)  (Qualifications  of  Panellists),  the 
disputing Parties shall consult and, if they agree, the panellist shall be removed 
and a new panellist shall be selected in accordance with this Article.  
 
 
Article 28.10:  Qualifications of Panellists  
 
1.  All panellists shall: 
 
(a)  have  expertise  or  experience  in  law,  international  trade,  other 
matters covered by this Agreement or the resolution of disputes 
arising under international trade agreements; 
 
(b)  be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability and sound 
  judgment; 
 
(c)  be independent of, and not affiliated with or take instructions from, 
any Party; and 
 
(d)  comply with the code of conduct in the Rules of Procedure. 
 
 
2.  An individual shall not serve as a panellist for a dispute in which that 
person  has  participated  under  Article  28.6  (Good  Offices,  Conciliation  and 
Mediation). 
 
 
Article 28.11:  Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists 
 
Roster of Panel Chairs  
 
1.  No later than 120 days after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, 
those Parties for which this Agreement has come into force under Article 30.5 
(Entry into Force) shall establish a roster to be used for the selection of panel 
chairs. 
 
28-10  
2.  If  the  Parties  are  unable  to  establish  a  roster  within  the  time  period 
specified in paragraph 1, the Commission shall immediately convene to appoint 
individuals  to  the  roster.    Taking  into  account  the  nominations  made  under 
paragraph 4 and the qualifications set out in  Article 28.10 (Qualifications of 
Panellists), the Commission shall establish the roster no later than 180 days after 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
3.  The roster shall consist of at least 15 individuals, unless the Parties agree 
otherwise. 
 
4.  Each Party may nominate up to two individuals for the roster and may 
include up to one national of any Party among its nominations.  
 
5.  The Parties shall appoint individuals to the roster by consensus.  The roster 
may include up to one national of each Party.  
 
6.  Once established under paragraph 1 or 2, or if reconstituted following a 
review by the Parties, a roster shall remain in effect for a minimum of three years 
or  until  the  Parties  constitute  a  new  roster.    Members  of  the  roster  may  be 
reappointed. 
 
7.  The Parties may appoint a replacement at any time if a roster member is no 
longer willing or available to serve. 
 
8.  Subject to paragraphs 4 and 5, any acceding Party may nominate up to two 
individuals for the roster.  Either or both of those individuals may be included on 
the roster by consensus of the Parties.  
 
Party Specific Indicative List 
 
9.  At any time after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, a Party 
may establish a list of individuals who are willing and able to serve as panellists.  
 
10.  The  list  referred  to  in  paragraph  9  may  include  individuals  who  are 
nationals of that Party or non-nationals.  Each Party may appoint any number of 
individuals to its list and appoint additional individuals or replace a list member at 
any time. 
 
11.  A  Party  that  establishes  a  list  in  accordance  with  paragraph  9  shall 
promptly make it available to the other Parties. 
 
 
Article 28.12:  Function of Panels  
 
1.  A panel’s function is to make an objective assessment of the matter before 
it,  which  includes  an  examination  of  the  facts  and  the  applicability  of  and 
conformity with this Agreement, and to make the findings, determinations and 
28-11  
recommendations as are called for in its terms of reference and necessary for the 
resolution of the dispute.  
 
2.    Unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise, the panel shall perform its 
functions and conduct its proceedings in a manner consistent with this Chapter 
and the Rules of Procedure. 
 
3.  The panel shall consider this Agreement in accordance with the rules of 
interpretation under international law as reflected in Articles 31 and 32 of the 
Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (1969).  With respect to any provision 
of the WTO Agreement that has been incorporated into this Agreement, the panel 
shall also consider relevant interpretations in reports of panels and the WTO 
Appellate Body adopted by the WTO Dispute Settlement Body.  The findings, 
determinations and recommendations of the panel shall not add to or diminish the 
rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement. 
 
4.  A panel shall take its decisions by consensus, except that, if a panel is 
unable to reach consensus, it may take its decisions by majority vote. 
 
 
Article 28.13:  Rules of Procedure for Panels 
 
The Rules of Procedure, established under this Agreement in accordance with 
Article 27.2.1(f) (Functions of the Commission), shall ensure that:  
  
(a)   disputing Parties have the right to at least one hearing before the 
panel at which each may present views orally;  
 
(b)   subject to subparagraph (f), any hearing before the panel shall be 
open to the public, unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise; 
 
(c)   each disputing Party has an opportunity to provide an initial and a 
rebuttal written submission; 
 
(d)   subject to subparagraph (f), each disputing Party shall:  
 
(i)  make its best efforts to release to the public its written 
submissions,  written  version  of  an  oral  statement  and 
written response to a request or question from the panel, if 
any, as soon as possible after those documents are filed; 
and 
 
(ii)   if not already released, release all these documents by the 
time the final report of the panel is issued; 
 
(e)   the panel shall consider requests from non-governmental entities 
located in the territory of a disputing Party to provide written views 
28-12  
regarding the dispute that may assist the panel in evaluating the 
submissions and arguments of the disputing Parties; 
 
(f)   confidential information is protected; 
 
(g)   written submissions and oral arguments shall be made in English, 
unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise; and  
 
(h)   unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise, hearings shall be held 
in the capital of the responding Party. 
 
 
Article 28.14:  Third Party Participation 
 
  A Party that is not a disputing Party and that considers it has an interest in 
the matter before the panel shall, on delivery of a written notice to the disputing 
Parties, be entitled to attend all hearings, make written submissions, present views 
orally to the panel, and receive written submissions of the disputing Parties.  The 
Party shall provide written notice no later than 10 days after the date of circulation 
of  the  request  for  the  establishment  of  the  panel  under  Article  28.7.2 
(Establishment of a Panel). 
 
 
Article 28.15:  Role of Experts 
 
  At the request of a disputing Party, or on its own initiative, a panel may 
seek information and technical advice from any person or body that it deems 
appropriate, provided that the disputing Parties agree and subject to any terms and 
conditions agreed by the disputing Parties.  The disputing Parties shall have an 
opportunity to comment on any information or advice obtained under this Article. 
 
 
Article 28.16:  Suspension or Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.  The  panel  may  suspend  its  work  at  any  time  at  the  request  of  the 
complaining Party or, if there is more than one complaining Party, at the joint 
request of the complaining Parties, for a period not to exceed 12 consecutive 
months.  The panel shall suspend its work at any time if the disputing Parties 
request it to do so.  In the event of a suspension, the time frames set out in this 
Chapter and in the Rules of Procedure shall be extended by the amount of time 
that the work was suspended.  If the work of the panel is suspended for more than 
12 consecutive months, the panel proceedings shall lapse unless the disputing 
Parties agree otherwise. 
 
2.  The panel shall terminate its proceedings if the disputing Parties request it 
to do so. 
 
28-13  
 
Article 28.17:  Initial Report 
 
1.  The panel shall draft its report without the presence of any Party. 
 
2.  The  panel  shall  base  its  report  on  the  relevant  provisions  of  this 
Agreement, the submissions and arguments of the disputing Parties and any third 
Parties, and on any information or advice put before it under Article 28.15 (Role 
of Experts).  At the joint request of the disputing Parties, the panel may make 
recommendations for the resolution of the dispute. 
 
3.  The panel shall present an initial report to the disputing Parties no later 
than 150 days after the date of the appointment of the last panellist.  In cases of 
urgency, including those related to perishable goods, the panel shall endeavour to 
present an initial report to the disputing Parties no later than 120 days after the 
date of the appointment of the last panellist. 
 
4.  The initial report shall contain: 
 
(a)  findings of fact; 
 
(b)  the determination of the panel as to whether:   
 
(i)   the measure at issue is inconsistent with obligations in this 
Agreement;  
 
(ii)     a Party has otherwise failed to carry out its obligations in 
this Agreement; or  
 
(iii)  the measure at issue is causing nullification or impairment 
within the meaning of Article 28.3.1(c) (Scope);  
 
(c)  any other determination requested in the terms of reference;  
 
(d)  recommendations, if the disputing Parties have jointly requested 
them, for the resolution of the dispute; and  
 
(e)  the reasons for the findings and determinations. 
 
5.  In exceptional cases, if the panel considers that it cannot release its initial 
report within the time period specified in paragraph 3, it shall inform the disputing 
Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together with an estimate of when it 
will issue its report.  A delay shall not exceed an additional period of 30 days 
unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise.  
 
6.  Panellists  may  present  separate  opinions  on  matters  not  unanimously 
agreed.  
28-14  
 
7.  A disputing Party may submit written comments to the panel on its initial 
report no later than 15 days after the presentation of the initial report or within 
another period as the disputing Parties may agree. 
 
8.  After considering any written comments by the disputing Parties on the 
initial report, the panel may modify its report and make any further examination it 
considers appropriate. 
 
 
Article 28.18:  Final Report  
 
1.  The panel shall present a final report to the disputing Parties, including 
any separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, no later than 30 days 
after presentation of the initial report, unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise.  
After taking any steps to protect confidential information, and no later than 15 
days after the presentation of the final report, the disputing Parties shall release 
the final report to the public. 
 
2.  No panel shall, either in its initial report or its final report, disclose which 
panellists are associated with majority or minority opinions. 
 
 
Article 28.19:  Implementation of Final Report 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  the  importance  of  prompt  compliance  with 
determinations made by panels under Article 28.18 (Final Report) in achieving the 
aim of the dispute settlement procedures in this Chapter, which is to secure a 
positive solution to disputes. 
 
2.  If in its final report the panel determines that:   
 
(a)  the measure at issue is inconsistent with a Party’s obligations in 
this Agreement;  
 
(b)  a Party has otherwise failed to carry out its obligations  in this 
Agreement; or  
 
(c)   the measure at issue is causing nullification or impairment within 
the meaning of Article 28.3.1(c) (Scope), 
 
the responding Party shall, whenever possible, eliminate the non-conformity or 
the nullification or impairment.  
 
3.  Unless the disputing Parties agree otherwise, the responding Party shall 
have a reasonable period of time in which to eliminate the non-conformity or 
nullification or impairment if it is not practicable to do so immediately. 
28-15  
 
4.  The disputing Parties shall endeavour to agree on the reasonable period of 
time.  If the disputing Parties fail to agree on the reasonable period of time within 
a period of 45 days after the presentation of the final report under Article 28.18.1 
(Final  Report),  any  disputing  Party  may,  no  later  than  60  days  after  the 
presentation of the final report under Article 28.18.1 (Final Report), refer the 
matter to the chair to determine the reasonable period of time through arbitration.  
 
5.  The chair shall take into consideration as a guideline that the reasonable 
period of time should not exceed 15 months from the presentation of the final 
report under Article 28.18.1 (Final Report).  However, that time may be shorter or 
longer, depending upon the particular circumstances.  
 
6.  The chair shall determine the reasonable period of time no later than 90 
days after the date of referral to the chair under paragraph 4. 
 
7.  The  disputing  Parties  may  agree  to  vary  the  procedures  set  out  in 
paragraphs 4 through 6 for the determination of the reasonable period of time. 
 
 
Article 28.20:  Non-Implementation – Compensation and Suspension of 
Benefits 
 
1.   The  responding  Party  shall,  if  requested  by  the  complaining  Party  or 
Parties, enter into negotiations with the complaining Party or Parties no later than 
15  days  after  receipt  of  that  request,  with  a  view  to  developing  mutually 
acceptable compensation, if: 
 
(a)   the responding Party has notified the complaining Party or Parties 
that  it  does  not  intend  to  eliminate  the  non-conformity  or  the 
nullification or impairment; or 
 
(b)   following the expiry of the reasonable period of time established in 
accordance with Article 28.19 (Implementation of Final Report), 
there is disagreement between the disputing Parties as to whether 
the  responding  Party  has  eliminated  the  non-conformity  or  the 
nullification or impairment.    
 
2.  A complaining Party may suspend benefits in accordance with paragraph 3 
if that complaining Party and the responding Party have:  
 
(a)  been unable to agree on compensation within a period of 30 days 
after the period for developing compensation has begun; or 
 
(b)  agreed  on  compensation  but  the  relevant  complaining  Party 
considers that the responding Party has failed to observe the terms 
of the agreement. 
28-16  
 
3.  A complaining Party may, at any time after the conditions set out in 
paragraph 2 are met in relation to that complaining Party, provide written notice to 
the responding Party that it intends to suspend benefits of equivalent effect.  The 
notice shall specify the level of benefits that the Party proposes to suspend.3  The 
complaining Party may begin suspending benefits 30 days after the later of the 
date on which it provides notice under this paragraph or the date that the panel 
issues its determination under paragraph 5, as the case may be.  
 
4.  In  considering  what  benefits  to  suspend  under  paragraph  3,  the 
complaining Party shall apply the following principles and procedures: 
 
(a)  it should first seek to suspend benefits in the same subject matter as 
that  in  which  the  panel  has  determined  non-conformity  or 
nullification or impairment to exist;  
 
(b)  if it considers that it is not practicable or effective to suspend 
benefits in the same subject matter, and that the circumstances are 
serious  enough,  it  may  suspend  benefits  in  a  different  subject 
matter.    In  the  written  notice  referred  to  in  paragraph  3,  the 
complaining Party shall indicate the reasons on which its decision 
to suspend benefits in a different subject matter is based; and 
 
(c)  in applying the principles set out in subparagraphs (a) and (b), it 
shall take into account: 
 
(i)  the trade in the good, the supply of the service or other 
subject  matter  in  which  the  panel  has  found  the  non-
conformity  or  nullification  or  impairment,  and  the 
importance of that trade to the complaining Party;  
 
(ii)  that goods, all financial services covered under Chapter 11 
(Financial  Services),  services  other  than  such  financial 
services,  and  each  section  in  Chapter  18  (Intellectual 
Property), are each distinct subject matters; and 
 
(iii)  the broader economic elements related to the nullification 
or impairment and the broader economic consequences of 
the suspension of benefits. 
 
5.  If the responding Party considers that:  
                                                 
3  For greater certainty, the phrase “the level of benefits that the Party proposes to suspend” refers 
to the level of concessions under this Agreement, the suspension of which a complaining Party 
considers will have an effect equivalent to that of the non-conformity, or nullification or 
impairment in the sense of Article 28.3.1(c) (Scope), determined to exist by the panel in its final 
report issued under Article 28.18.1 (Final Report). 
28-17  
 
(a)  the  level  of  benefits  proposed  to  be  suspended  is  manifestly 
excessive  or  the  complaining  Party  has  failed  to  follow  the 
principles and procedures set out in paragraph 4; or  
 
(b)  it  has  eliminated  the  non-conformity  or  the  nullification  or 
impairment that the panel has determined to exist, 
 
it may, within 30 days of the date of delivery of the written notice provided by the 
complaining Party under paragraph 3, request that the panel be reconvened to 
consider the matter.  The responding Party shall deliver its request in writing to 
the complaining Party.  The panel shall reconvene as soon as possible after the 
date of delivery of the request and shall present its determination to the disputing 
Parties  no  later  than  90  days  after  it  reconvenes  to  review  a  request  under 
subparagraph (a) or (b), or 120 days after it reconvenes for a request under both 
subparagraphs (a) and (b).  If the panel determines that the level of benefits the 
complaining Party proposes to suspend is manifestly excessive, it shall determine 
the level of benefits it considers to be of equivalent effect.  
 
6.  Unless the panel has determined that the responding Party has eliminated 
the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment, the complaining Party may 
suspend benefits up to the level the panel has determined under paragraph 5 or, if 
the  panel  has  not  determined  the  level,  the  level  the  complaining  Party  has 
proposed  to  suspend  under  paragraph  3.   If  the  panel  determines  that  the 
complaining  Party  has  not  followed  the  principles  and  procedures  set  out  in 
paragraph 4, the panel shall set out in its determination the extent to which the 
complaining  Party  may  suspend  benefits  in  which  subject  matter  in  order  to 
ensure full compliance with the principles and procedures set out in paragraph 4.  
The complaining Party may suspend benefits only in a manner consistent with the 
panel’s determination.  
 
7.  The complaining Party shall not suspend benefits if, within 30 days after it 
provides written notice of intent to suspend benefits or, if the panel is reconvened 
under paragraph 5, within 20 days after the panel provides its determination, the 
responding Party provides written notice to the complaining Party that it will pay 
a monetary assessment.  The disputing Parties shall begin consultations no later 
than 10 days after the date on which the responding Party has given notice that it 
intends to pay a monetary assessment, with a view to reaching agreement on the 
amount  of  the  assessment.    If  the  disputing  Parties  are  unable  to  reach  an 
agreement  within  30  days  after  consultations  begin  and  are  not  engaged  in 
discussions regarding the use of a fund under paragraph 8, the amount of the 
assessment shall be set at a level, in U.S. dollars, equal to 50 per cent of the level 
of the benefits the panel has determined under paragraph 5 to be of equivalent 
effect or, if the panel has not determined the level, 50 per cent of the level that the 
complaining Party has proposed to suspend under paragraph 3. 
 
8.  If a monetary assessment is to be paid to the complaining Party, then it 
28-18  
shall be paid in U.S. dollars, or in an equivalent amount of the currency of the 
responding Party or in another currency agreed to by the disputing Parties in 
equal,  quarterly  instalments  beginning  60  days  after  the  date  on  which  the 
responding  Party  gives  notice  that  it  intends  to  pay  an  assessment.    If  the 
circumstances warrant, the disputing Parties may decide that the responding Party 
shall  pay  an  assessment  into  a  fund  designated  by  the  disputing  Parties  for 
appropriate initiatives to facilitate trade between the Parties, including by further 
reducing unreasonable trade barriers or by assisting the responding Party to carry 
out its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
9.  At the same time as the payment of its first quarterly instalment is due, the 
responding Party shall provide to the complaining Party a plan of the steps it 
intends to take to eliminate the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment.   
 
10.  A responding Party may pay a monetary assessment in lieu of suspension 
of benefits by the complaining Party for a maximum of 12 months from the date 
on which the responding Party has provided written notice under paragraph 7 
unless the complaining Party agrees to an extension.   
 
11.   A responding Party that seeks an extension of the period for the payment 
under paragraph 10 shall make a written request for that extension no later than 30 
days before the expiration of the 12 month period.  The disputing Parties shall 
determine the length and terms of any extension, including the amount of the 
assessment.  
 
12.  The complaining Party may suspend the application to the responding 
Party of benefits in accordance with paragraphs 3, 4 and 6, if: 
 
(a)  the responding Party fails to make a payment under paragraph 8 or 
fails to make the payment under paragraph 13 after electing to do 
so; 
 
(b)  the responding Party fails to provide the plan as required under 
  paragraph 9; or  
 
(c)  the  monetary  assessment  period,  including  any  extension,  has 
lapsed and the responding Party has not yet eliminated the non-
conformity or the nullification or impairment. 
 
13.  If the responding Party notified the complaining Party that it wished to 
discuss the possible use of a fund and the disputing Parties do not agree on the use 
of a fund within three months of the date of the responding Party’s notice under 
paragraph 7, and this time period has not been extended by agreement of the 
disputing  Parties,  the  responding  Party  may  elect  to  make  the  monetary 
assessment  payment  equal  to  50  per  cent  of  the  amount  determined  under 
paragraph 5 or the level proposed by the complaining Party under paragraph 3 if 
there has been no determination under paragraph 5.  If this election is made, the 
28-19  
payment must be made within nine months of the responding Party’s notice under 
paragraph 7 in U.S. dollars, or in an equivalent amount of the currency of the 
responding Party or in another currency agreed to by the disputing Parties.  If the 
election  is  not  made,  the  complaining  Party  may  suspend  the  application  of 
benefits in the amount determined under paragraph 5, or the level proposed by the 
complaining Party under paragraph 3 if there has been no determination under 
paragraph 5, at the end of the election period. 
 
14.  The  complaining  Party  shall  accord  sympathetic  consideration  to  the 
notice provided by the responding Party regarding the possible use of the fund 
referred to in paragraphs 8 and 13. 
 
15.  Compensation, suspension of benefits  and the  payment  of a monetary 
assessment shall be temporary measures.  None of these measures is preferred to 
full implementation through elimination of the non-conformity or the nullification 
or  impairment.    Compensation,  suspension  of benefits  and  the  payment  of  a 
monetary  assessment  shall  only  be  applied  until  the  responding  Party  has 
eliminated  the  non-conformity  or  the  nullification  or  impairment,  or  until  a 
mutually satisfactory solution is reached. 
 
 
Article 28.21:  Compliance Review 
 
1.  Without prejudice to the procedures in Article 28.20 (Non-Implementation 
- Compensation and Suspension of Benefits), if a responding Party considers that 
it has eliminated the non-conformity or the nullification or impairment found by 
the panel, it may refer the matter to the panel by providing a written notice to the 
complaining Party or Parties.  The panel shall issue its report on the matter no 
later than 90 days after the responding Party provides written notice. 
 
2.  If the panel determines that the responding Party has eliminated the non-
conformity or the nullification or impairment, the complaining Party or Parties 
shall  promptly  reinstate  any  benefits  suspended  under  Article  28.20  (Non-
Implementation - Compensation and Suspension of Benefits).   
 
 
Section B:  Domestic Proceedings and Private Commercial Dispute 
Settlement 
 
 
Article 28.22:  Private Rights 
 
No Party shall provide for a right of action under its law against any other 
Party on the ground that a measure of that other Party is inconsistent with its 
obligations under this Agreement, or that the other Party has otherwise failed to 
carry out its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
28-20  
 
Article 28.23:  Alternative Dispute Resolution 
 
1.   Each Party shall, to the maximum extent possible, encourage and facilitate 
the use of arbitration and other means of alternative dispute resolution for the 
settlement of international commercial disputes between private parties in the free 
trade area.  
 
2.   To this end, each Party shall provide appropriate procedures to ensure 
observance of agreements to arbitrate and for the recognition and enforcement of 
arbitral awards in such disputes.  
 
3.   A Party shall be deemed to be in compliance with paragraph 2 if it is a 
party  to,  and  is  in  compliance  with,  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards done at New York on 
10 June 1958.  
28-21 