COMPREHENSIVE AND PROGRESSIVE AGREEMENT  
 
FOR  
 
TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP 
 
 
PREAMBLE 
 
The Parties to this Agreement, resolving to :  
 
 
REAFFIRM the matters embodied in the preamble to the Trans-Pacific Partnership 
Agreement, done at Auckland on 4 February 2016 (hereinafter referred to as “the 
TPP”); 
 
REALISE expeditiously the benefits of the TPP through this Agreement and their 
strategic and economic significance; 
 
CONTRIBUTE to maintaining open markets, increasing world trade, and creating 
new economic opportunities for people of all incomes and economic backgrounds; 
 
PROMOTE further regional economic integration and cooperation between them; 
 
ENHANCE opportunities for the acceleration of regional trade liberalisation and 
investment;  
 
REAFFIRM the importance of promoting corporate social responsibility, cultural 
identity and diversity, environmental protection and conservation, gender equality, 
indigenous rights, labour rights, inclusive trade, sustainable development and 
traditional knowledge, as well as the importance of preserving their right to regulate 
in the public interest; and 
 
 
2 
 
WELCOME the accession of other States or separate customs territories to this 
Agreement, 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows : 
 
 
Article 1 :  Incorporation of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby agree that, under the terms of this Agreement, the provisions of the 
Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, done at Auckland on 4 February 2016 (“the TPP”) are 
incorporated, by reference, into and made part of this Agreement mutatis mutandis, except for 
Article 30.4 (Accession), Article 30.5 (Entry into Force), Article 30.6 (Withdrawal) and 
Article 30.8 (Authentic Texts).1 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Agreement, references to the date of signature in the TPP 
shall mean the date of signature of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the TPP, when the 
latter is in force, this Agreement shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
Article 2 :  Suspension of the Application of Certain Provisions 
 
Upon the date of entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall suspend the 
application of the provisions set out in the Annex to this Agreement, until the Parties agree to 
end suspension of one or more of these provisions.2 
 
 
                                                           
1 For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement shall provide any rights to any non-Party to this Agreement. 
2 For greater certainty, any agreement by the Parties to end a suspension shall only apply to a Party upon the 
completion of that Party’s applicable legal procedures.  
 
3 
 
Article 3 :  Entry into Force 
 
1.       This Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the date on which at least six or at 
least 50 per cent of the number of signatories to this Agreement, whichever is smaller, have 
notified the Depositary in writing of the completion of their applicable legal procedures. 
 
2. 
For any signatory to this Agreement for which this Agreement has not entered into 
force under paragraph 1, this Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the date on which 
that signatory has notified the Depositary in writing of the completion of its applicable legal 
procedures. 
 
 
Article 4 :  Withdrawal 
 
1. 
Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement by providing written notice of 
withdrawal to the Depositary.  A withdrawing Party shall simultaneously notify the other 
Parties of its withdrawal through the overall contact points designated under Article 27.5 
(Contact Points) of the TPP. 
 
2. 
A withdrawal shall take effect six months after a Party provides written notice to the 
Depositary under paragraph 1, unless the Parties agree on a different period.  If a Party 
withdraws, this Agreement shall remain in force for the remaining Parties.   
 
 
Article 5 :  Accession 
 
After the date of entry into force of this Agreement, any State or separate customs 
territory may accede to this Agreement, subject to such terms and conditions as may be 
agreed between the Parties and that State or separate customs territory.  
 
4 
 
 
 
Article 6 :  Review of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific 
Partnership 
 
Further to Article 27.2 (Functions of the Commission) of the TPP, if the entry into 
force of the TPP is imminent or if the TPP is unlikely to enter into force, the Parties shall, on 
request of a Party, review the operation of this Agreement so as to consider any amendment 
to this Agreement and any related matters. 
 
 
Article 7 :  Authentic Texts 
 
The English, Spanish and French texts of this Agreement are equally authentic.  In the 
event of any divergence between those texts, the English text shall prevail. 
 
 
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised by their respective Governments, 
have signed this Agreement. 
 
DONE at Santiago the eighth day of March, two thousand and eighteen, in the English, 
French and Spanish languages. 
 
5 
 
ANNEX3 
 
 
1. 
Chapter 5 (Customs Administration and Trade Facilitation)   
 
Article 5.7 (Express Shipments) – paragraph 1 – subparagraph (f): second sentence 
 
2. 
Chapter 9 (Investment)  
 
(a) 
Article 9.1 (Definitions):  
 
 
(i) 
definition of investment agreement including footnotes 5 through 9;  
 
(ii) 
definition of investment authorisation including footnotes 10 and 11; 
 
(b) 
Article 9.19 (Submission of a Claim to Arbitration)   
 
(i) 
paragraph 1:  
 
 
 
(A)   subparagraph (a)(i)(B) including footnote 31; 
 
(B)   subparagraph (a)(i)(C); 
 
(C)   subparagraph (b)(i)(B);  
 
(D)   subparagraph (b)(i)(C);  
 
                                                           
3 To assist with the understanding of this Annex, the Parties have used a colon to indicate the specific portion(s) 
of a provision that has been suspended. 
 
6 
 
(E) the chaussette “provided that a claimant may submit pursuant to 
subparagraph (a)(i)(C) or (b)(i)(C) a claim for breach of an 
investment agreement only if the subject matter of the claim and 
the claimed damages directly relate to the covered investment that 
was established or acquired, or sought to be established or 
acquired, in reliance on the relevant investment agreement.”; 
 
(ii) 
paragraph 2: all of this paragraph including footnote 32; 
 
(iii) 
paragraph 3 – subparagraph (b): the phrase “investment authorisation 
or investment agreement”;  
 
(c) 
Article 9.22 (Selection of Arbitrators): paragraph 5; 
 
 
(d) 
Article 9.25 (Governing Law): paragraph 2 including footnote 35;  
 
(e) 
Annex 9-L (Investment Agreements): all of this Annex 
 
3. 
Chapter 10 (Cross-Border Trade in Services)  
 
Annex 10-B (Express Delivery Services):  
 
(a) 
paragraph 5 including footnote 13;  
 
(b) 
paragraph 6 including footnote 14 
 
4. 
Chapter 11 (Financial Services)  
 
(a) 
Article 11.2 (Scope) – paragraph 2 – subparagraph (b): the phrase “Article 9.6 
(Minimum Standard of Treatment)” including footnote 3;  
 
(b) 
Annex 11-E: all of this Annex 
 
7 
 
 
5. 
Chapter 13 (Telecommunications)  
 
Article 13.21 (Resolution of Telecommunications Disputes) – paragraph 1: 
subparagraph (d) including the heading “Reconsideration” and footnote 22 
 
6. 
Chapter 15 (Government Procurement)  
 
(a) 
Article 15.8 (Conditions for Participation): paragraph 5 including footnote 1;  
 
(b) 
Article 15.24 (Further Negotiations) – paragraph 2: the phrase “No later than 
three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement”4 
 
 
7. 
Chapter 18 (Intellectual Property) 
 
(a) 
Article 18.8 (National Treatment): the last two sentences of footnote 4; 
 
 
(b) 
Article 18.37 (Patentable Subject Matter)  
 
 
(i) 
paragraph 2: all of this paragraph;   
 
 
(ii) 
paragraph 4: the last sentence; 
 
 
(c) 
Article 18.46 (Patent Term Adjustment for Unreasonable Granting Authority 
Delays): all of this Article including footnotes 36 through 39; 
 
 
(d) 
Article 18.48 (Patent Term Adjustment for Unreasonable Curtailment): all of 
this Article including footnotes 45 through 48; 
                                                           
4 The Parties agree that negotiations referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 15.24 (Further Negotiations) shall 
commence no earlier than five years after entry into force of this Agreement, unless the Parties agree otherwise.  
Such negotiations shall commence at the request of a Party. 
 
8 
 
 
(e) 
Article 18.50 (Protection of Undisclosed Test or Other Data): all of this 
Article including footnotes 50 through 57; 
 
(f) 
Article 18.51 (Biologics): all of this Article including footnotes 58 through 60; 
 
(g) 
Article 18.63 (Term of Protection for Copyright and Related Rights): all of 
this Article including footnotes 74 through 77; 
 
 
(h) 
Article 18.68 (Technological Protection Measures (TPMs)): all of this Article 
including footnotes 82 through 95; 
 
 
(i) 
Article 18.69 (Rights Management Information (RMI)): all of this Article 
including footnotes 96 through 99; 
 
 
(j) 
Article 18.79 (Protection of Encrypted Program-Carrying Satellite and Cable 
Signals): all of this Article including footnotes 139 through 146; 
 
 
(k) 
Article 18.82 (Legal Remedies and Safe Harbours): all of this Article 
including footnotes 149 through 159; 
 
 
(l) 
Annex 18-E (Annex to Section J): all of this Annex;  
 
 
(m) 
Annex 18-F (Annex to Section J): all of this Annex 
 
8. 
Chapter 20 (Environment)  
 
Article 20.17 (Conservation and Trade) – paragraph 5: the phrase “or another 
applicable law” including footnote 26 
 
9. 
Chapter 26 (Transparency and Anti-Corruption)  
 
 
9 
 
Annex 26-A (Transparency and Procedural Fairness for Pharmaceutical Products and 
Medical Devices): Article 3 (Procedural Fairness) including footnotes 11 through 16 
 
10. 
Annex II  
 
Schedule of Brunei Darussalam – 14 – paragraph 3: the phrase “after the signature of 
this Agreement”5 
 
 
11. 
Annex IV  
 
Schedule of Malaysia – 3 and 4 – Scope of Non-Conforming Activities (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Scope”): all references to the phrase “after signature of this 
Agreement”6 
                                                           
5 As a result of the suspension, the Parties agree that the phrase “after the signature of this Agreement” shall 
refer to after the entry into force of this Agreement for Brunei Darussalam. Therefore, the Parties understand 
that the reference to “Any non-conforming measure adopted or maintained” in this paragraph shall mean any 
non-conforming measure adopted or maintained after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Brunei 
Darussalam.  
6 As a result of the suspension, the Parties agree that the phrase “after signature of this Agreement” shall refer to 
after the entry into force of this Agreement for Malaysia. Therefore, the Parties understand that the references in 
the Scope to: 
(a) “the first year” shall be the first one year period;  
(b) “the second and third years” shall be the second and third one year periods;  
(c) “the fourth year” shall be the fourth one year period;  
(d) “the fifth year”  shall be the fifth one year period; and  
(e) “the sixth year” shall be the sixth one year period, 
counted from the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Malaysia. 
