 
2-1
 
 
CHAPTER 2 
 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
 
Section A:  Definitions and Scope 
 
Article 2.1:  Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
advertising films and recordings means recorded visual media or audio 
materials, consisting essentially of images or sound, showing the nature or 
operation of goods or services offered for sale or lease by a person of a Party, that 
are of a kind suitable for exhibition to prospective customers but not for broadcast 
to the general public;  
 
Agreement on Agriculture means the Agreement on Agriculture, set out in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
commercial samples of negligible value means commercial or trade samples: 
having a value, individually or in the aggregate as shipped, of not more than one 
U.S. dollar or the equivalent amount in the currency of another Party; or so 
marked, torn, perforated or otherwise treated that they are unsuitable for sale or 
for use except as commercial samples;  
 
consular transactions means requirements that goods of a Party intended for 
export to the territory of another Party must first be submitted to the supervision 
of the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the exporting Party for the 
purpose of obtaining consular invoices or consular visas for commercial invoices, 
certificates of origin, manifests, shippers’ export declarations, or any other 
customs documentation required on or in connection with importation; 
 
consumed means, with respect to a good:  
 
(a) 
actually consumed; or  
 
(b) 
further processed or manufactured:  
 
(i) 
so as to result in a substantial change in the value, form or 
use of the good; or  
 
(ii) 
in the production of another good; 
 
duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
2-2
 
goods admitted for sports purposes means sports requisites admitted into the 
territory of the importing Party for use in sports contests, demonstrations or 
training in the territory of that Party;  
 
goods intended for display or demonstration includes their component parts, 
ancillary apparatuses and accessories; 
 
import licensing means an administrative procedure requiring the submission of 
an application or other documentation, other than that generally required for 
customs clearance purposes, to the relevant administrative body of the importing 
Party as a prior condition for importation into the territory of that Party; 
 
Import Licensing Agreement means the Agreement on Import Licensing 
Procedures, set out in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
 
performance requirement means a requirement that:  
 
(a) 
a given level or percentage of goods or services be exported; 
 
(b) 
domestic goods or services of the Party granting a waiver of 
customs duties or an import licence be substituted for imported 
goods; 
 
(c) 
a person benefiting from a waiver of customs duties or a 
requirement for an import licence purchase other goods or services 
in the territory of the Party that grants the waiver of customs duties 
or the import licence or accord a preference to domestically 
produced goods; 
 
(d) 
a person benefiting from a waiver of customs duties or a 
requirement for an import licence produce goods or supply services 
in the territory of the Party that grants the waiver of customs duties 
or the import licence, with a given level or percentage of domestic 
content; or 
 
(e) 
relates in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume or 
value of exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows,  
 
but does not include a requirement that an imported good be:  
 
 
(f) 
subsequently exported; 
 
(g) 
used as a material in the production of another good that is 
subsequently exported;  
 
 
2-3
(h) 
substituted by an identical or similar good used as a material in the 
production of another good that is subsequently exported; or 
 
(i) 
substituted by an identical or similar good that is subsequently 
exported; and 
 
printed advertising materials means those goods classified in Chapter 49 of the 
Harmonized System, including brochures, pamphlets, leaflets, trade catalogues, 
yearbooks published by trade associations, tourist promotional materials and 
posters, that are used to promote, publicise or advertise a good or service, are 
essentially intended to advertise a good or service, and are supplied free of charge.  
 
 
Article 2.2:  Scope 
 
 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter applies to trade 
in goods of a Party. 
 
 
Section B:  National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
 
Article 2.3:  National Treatment 
 
1. 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Parties 
in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, 
and to this end, Article III of GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes are 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  
For greater certainty, the treatment to be accorded by a Party under 
paragraph 1 means, with respect to a regional level of government, treatment no 
less favourable than the most favourable treatment that the regional level of 
government accords to any like, directly competitive or substitutable goods, as the 
case may be, of the Party of which it forms a part. 
 
3. 
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the measures set out in Annex 2-A 
(National Treatment and Import and Export Restrictions).  
 
 
Article 2.4:  Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
1. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party shall increase any 
existing customs duty, or adopt any new customs duty, on an originating good. 
 
2. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party shall 
progressively eliminate its customs duties on originating goods in accordance with 
its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
 
2-4
3. 
On request of any Party, the requesting Party and one or more other Parties 
shall consult to consider accelerating the elimination of customs duties set out in 
their Schedules to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
4. 
An agreement between two or more of the Parties to accelerate the 
elimination of a customs duty on an originating good shall supersede any duty rate 
or staging category determined pursuant to those Parties’ Schedules to Annex 2-D 
(Tariff Commitments) for that good once approved by each Party to that 
agreement in accordance with its applicable legal procedures.  The parties to that 
agreement shall inform the other Parties as early as practicable before the new rate 
of customs duty takes effect. 
 
5. 
A Party may at any time unilaterally accelerate the elimination of customs 
duties set out in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments) on originating 
goods of one or more of the other Parties.  A Party shall inform the other Parties 
as early as practicable before the new rate of customs duty takes effect. 
 
6. 
For greater certainty, no Party shall prohibit an importer from claiming for 
an originating good the rate of customs duty applied under the WTO Agreement.  
 
7. 
For greater certainty, a Party may raise a customs duty to the level set out 
in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments) following a unilateral 
reduction for the respective year.  
 
 
Article 2.5:  Waiver of Customs Duties 
 
1. 
No Party shall adopt any new waiver of a customs duty, or expand with 
respect to an existing recipient or extend to any new recipient the application of an 
existing waiver of a customs duty, that is conditioned, explicitly or implicitly, on 
the fulfilment of a performance requirement. 
 
2. 
No Party shall, explicitly or implicitly, condition the continuation of any 
existing waiver of a customs duty on the fulfilment of a performance requirement. 
 
 
Article 2.6:  Goods Re-entered after Repair and Alteration 
 
1. 
No Party shall apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, that 
re-enters the Party’s territory after that good has been temporarily exported from 
the Party’s territory to the territory of another Party for repair or alteration, 
regardless of whether that repair or alteration could have been performed in the 
territory of the Party from which the good was exported for repair or alteration or 
increased the value of the good.1 
                                                 
1  For Canada, this paragraph shall not apply to certain ships of Chapter 89 that have been repaired 
or altered.  These ships will be treated in a manner consistent with the notes associated with the 
relevant tariff items in Canada’s Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
2-5
 
2. 
No Party shall apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, 
admitted temporarily from the territory of another Party for repair or alteration. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Article, “repair or alteration” does not include an 
operation or process that:  
 
 
(a) 
destroys a good’s essential characteristics or creates a new or 
commercially different good; or  
 
 
(b) 
transforms an unfinished good into a finished good. 
 
 
Article 2.7:  Duty-Free Entry of Commercial Samples of Negligible Value and 
Printed Advertising Material 
 
 
Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to commercial samples of negligible 
value and printed advertising material imported from the territory of another 
Party, regardless of their origin, but may require that: 
 
(a) 
commercial samples of negligible value be imported solely for the 
solicitation of orders for goods, or services provided from the 
territory, of another Party or a non-Party; or 
 
(b) 
printed advertising material be imported in packets that each 
contain no more than one copy of the material and that neither that 
material nor those packets form part of a larger consignment. 
 
 
Article 2.8:  Temporary Admission of Goods  
 
1. 
Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for the following 
goods, regardless of their origin: 
 
 
(a) 
professional equipment, including equipment for the press or 
television, software, and broadcasting and cinematographic 
equipment, that is necessary for carrying out the business activity, 
trade or profession of a person who qualifies for temporary entry 
pursuant to the laws of the importing Party; 
 
 
(b) 
goods intended for display or demonstration; 
 
 
 
(c)  
commercial samples and advertising films and recordings; and 
 
 
(d) 
goods admitted for sports purposes. 
 
 
2-6
2. 
Each Party shall, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons its 
customs authority considers valid, extend the time limit for duty-free temporary 
admission beyond the period initially fixed. 
 
3. 
No Party shall condition the duty-free temporary admission of the goods 
referred to in paragraph 1, other than to require that those goods: 
 
(a) 
be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national of 
another Party in the exercise of the business activity, trade, 
profession or sport of that national of another Party; 
 
(b) 
not be sold or leased while in its territory; 
 
(c)  
be accompanied by a security in an amount no greater than the 
charges that would otherwise be owed on entry or final 
importation, releasable on exportation of the goods; 
 
 
(d) 
be capable of identification when imported and exported; 
 
(e) 
be exported on the departure of the national referred to in 
subparagraph (a), or within any other period reasonably related to 
the purpose of the temporary admission that the Party may 
establish, or within one year, unless extended; 
 
(f) 
be admitted in no greater quantity than is reasonable for their 
intended use; and 
 
 
(g) 
be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for containers and 
pallets regardless of their origin, that are in use or to be used in the shipment of 
goods in international traffic. 
 
(a) 
For the purposes of this paragraph, container means an article of 
transport equipment that is: fully or partially enclosed to constitute 
a compartment intended for containing goods; substantial and has 
an internal volume of one cubic metre or more; of a permanent 
character and accordingly strong enough to be suitable for repeated 
use; used in significant numbers in international traffic; specially 
designed to facilitate the carriage of goods by more than one mode 
of transport without intermediate reloading; and designed both for 
ready handling, particularly when being transferred from one mode 
of transport to another, and to be easy to fill and to empty, but does 
 
2-7
not include vehicles, accessories or spare parts of vehicles or 
packaging.2 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this paragraph, pallet means a small, portable 
platform, which consists of two decks separated by bearers or a 
single deck supported by feet, on which goods can be moved, 
stacked and stored, and which is designed essentially for handling 
by means of fork lift trucks, pallet trucks or other jacking devices. 
 
5. 
If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 3 has not been 
fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would 
normally be owed on the good in addition to any other charges or penalties 
provided for under its law. 
 
6.  
Each Party shall adopt and maintain procedures providing for the 
expeditious release of goods admitted under this Article.  To the extent possible, 
those procedures shall provide that when a good admitted under this Article 
accompanies a national of another Party who is seeking temporary entry, the good 
shall be released simultaneously with the entry of that national. 
 
7. 
Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article to 
be exported through a customs port other than the port through which it was 
admitted. 
 
8. 
Each Party shall, in accordance with its law, provide that the importer or 
other person responsible for a good admitted under this Article shall not be liable 
for failure to export the good on presentation of satisfactory proof to the importing 
Party that the good was destroyed within the period fixed for temporary 
admission, including any lawful extension. 
 
9. 
Subject to Chapter 9 (Investment) and Chapter 10 (Cross-Border Trade in 
Services): 
 
(a) 
each Party shall allow a vehicle or container used in international 
traffic that enters its territory from the territory of another Party to 
exit its territory on any route that is reasonably related to the 
economical and prompt departure of that vehicle or container;3 
 
                                                 
2  Each Party shall eliminate customs duties on containers classified in HS 86.09 that have an 
internal volume of less than one cubic metre on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for 
that Party as set out in that Party’s Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
3  For greater certainty, nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from 
adopting or maintaining highway and railway safety measures of general application, or from 
preventing a vehicle or container from entering or exiting its territory in a location where the Party 
does not maintain a customs port. 
 
2-8
(b) 
no Party shall require any security or impose any penalty or charge 
solely by reason of any difference between the customs port of 
entry and the customs port of departure of a vehicle or container; 
 
(c) 
no Party shall condition the release of any obligation, including any 
security, that it imposes in respect of the entry of a vehicle or 
container into its territory on the exit of that vehicle or container 
through any particular customs port of departure; and 
 
(d) 
no Party shall require that the vehicle or carrier bringing a 
container from the  
territory of another Party into its territory be 
the same vehicle or carrier that takes that container to the territory 
of that other Party, or to the territory of any other Party. 
 
10. 
For the purposes of paragraph 9, vehicle means a truck, a truck tractor, a 
tractor, a trailer unit or trailer, a locomotive, or a railway car or other railroad 
equipment. 
 
 
Article 2.9:  Ad hoc Discussions 
 
1. 
Each Party shall designate and notify a contact point in accordance with 
Article 27.5 (Contact Points), to facilitate communications between the Parties on 
any matter covered by this Chapter, including any request or information 
conveyed under Article 26.5 (Provision of Information) relating to a measure of a 
Party that may affect the operation of this Chapter. 
 
2. 
A Party (the requesting Party) may request ad hoc discussions on any 
matter arising under this Chapter (including a specific non-tariff measure) that the 
requesting Party believes may adversely affect its interests in trade in goods, 
except a matter that could be addressed under a Chapter-specific consultation 
mechanism established under another Chapter, by delivering a written request to 
another Party (the requested Party) through its contact point for this Chapter.  The 
request shall be in writing and identify the reasons for the request, including a 
description of the requesting Party’s concerns and an indication of the provisions 
of this Chapter to which the concerns relate.  The requesting Party may provide all 
the other Parties with a copy of the request.  
 
3. 
If the requested Party considers that the matter that is the subject of the 
request should be addressed under a Chapter-specific consultation mechanism 
established under another Chapter, it shall promptly notify the contact point for 
this Chapter of the requesting Party and include in its notice the reasons it 
considers that the request should be addressed under the other mechanism.  The 
requested Party shall promptly forward the request and its notice to the overall 
contact points of the requesting and requested Parties designated under Article 
27.5 (Contact Points) for appropriate action. 
 
 
2-9
4. 
Within 30 days of receipt of a request under paragraph 2, the requested 
Party shall provide a written reply to the requesting Party.  Within 30 days of the 
requesting Party’s receipt of the reply, the requesting and requested Parties (the 
discussing Parties) shall meet in person or via electronic means to discuss the 
matter identified in the request.  If the discussing Parties choose to meet in person, 
the meeting shall take place in the territory of the requested Party, unless the 
discussing Parties decide otherwise. 
 
5. 
Any Party may submit a written request to the discussing Parties to 
participate in the ad hoc discussions.  If the matter has not been resolved prior to 
the receipt of a Party’s request to participate and the discussing Parties agree, the 
Party may participate in these ad hoc discussions subject to any conditions that 
the discussing Parties may decide. 
 
6. 
If the requesting Party believes that the matter is urgent, it may request 
that ad hoc discussions take place within a shorter time frame than that provided 
for under paragraph 4.  Any Party may request urgent ad hoc discussions if a 
measure: 
 
(a) 
is applied without prior notice or without an opportunity for a Party 
to avail itself of ad hoc discussions under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4; 
and  
 
(b) 
may threaten to impede the importation, sale or distribution of an 
originating good which is in the process of being transported from 
the exporting Party to the importing Party, or has not been released 
from customs control, or is in storage in a warehouse regulated by 
the customs administration of the importing Party.  
 
7. 
Ad hoc discussions under this Article shall be confidential and without 
prejudice to the rights of any Party, including being without prejudice to rights 
pertaining to dispute settlement proceedings under Chapter 28 (Dispute 
Settlement). 
 
 
Article 2.10:  Import and Export Restrictions 
 
1. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, no Party shall adopt or 
maintain any prohibition or restriction on the importation of any good of another 
Party or on the exportation or sale for export of any good destined for the territory 
of another Party, except in accordance with Article XI of GATT 1994 and its 
interpretative notes, and to this end Article XI of GATT 1994 and its 
interpretative notes are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, 
mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
2-10
2. 
The Parties understand that GATT 1994 rights and obligations 
incorporated by paragraph 1 prohibit, in any circumstances in which any other 
form of restriction is prohibited, a Party from adopting or maintaining:  
 
(a) 
export and import price requirements, except as permitted in 
enforcement of countervailing and antidumping duty orders and 
undertakings;  
 
(b) 
import licensing conditioned on the fulfilment of a performance 
requirement; or  
 
(c) 
voluntary export restraints inconsistent with Article VI of GATT 
1994, as implemented under Article 18 of the SCM Agreement and 
Article 8.1 of the AD Agreement.  
 
3. 
For greater certainty, paragraph 1 applies to the importation of commercial 
cryptographic goods.   
 
4. 
For the purposes of paragraph 3:  
 
commercial 
cryptographic 
goods means any good implementing or 
incorporating cryptography, if the good is not designed or modified specifically 
for government use and is sold or otherwise made available to the public. 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the measures set out in Annex 2-A 
(National Treatment and Import and Export Restrictions).  
 
6. 
In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on 
the importation from or exportation to a non-Party of a good, no provision of this 
Agreement shall be construed to prevent that Party from:  
 
(a)  
limiting or prohibiting the importation of the good of the non-Party 
from the territory of another Party; or 
 
(b)  
requiring, as a condition for exporting the good of that Party to the 
territory of another Party, that the good not be re-exported to the 
non-Party, directly or indirectly, without being consumed in the 
territory of the other Party.  
 
7. 
In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on 
the importation of a good from a non-Party, the Parties, on the request of any 
Party, shall consult with a view to avoiding undue interference with or distortion 
of pricing, marketing, or distribution arrangements in another Party. 
 
 
2-11
8. 
No Party shall, as a condition for engaging in importation or for the 
importation of a good, require a person of another Party to establish or maintain a 
contractual or other relationship with a distributor in its territory.4 
 
9. 
For greater certainty, paragraph 8 does not prevent a Party from requiring 
a person referred to in that paragraph to designate a point of contact for the 
purpose of facilitating communications between its regulatory authorities and that 
person. 
 
10. 
For the purposes of paragraph 8:  
 
distributor means a person of a Party who is responsible for the commercial 
distribution, agency, concession or representation in the territory of that Party of 
goods of another Party. 
 
 
Article 2.11:  Remanufactured Goods 
 
1. 
For greater certainty, Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) shall 
apply to prohibitions and restrictions on the importation of remanufactured goods.  
 
2. 
If a Party adopts or maintains measures prohibiting or restricting the 
importation of used goods, it shall not apply those measures to remanufactured 
goods.5, 6 
 
 
Article 2.12:  Import Licensing 
 
1. 
No Party shall adopt or maintain a measure that is inconsistent with the 
Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
2. 
Promptly after this Agreement enters into force for a Party, that Party shall 
notify the other Parties of its existing import licensing procedures, if any.  The 
notice shall include the information specified in Article 5.2 of the Import 
Licensing Agreement and any information required under paragraph 6. 
 
                                                 
4  This paragraph shall not apply to the importation or distribution of rice and paddy in Malaysia. 
5  For greater certainty, subject to its obligations under this Agreement and the WTO Agreement, a 
Party may require that remanufactured goods: 
 
(a) 
be identified as such for distribution or sale in its territory; and 
 
(b) 
meet all applicable technical requirements that apply to equivalent goods in new 
condition. 
 
6  This paragraph shall not apply to the treatment of certain remanufactured goods by Viet Nam as 
set out in Annex 2-B (Remanufactured Goods). 
 
2-12
3. 
A Party shall be deemed to be in compliance with the obligations in 
paragraph 2 with respect to an existing import licensing procedure if: 
 
(a) 
it has notified that procedure to the WTO Committee on Import 
Licensing provided for in Article 4 of the Import Licensing 
Agreement together with the information specified in Article 5.2 of 
that agreement; 
 
(b) 
in the most recent annual submission due before the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement for that Party to the WTO Committee 
on Import Licensing in response to the annual questionnaire on 
import licensing procedures described in Article 7.3 of the Import 
Licensing Agreement, it has provided, with respect to that 
procedure, the information requested in that questionnaire; and 
 
(c) 
it has included in either the notice described in subparagraph (a) or 
the annual submission described in subparagraph (b) any 
information required to be notified to the other Parties under 
paragraph 6.  
 
4. 
Each Party shall comply with Article 1.4(a) of the Import Licensing 
Agreement with respect to any new or modified import licensing procedure.  Each 
Party shall also publish on an official government website any information that it 
is required to publish under Article 1.4(a) of the Import Licensing Agreement.  
 
5. 
Each Party shall notify the other Parties of any new import licensing 
procedures it adopts and any modifications it makes to its existing import 
licensing procedures, if possible, no later than 60 days before the new procedure 
or modification takes effect.  In no case shall a Party provide the notification later 
than 60 days after the date of its publication.  The notification shall include any 
information required under paragraph 6.  A Party shall be deemed to be in 
compliance with this obligation if it notifies a new import licensing procedure or a 
modification to an existing import licensing procedure to the WTO Committee on 
Import Licensing in accordance with Article 5.1, 5.2 or 5.3 of the Import 
Licensing Agreement, and includes in its notification any information required to 
be notified to the other Parties under paragraph 6. 
 
6.         (a) 
A notice under paragraph 2, 3 or 5 shall state if, under any import 
licensing procedure that is a subject of the notice: 
 
(i) 
the terms of an import licence for any product limit the 
permissible end users of the product; or  
 
(ii) 
the Party imposes any of the following conditions on 
eligibility for obtaining a licence to import any product: 
 
(A) 
membership in an industry association; 
 
2-13
 
(B) 
approval by an industry association of the request 
for an import licence; 
 
(C) 
a history of importing the product or similar 
products; 
 
(D) 
minimum importer or end user production capacity; 
 
(E) 
minimum importer or end user registered capital; or 
 
(F) 
a contractual or other relationship between the 
importer and a distributor in the Party’s territory. 
 
(b) 
A notice that states, under subparagraph (a), that there is a 
limitation on permissible end users or a licence-eligibility condition 
shall: 
 
(i) 
list all products for which the end-user limitation or licence-
eligibility condition applies; and 
 
(ii) 
describe the end-user limitation or licence-eligibility 
condition. 
 
7. 
Each Party shall respond within 60 days to a reasonable enquiry from 
another Party concerning its licensing rules and its procedures for the submission 
of an application for an import licence, including the eligibility of persons, firms 
and institutions to make an application, the administrative body or bodies to be 
approached and the list of products subject to the licensing requirement. 
 
8. 
If a Party denies an import licence application with respect to a good of 
another Party, it shall, on request of the applicant and within a reasonable period 
after receiving the request, provide the applicant with a written explanation of the 
reason for the denial. 
 
9. 
No Party shall apply an import licensing procedure to a good of another 
Party unless it has, with respect to that procedure, met the requirements of 
paragraph 2 or 4, as applicable. 
 
 
Article 2.13:  Transparency in Export Licensing Procedures7 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Article: 
 
export licensing procedure means a requirement that a Party adopts or maintains 
under which an exporter must, as a condition for exporting a good from the 
                                                 
7  The obligations in this Article shall apply only to procedures for applying for an export licence. 
 
2-14
Party’s territory, submit an application or other documentation to an 
administrative body or bodies, but does not include customs documentation 
required in the normal course of trade or any requirement that must be fulfilled 
prior to introduction of the good into commerce within the Party’s territory. 
 
2. 
Within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Agreement for a Party, 
that Party shall notify the other Parties in writing of the publications in which its 
export licensing procedures, if any, are set out, including addresses of relevant 
government websites.  Thereafter, each Party shall publish in the notified 
publications and websites any new export licensing procedure, or any 
modification of an export licensing procedure, that it adopts as soon as practicable 
but no later than 30 days after the new procedure or modification takes effect.    
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure that it includes in the publications it notifies under 
paragraph 2: 
 
(a) 
the texts of its export licensing procedures, including any 
modifications it makes to those procedures;  
 
(b) 
the goods subject to each licensing procedure; 
 
(c) 
for each procedure, a description of: 
 
(i) 
the process for applying for a licence; and 
 
(ii) 
any criteria an applicant must meet to be eligible to apply 
for a licence, such as possessing an activity licence, 
establishing or maintaining an investment, or operating 
through a particular form of establishment in a Party’s 
territory; 
 
(d) 
a contact point or points from which interested persons can obtain 
further information on the conditions for obtaining an export 
licence; 
 
(e) 
the administrative body or bodies to which an application for a 
licence or other relevant documentation must be submitted; 
 
(f) 
a description of or a citation to a publication reproducing in full 
any measure or measures that the export licensing procedure is 
designed to implement; 
 
(g) 
the period during which each export licensing procedure will be in 
effect, unless the procedure will remain in effect until withdrawn or 
revised in a new publication; 
 
 
2-15
(h) 
if the Party intends to use a licensing procedure to administer an 
export quota, the overall quantity and, if practicable, value of the 
quota and the opening and closing dates of the quota; and 
 
(i) 
any exemptions or exceptions available to the public that replace 
the requirement to obtain an export licence, how to request or use 
these exemptions or exceptions and the criteria for them.  
 
4. 
Except where doing so would reveal business proprietary or other 
confidential information of a particular person, on request of another Party that 
has a substantial trade interest in the matter, a Party shall provide, to the extent 
possible, the following information regarding a particular export licensing 
procedure that it adopts or maintains: 
 
(a) 
the aggregate number of licences that the Party has granted over a 
recent period that the requesting Party has specified; and 
 
(b) 
measures, if any, that the Party has taken in conjunction with the 
licensing procedure to restrict domestic production or consumption 
or to stabilise production, supply or prices for the relevant good. 
 
5. 
Nothing in this Article shall be construed in a manner that would require a 
Party to grant an export licence, or that would prevent a Party from implementing 
its obligations or commitments under United Nations Security Council 
Resolutions, as well as multilateral non-proliferation regimes, including: the 
Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-
Use Goods and Technologies; the Nuclear Suppliers Group; the Australia Group; 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling 
and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, done at Paris, January 
13, 1993; the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and 
Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their 
Destruction, done at Washington, London, and Moscow, April 10, 1972; the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at London, Moscow 
and Washington, July 1, 1968; and the Missile Technology Control Regime. 
 
 
Article 2.14:  Administrative Fees and Formalities 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with Article VIII:1 of GATT 1994 
and its interpretative notes, that all fees and charges of whatever character (other 
than export taxes, customs duties, charges equivalent to an internal tax or other 
internal charge applied consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994, and 
antidumping and countervailing duties) imposed on or in connection with 
importation or exportation are limited in amount to the approximate cost of 
services rendered and do not represent an indirect protection to domestic goods or 
a taxation of imports or exports for fiscal purposes. 
 
 
2-16
2. 
No Party shall require consular transactions, including related fees and 
charges, in connection with the importation of a good of another Party. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall make publicly available online a current list of the fees 
and charges it imposes in connection with importation or exportation. 
 
4.  
No Party shall levy fees and charges on or in connection with importation 
or exportation on an ad valorem basis.8 
 
5. 
Each Party shall periodically review its fees and charges, with a view to 
reducing their number and diversity if practicable. 
 
 
Article 2.15:  Export Duties, Taxes or Other Charges 
 
Except as provided for in Annex 2-C (Export Duties, Taxes or Other 
Charges), no Party shall adopt or maintain any duty, tax or other charge on the 
export of any good to the territory of another Party, unless such duty, tax or 
charge is adopted or maintained on that good when destined for domestic 
consumption. 
 
 
Article 2.16:  Publication 
 
Each Party shall promptly publish the following information in a non-
discriminatory and easily accessible manner, in order to enable interested parties 
to become acquainted with it: 
 
(a) 
importation, exportation and transit procedures, including port, 
airport and other entry-point procedures, and required forms and 
documents; 
 
(b) 
applied rates of duties, and taxes of any kind imposed on or in 
connection with importation or exportation; 
 
(c) 
rules for the classification or the valuation of products for customs 
purposes; 
 
(d) 
laws, regulations and administrative rulings of general application 
relating to rules of origin; 
 
                                                 
8  The Merchandise Processing Fee (MPF) shall be the only fee or charge of the United States to 
which this paragraph shall apply.  In addition, this paragraph shall not apply to any fee or charge 
of the United States until three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for the 
United States.  Further, this paragraph shall not apply to any fee or charge of Mexico on or in 
connection with the importation or exportation of a non-originating good until five years after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for Mexico. 
 
2-17
(e) 
import, export or transit restrictions or prohibitions; 
 
(f) 
fees and charges imposed on or in connection with importation, 
exportation or transit; 
 
(g) 
penalty provisions against breaches of import, export or transit 
formalities; 
 
(h) 
appeal procedures; 
 
(i) 
agreements or parts of agreements with any country relating to 
importation, exportation or transit; 
 
(j) 
administrative procedures relating to the imposition of tariff 
quotas; and 
 
(k) 
correlation tables showing correspondence between any new 
national nomenclature and the previous national nomenclature. 
 
 
Article 2.17:  Trade in Information Technology Products 
 
Each Party shall be a participant in the WTO Ministerial Declaration on 
Trade in Information Technology Products (Information Technology Agreement), 
13 December 1996, and have completed the procedures for modification and 
rectification of its Schedule of Tariff Concessions set out in the Decision of 26 
March 1980, L/4962, in accordance with paragraph 2 of the Information 
Technology Agreement.9, 10 
 
 
Article 2.18:  Committee on Trade in Goods 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade in Goods (Committee), 
composed of government representatives of each Party.  
 
2. 
The Committee shall meet as necessary to consider any matters arising 
under this Chapter.  During the first five years after entry into force of this 
Agreement, the Committee shall meet no less than once a year. 
 
3. 
The Committee’s functions shall include: 
 
                                                 
9  This Article shall not apply to Brunei Darussalam until one year after the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement for Brunei Darussalam.  
 
10  Notwithstanding this Article, Chile and Mexico shall endeavour to become participants in the 
Information Technology Agreement.  The eventual participation of Chile and Mexico in that 
agreement shall be subject to the completion of their respective internal legal procedures. 
 
2-18
(a) 
promoting trade in goods between the Parties, including through 
consultations on accelerating tariff elimination under this 
Agreement and other issues as appropriate; 
 
(b) 
addressing barriers to trade in goods between the Parties, other 
than those within the competence of other committees, working 
groups or any other subsidiary bodies established under this 
Agreement, especially those related to the application of non-tariff 
measures and, if appropriate, refer these matters to the Commission 
for its consideration;  
 
(c) 
reviewing the future amendments to the Harmonized System to 
ensure that each Party’s obligations under this Agreement are not 
altered, including by establishing, as needed, guidelines for the 
transposition of Parties’ Schedules to Annex 2-D (Tariff 
Commitments) and consulting to resolve any conflicts between:  
 
(i) 
amendments to the Harmonized System and Annex 2-D 
(Tariff Commitments); or  
 
(ii) 
Annex 
2-D 
(Tariff 
Commitments) 
and 
national 
nomenclatures; 
 
(d) 
consulting on and endeavouring to resolve any differences that 
may arise between the Parties on matters related to the 
classification of goods under the Harmonized System and Annex 
2-D (Tariff Commitments); and 
 
(e) 
undertaking any additional work that the Commission may assign 
to it. 
 
4. 
The Committee shall consult, as appropriate, with other committees 
established under this Agreement when addressing issues of relevance to those 
committees. 
 
5. 
The Committee shall, within two years of the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement, submit to the Commission an initial report on its work under 
paragraphs 3(a) and 3(b).  In producing this report, the Committee shall consult, 
as appropriate, with the Committee on Agricultural Trade established under 
Article 2.25 (Committee on Agricultural Trade) and the Committee on Textile and 
Apparel Trade Matters established under Chapter 4 (Textile and Apparel Goods) 
of this Agreement on portions of the report of relevance to those committees. 
 
 
 
 
 
2-19
Section C:  Agriculture 
 
Article 2.19:  Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
agricultural goods means those goods referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement 
on Agriculture;  
 
export subsidies shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Article 1(e) of 
the Agreement on Agriculture, including any amendment of that Article; 
 
modern biotechnology means the application of: 
 
(a) 
in 
vitro 
nucleic 
acid 
techniques, 
including 
recombinant 
deoxyribonucleic acid (rDNA) and direct injection of nucleic acid 
into cells or organelles; or 
 
(b) 
fusion of cells beyond the taxonomic family,  
 
that overcome natural physiological reproductive or recombinant barriers and that 
are not techniques used in traditional breeding and selection; and 
 
products of modern biotechnology means agricultural goods, as well as fish and 
fish products11, developed using modern biotechnology, but does not include 
medicines and medical products. 
 
 
Article 2.20:  Scope 
 
This Section shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party 
relating to trade in agricultural goods. 
 
 
Article 2.21:  Agricultural Export Subsidies 
 
1. 
The Parties share the objective of the multilateral elimination of export 
subsidies for agricultural goods and shall work together to achieve an agreement 
in the WTO to eliminate those subsidies and prevent their reintroduction in any 
form. 
  
2. 
No Party shall adopt or maintain any export subsidy on any agricultural 
good destined for the territory of another Party.12 
 
                                                 
11  For the purposes of Article 2.27 (Trade of Products of Modern Biotechnology) and the 
definition of “products of modern biotechnology”, “fish and fish products” are defined as products 
in Chapter 3 of the Harmonized System.  
 
 
2-20
Article 2.22:  Export Credits, Export Credit Guarantees or Insurance 
Programmes 
 
Recognising the ongoing work in the WTO in the area of export 
competition and that export competition remains a key priority in multilateral 
negotiations, Parties shall work together in the WTO to develop multilateral 
disciplines to govern the provision of export credits, export credit guarantees and 
insurance programmes, including disciplines on matters such as transparency, 
self-financing and repayment terms. 
 
 
Article 2.23:  Agricultural Export State Trading Enterprises 
 
The Parties shall work together toward an agreement in the WTO on 
export state trading enterprises that requires:  
 
(a) 
the elimination of trade distorting restrictions on the authorisation 
to export agricultural goods;  
 
(b) 
the elimination of any special financing that a WTO Member grants 
directly or indirectly to state trading enterprises that export for sale 
a significant share of the Member’s total exports of an agricultural 
good; and 
 
(c) 
greater transparency regarding the operation and maintenance of 
export state trading enterprises. 
 
 
Article 2.24:  Export Restrictions – Food Security 
1. 
Parties recognise that under Article XI:2(a) of GATT 1994, a Party may 
temporarily apply an export prohibition or restriction that is otherwise prohibited 
under Article XI:1 of GATT 1994 on foodstuffs13 to prevent or relieve a critical 
shortage of foodstuffs, subject to meeting the conditions set out in Article 12.1 of 
the Agreement on Agriculture. 
2. 
In addition to the conditions set out in Article 12.1 of the Agreement on 
Agriculture under which a Party may apply an export prohibition or restriction, 
other than a duty, tax or other charge, on foodstuffs: 
(a) 
a Party that: 
(i) 
imposes such a prohibition or restriction on the exportation 
or sale for export of foodstuffs to another Party to prevent 
                                                 
12  For greater certainty and without prejudice to any Party’s position in the WTO, this Article does 
not cover measures referred to in Article 10 of the Agreement on Agriculture. 
13  For the purpose of this Article, foodstuffs include fish and fisheries products, intended for 
human consumption.  
 
2-21
or relieve a critical shortage of foodstuffs, shall in all cases 
notify the measure to the other Parties prior to the date it 
takes effect and, except when the critical shortage is caused 
by an event constituting force majeure, shall notify the 
measure to the other Parties at least 30 days prior to the date 
it takes effect; or 
(ii) 
as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
Party, maintains such a prohibition or restriction, shall, 
within 30 days of that date, notify the measure to the other 
Parties. 
(b) 
A notification under this paragraph shall include the reasons for 
imposing or maintaining the prohibition or restriction, as well as an 
explanation of how the measure is consistent with Article XI:2(a) 
of GATT 1994, and shall note alternative measures, if any, that the 
Party considered before imposing the prohibition or restriction. 
(c) 
A measure shall not be subject to notification under this paragraph 
or paragraph 4 if it prohibits or restricts the exportation or sale for 
export only of a foodstuff or foodstuffs of which the Party 
imposing the measure has been a net importer during each of the 
three calendar years preceding the imposition of the measure, 
excluding the year in which the Party imposes the measure. 
(d) 
If a Party that adopts or maintains a measure referred to in 
subparagraph (a) has been a net importer of each foodstuff subject 
to that measure during each of the three calendar years preceding 
imposition of the measure, excluding the year in which the Party 
imposes the measure, and that Party does not provide the other 
Parties with a notification under subparagraph (a), the Party shall, 
within a reasonable period of time, provide to the other Parties 
trade data demonstrating that it was a net importer of the foodstuff 
or foodstuffs during these three calendar years. 
3. 
A Party that is required to notify a measure under paragraph 2(a) shall: 
(a) 
consult, on request, with any other Party having a substantial 
interest as an importer of the foodstuffs subject to the measure, 
with respect to any matter relating to the measure; 
(b) 
on the request of any Party having a substantial interest as an 
importer of the foodstuffs subject to the measure, provide that 
Party with relevant economic indicators bearing on whether a 
critical shortage within the meaning of Article XI:2(a) of GATT 
1994 exists or is likely to occur in the absence of the measure, and 
on how the measure will prevent or relieve the critical shortage; 
and 
 
2-22
(c) 
respond in writing to any question posed by any other Party 
regarding the measure within 14 days of receipt of the question. 
 
4. 
A Party which considers that another Party should have notified a measure 
under paragraph 2(a) may bring the matter to the attention of that other Party.  If 
the matter is not satisfactorily resolved promptly thereafter, the Party which 
considers that the measure should have been notified may itself bring the measure 
to the attention of the other Parties.  
5. 
A Party should ordinarily terminate a measure subject to notification under 
paragraph 2(a) or 4 within six months of the date it is imposed.  A Party 
contemplating continuation of a measure beyond six months from the date it is 
imposed shall notify the other Parties no later than five months after the date the 
measure is imposed and provide the information specified in paragraph 2(b).  
Unless the Party has consulted with the other Parties that are net importers of any 
foodstuff the exportation of which is prohibited or restricted under the measure, 
the Party shall not continue the measure beyond 12 months from the date it is 
imposed.  The Party shall immediately discontinue the measure when the critical 
shortage, or threat thereof, ceases to exist. 
6. 
No Party shall apply any measure that is subject to notification under 
paragraph 2(a) or 4 to food purchased for non-commercial humanitarian purposes. 
 
 
Article 2.25:  Committee on Agricultural Trade 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Agricultural Trade, 
composed of government representatives of each Party. 
 
2. 
The Committee on Agricultural Trade shall provide a forum for: 
 
(a) 
promoting trade in agricultural goods between the Parties under 
this Agreement and other issues as appropriate; 
 
(b) 
monitoring and promoting cooperation on the implementation and 
administration of this Section, including notification of export 
restrictions on foodstuffs as stipulated in Article 2.24 (Export 
Restrictions – Food Security), and discussing the cooperative work 
identified in Article 2.21 (Agricultural Export Subsidies), Article 
2.22 (Export Credits, Export Credit Guarantees or Insurance 
Programmes) and Article 2.23 (Agricultural Export State Trading 
Enterprises); 
  
(c) 
consultation among the Parties on matters related to this Section in 
coordination with other committees, working groups or any other 
subsidiary bodies established under this Agreement; and 
  
 
2-23
(d) 
undertaking any additional work that the Committee on Trade in 
Goods and the Commission may assign. 
  
3. 
The Committee on Agricultural Trade shall meet as necessary.  During the 
first five years after entry into force of this Agreement, the Committee on 
Agricultural Trade shall meet no less than once a year. 
 
 
Article 2.26:  Agricultural Safeguards 
 
Originating agricultural goods from any Party shall not be subject to any 
duties applied by a Party pursuant to a special safeguard taken under the 
Agreement on Agriculture. 
 
 
Article 2.27:  Trade of Products of Modern Biotechnology 
 
1. 
The Parties confirm the importance of transparency, cooperation and 
exchanging information related to the trade of products of modern biotechnology.  
 
2. 
Nothing in this Article shall prevent a Party from adopting measures in 
accordance with its rights and obligations under the WTO Agreement or other 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Article shall require a Party to adopt or modify its laws, 
regulations and policies for the control of products of modern biotechnology 
within its territory. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall, when available and subject to its laws, regulations and 
policies, make available publicly:  
 
(a) 
any documentation requirements for completing an application for 
the authorisation of a product of modern biotechnology;  
 
(b) 
a summary of any risk or safety assessment that has led to the 
authorisation of a product of modern biotechnology; and 
 
(c) 
a list or lists of the products of modern biotechnology that have 
been authorised in its territory. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall designate and notify a contact point or contact points for 
the sharing of information on issues related to low level presence (LLP) 14 
occurrences, in accordance with Article 27.5 (Contact Points).  
                                                 
14  For the purposes of this Article, “LLP occurrence” means the inadvertent low level presence in 
a shipment of plants or plant products, except for a plant or plant product that is a medicine or 
medical product, of rDNA plant material that is authorised for use in at least one country, but not 
in the importing country, and if authorised for food use, a food safety assessment has been done 
 
2-24
 
6. 
In order to address an LLP occurrence, and with a view to preventing a 
future LLP occurrence, on request of an importing Party, an exporting Party shall, 
when available and subject to its laws, regulations and policies: 
 
(a) 
provide a summary of the risk or safety assessment or assessments, 
if any, that the exporting Party conducted in connection with an 
authorisation of a specific plant product of modern biotechnology; 
 
(b) 
provide, if known to the exporting Party, contact information for 
any entity within its territory that received authorisation for the 
plant product of modern biotechnology and which the Party 
believes is likely to possess: 
 
(i) 
any validated methods that exist for the detection of the 
plant product of modern biotechnology found at a low level 
in a shipment; 
 
(ii) 
any reference samples necessary for the detection of the 
LLP occurrence; and 
 
(iii) 
relevant information that can be used by the importing Party 
to conduct a risk or safety assessment or, if a food safety 
assessment is appropriate, relevant information for a food 
safety assessment in accordance with Annex 3 of the Codex 
Guideline for the Conduct of Food Safety Assessment of 
Foods Derived from Recombinant-DNA Plants (CAC/GL 
45-2003); and 
 
(c) 
encourage an entity referred to in subparagraph (b) to share the 
information referred to in subparagraphs (b)(i), (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) 
with the importing Party. 
 
7. 
In the event of an LLP occurrence, the importing Party shall, subject to its 
laws, regulations and policies:  
 
(a) 
inform the importer or the importer’s agent of the LLP occurrence 
and of any additional information that the importer will be required 
to submit to allow the importing Party to make a decision on the 
disposition of the shipment in which the LLP occurrence has been 
found;   
 
(b) 
if available, provide to the exporting Party a summary of any risk 
or safety assessment that the importing Party has conducted in 
connection with the LLP occurrence; and 
                                                 
based on the Codex Guideline for the Conduct of a Food Safety Assessment of Foods Derived from 
Recombinant-DNA Plants (CAC/GL 45-2003). 
 
2-25
 
(c) 
ensure that the measures15 applied to address the LLP occurrence 
are appropriate to achieve compliance with its laws, regulations and 
policies. 
 
8. 
To reduce the likelihood of trade disruptions from LLP occurrences: 
 
(a) 
each exporting Party shall, consistent with its laws, regulations and 
policies, endeavour to encourage technology developers to submit 
applications to Parties for authorisation of plants and plant 
products of modern biotechnology; and 
 
(b) 
a Party authorising plant and plant products derived from modern 
biotechnology shall endeavour to: 
 
(i) 
allow year-round submission and review of applications for 
authorisation of plants and plant products of modern 
biotechnology; and 
 
(ii) 
increase communications between the Parties regarding 
new authorisations of plants and plant products of modern 
biotechnology so as to improve global information 
exchange. 
 
 
9.  
The Parties hereby establish a working group on products of modern 
biotechnology (Working Group) under the Committee on Agricultural Trade for 
information exchange and cooperation on trade-related matters associated with 
products of modern biotechnology.  The Working Group shall be comprised of 
government representatives of Parties that inform, in writing, the Committee on 
Agricultural Trade that they will participate in the Working Group and name one 
or more government representatives to the Working Group.  
 
10. 
The Working Group shall provide a forum to:  
 
(a) 
exchange, subject to a Party’s laws, regulations and policies, 
information on issues, including on actual and proposed laws, 
regulations and policies, related to the trade of products of modern 
biotechnology; and 
 
(b) 
further enhance cooperation between two or more Parties, when 
there is mutual interest, related to the trade of products of modern 
biotechnology. 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
15  For the purposes of this paragraph, “measures” does not include penalties. 
 
2-26
Section D:  Tariff-Rate Quota Administration 
 
 
Article 2.28:  Scope and General Provisions 
 
1. 
Each Party shall implement and administer tariff-rate quotas (TRQs16) in 
accordance with Article XIII of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, the 
Import Licensing Agreement and Article 2.12 (Import Licensing).  All TRQs 
established by a Party under this Agreement shall be incorporated into that Party’s 
Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments). 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that its procedures for administering its TRQs are 
made available to the public, are fair and equitable, are no more administratively 
burdensome than absolutely necessary, are responsive to market conditions and 
are administered in a timely manner.   
 
3. 
The Party administering a TRQ shall publish all information concerning its 
TRQ administration, including the size of quotas and eligibility requirements; and, 
if the TRQ will be allocated, application procedures, the application deadline, and 
the methodology or procedures that will be used for the allocation or reallocation, 
on its designated publicly available website at least 90 days prior to the opening 
date of the TRQ concerned.  
 
 
Article 2.29:  Administration and Eligibility  
 
1. 
Each Party shall administer its TRQs in a manner that allows importers the 
opportunity to utilise TRQ quantities fully. 
 
2.        (a) 
Except as provided in subparagraphs (b) and (c), no Party shall 
introduce a new or additional condition, limit or eligibility 
requirement on the utilisation of a TRQ for importation of a good, 
including in relation to specification or grade, permissible end-use 
of the imported product or package size, beyond those set out in its 
Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments).17 
 
(b) 
A Party seeking to introduce a new or additional condition, limit or 
eligibility requirement on the utilisation of a TRQ for importation 
of a good shall notify the other Parties at least 45 days prior to the 
proposed effective date of the new or additional condition, limit or 
                                                 
16  For the purposes of this Section, TRQs means only TRQs that are established under this 
Agreement as set out in a Party’s Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments).  For greater 
certainty, this Section shall not apply to TRQs set out in a Party’s Schedule to the WTO 
Agreement. 
 
17  For greater certainty, this paragraph shall not apply to conditions, limits or eligibility 
requirements that apply regardless of whether or not the importer utilises the TRQ when importing 
the good. 
 
2-27
eligibility requirement.  Any Party with a demonstrable 
commercial interest in supplying the good may submit a written 
request for consultations to the Party seeking to introduce the new 
or additional condition, limit or eligibility requirement.  On receipt 
of such a request for consultations, the Party seeking to introduce 
the new or additional condition, limit or eligibility requirement 
shall promptly undertake consultations with the Party that 
submitted the request, in accordance with Article 2.32.6 
(Transparency).   
 
(c) 
The Party seeking to introduce the new or additional condition, 
limit or eligibility requirement may do so if: 
 
(i) 
it has consulted with any Party with a demonstrable 
commercial interest in supplying the good that has 
submitted a written request for consultations pursuant to 
subparagraph (b); and 
 
(ii) 
no Party with a demonstrable commercial interest in 
supplying the good that submitted a written request for 
consultations pursuant to subparagraph (b) objected, after 
the consultation, to the introduction of the new or additional 
condition, limit or eligibility requirement. 
 
(d) 
A new or additional condition, limit or eligibility requirement that 
is the outcome of any consultation held pursuant to subparagraph 
(c), shall be circulated to the Parties prior to its implementation. 
 
 
Article 2.30:  Allocation18 
 
1. 
In the event that access under a TRQ is subject to an allocation 
mechanism, each importing Party shall ensure that:  
 
(a) 
any person of a Party that fulfils the importing Party’s eligibility 
requirements is able to apply and to be considered for a quota 
allocation under the TRQ; 
 
(b) 
unless otherwise agreed, it does not allocate any portion of the 
quota to a producer group, condition access to an allocation on the 
purchase of domestic production or limit access to an allocation to 
processors; 
 
                                                 
18  For the purposes of this Section, “allocation mechanism” means any system where access to the 
TRQ is granted on a basis other than first-come first-served. 
 
2-28
(c) 
each allocation is made in commercially viable shipping quantities 
and, to the maximum extent possible, in the amounts that importers 
request;   
 
(d) 
an allocation for in-quota imports is applicable to any tariff lines 
subject to the TRQ and is valid throughout the TRQ year;  
 
(e) 
if the aggregate TRQ quantity requested by applicants exceeds the 
quota size, allocation to eligible applicants shall be conducted by 
equitable and transparent methods;  
 
(f) 
applicants have at least four weeks after the opening of the 
application period to submit their applications; and  
 
(g) 
quota allocation takes place no later than four weeks before the 
opening of the quota period, unless the allocation is based in whole 
or in part on import performance during the 12-month period 
immediately preceding the quota period.  If the Party bases the 
allocation in whole or in part on import performance during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the quota period, the Party 
shall make a provisional allocation of the full quota amount no later 
than four weeks before the opening of the quota period.  All final 
allocation decisions, including any revisions, shall be made and 
communicated to applicants by the beginning of the quota period. 
 
2. 
During the first TRQ year that this Agreement is in force for a Party, if 
less than 12 months remain in the TRQ year on the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement for that Party, the Party shall make available to quota applicants, 
beginning on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party, the 
quota quantity established in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments), 
multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be a whole number 
consisting of the number of months remaining in the TRQ year on the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement for that Party, including the entirety of the 
month in which this Agreement enters into force for that Party, and the 
denominator of which shall be 12.  The Party shall make the entire quota quantity 
established in its Schedule to Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments) available to quota 
applicants beginning on the first day of each TRQ year thereafter that the quota is 
in operation. 
 
3. 
The Party administering a TRQ shall not require the re-export of a good as 
a condition for application for, or utilisation of, a quota allocation.  
 
4. 
Any quantity of goods imported under a TRQ under this Agreement shall 
not be counted towards, or reduce the quantity of, any other TRQ provided for 
 
2-29
such goods in a Party’s Schedule to the WTO Agreement or under any other trade 
agreements.19 
 
 
Article 2.31:  Return and Reallocation of TRQs 
 
1. 
When a TRQ is administered by an allocation mechanism, a Party shall 
ensure that there is a mechanism for the return and reallocation of unused 
allocations in a timely and transparent manner that provides the greatest possible 
opportunity for the TRQ to be filled.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall publish on a regular basis on its designated publicly 
available website all information concerning amounts allocated, amounts returned 
and, if available, quota utilisation rates.  In addition, each Party shall publish on 
the same website amounts available for reallocation and the application deadline, 
at least two weeks prior to the date on which the Party will begin accepting 
applications for reallocations. 
 
 
Article 2.32:  Transparency 
 
1. 
Each Party shall identify the entity or entities responsible for administering 
its TRQs and designate and notify at least one contact point, in accordance with 
Article 27.5 (Contact Points), to facilitate communications between the Parties on 
matters relating to the administration of its TRQs.  Each Party shall promptly 
notify the other Parties of any amendments to the details of its contact point. 
 
2. 
When a TRQ is administered by an allocation mechanism, the name and 
address of allocation holders shall be published on the designated publicly 
available website. 
 
3. 
When a TRQ is administered on a first-come, first-served basis, over the 
course of each year, the importing Party’s administering authority shall publish, in 
a timely and continually on-going manner on its designated publicly available 
website, utilisation rates and remaining available quantities for each TRQ. 
 
4. 
When a TRQ of an importing Party that is administered on a first-come, 
first-served basis fills, that Party shall publish a notice to this effect on its 
designated publicly available website within 10 days.  
 
                                                 
19  For greater certainty, nothing in this paragraph shall prevent a Party from applying a different 
in-quota rate of customs duty to goods from other Parties, as set out in that Party’s Schedule to 
Annex 2-D (Tariff Commitments), than that applied to the same goods of non-Parties under a TRQ 
established under the WTO Agreement.  Further, nothing in this paragraph requires a Party to 
change the in-quota quantity of any TRQ established under the WTO Agreement. 
 
2-30
5. 
When a TRQ of an importing Party that is administered by an allocation 
mechanism fills, that Party shall publish a notice to this effect on its designated 
publicly available website as early as practicable. 
 
6. 
On written request of an exporting Party or Parties, the Party 
administrating a TRQ shall consult with the requesting Party or Parties regarding 
the administration of its TRQ. 
 
2-31
 
 
ANNEX 2-A 
 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND IMPORT AND EXPORT 
RESTRICTIONS 
 
 
1. 
For greater certainty, nothing in this Annex shall affect the rights or 
obligations of any Party under the WTO Agreement with respect to any measure 
listed in this Annex. 
 
2. 
Article 2.3.1 (National Treatment), Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to the continuation, renewal, or 
amendment made to any law, statute, decree or administrative regulations giving 
rise to a measure set out in this Annex to the extent that the continuation, renewal, 
or amendment does not decrease the conformity of the measure listed with Article 
2.3 (National Treatment) and Article 2.10 (Import and Export Restrictions). 
 
 
Measures of Brunei Darussalam  
 
 
Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to the goods specified in section 31 of Customs Order 2006. 
 
 
Measures of Canada 
 
1. 
Article 2.3.1 (National Treatment), Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to: 
 
(a) 
the export of logs of all species; 
 
(b) 
the export of unprocessed fish pursuant to applicable provincial 
legislation; 
 
(c) 
the importation of goods of the prohibited provisions of tariff items 
9897.00.00, 9898.00.00 and 9899.00.00 referred to in the Schedule 
of the Customs Tariff; 
 
(d) 
Canadian excise duties on absolute alcohol, as listed under tariff 
item 2207.10.90 in Canada’s Schedule of Concessions annexed to 
GATT 1994 (Schedule V), used in manufacturing under the 
provisions of the Excise Act, 2001, Statutes of Canada 2002, c.22, 
as amended;  
 
(e) 
the use of ships in the coasting trade of Canada; and 
 
2-32
 
(f) 
the internal sale and distribution of wine and distilled spirits.  
 
2. 
Article 2.3.1 (National Treatment) shall not apply, as specified in Article 
2.3.3, to a measure affecting the production, publication, exhibition or sale of 
goods 20 that supports the creation, development or accessibility of Canadian 
artistic expression or content. 
 
 
Measures of Chile 
 
 
Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to measures of Chile relating to imports of used vehicles. 
 
 
Measures of Mexico  
 
1. 
Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply: 
 
(a) 
to restrictions pursuant to Article 48 of the Hydrocarbons Law (Ley 
de Hidrocarburos) published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on August 11, 2014, on the exportation 
from Mexico of the goods provided for in the following items of 
Mexico’s tariff schedule of the General Import and Export Duties 
Law (Tarifa de la Ley de los Impuestos Generales de Importación 
y de Exportación) published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on June 18, 2007 and June 29, 2012:  
 
HS 2012 
Description 
2709.00.01 
Crude petroleum oils 
2709.00.99 
Other 
2710.12.04 
Gasoline, excluding those of code 2710.12.03 
2710.19.04 
Gasoil (diesel) or diesel oil and mixtures thereof 
2710.19.05 
Fuel oil 
2710.19.07 
Paraffin oil 
2710.19.08 
Turbosine (kerosene, lamp oil) and blends thereof 
2710.19.99 
Other 
2711.11.01 
Natural gas 
2711.12.01 
Propane 
2711.13.01 
Butanes 
2711.19.01 
Butane and propane, mixed and liquefied 
2711.19.99 
Other 
2711.21.01 
Natural gas 
                                                 
20  Such goods include books, magazines, and media carrying video or music recordings. 
 
2-33
2711.29.99 
Other 
2712.20.01 
Paraffin wax containing less than 0.75% of oil, by 
weight 
2712.90.02 
Microcrystalline waxes 
2712.90.04 
Waxes, excluding those of codes 2712.90.01 and 
2712.90.02 
2712.90.99 
Other 
 
(b) 
during the period prior to January 1, 2019, to prohibitions or 
restrictions on the importation into Mexico of gasoline and diesel 
fuel set forth in Article 123 of the Hydrocarbons Law (Ley de 
Hidrocarburos), published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on August 11, 2014; and 
 
(c) 
to prohibitions or restrictions on the importation into Mexico of 
used tyres, used apparel, used vehicles and used chassis equipped 
with vehicle motors set forth in paragraphs 1(I) and 5 of Annex 
2.2.1 of the Resolution through which the Ministry of Economy 
establishes Rules and General Criteria on International Trade 
(Acuerdo por el que la Secretaría de Economía emite reglas y 
criterios de carácter general en materia de Comercio Exterior), 
published in Mexico’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la 
Federación) on December 31, 2012. 
 
2. 
The Commission shall review paragraph 1(a) pursuant to any review 
conducted under Article 27.2.1(b) (Functions of the Commission). 
 
 
Measures of Peru 
 
 
Article 2.3.1 (National Treatment), Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to:  
 
(a)  
used clothing and footwear pursuant to Law No. 28514 of May 23, 
2005; 
 
(b)  
used vehicles and used automotive engines, parts and replacements 
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 843 of August 30, 1996, Urgent 
Decree No. 079-2000 of September 20, 2000, Urgent Decree No. 
050-2008 of December 18, 2008; 
 
(c)  
used tyres pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 003-97-SA of June 7, 
1997; and 
 
(d) 
used goods, machinery and equipment which utilise radioactive 
energy sources pursuant to Law No. 27757 of June 19, 2002. 
 
 
2-34
 
Measures of the United States  
 
 
Article 2.3.1 (National Treatment), Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export 
Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not apply to:  
 
 
(a) 
controls on the export of logs of all species; and 
 
(b) 
measures under existing provisions of the Merchant Marine Act of 
1920, the Passenger Vessel Act, and 46 U.S.C. § 12102, § 12113, 
and § 12116, to the extent that such measures were mandatory 
legislation at the time of the accession of the United States to the 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1947 (GATT 1947) and 
have not been amended so as to decrease their conformity with Part 
II of GATT 1947.  
 
 
Measures of Viet Nam 
 
Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to:  
 
(a) 
a prohibition on importation, set out in Decree No. 187/2013/ND-
CP dated 20 November 2013 of the Government of Viet Nam or 
Circular No. 04/2014/TT-BCT dated 27 January 2014 of the 
Ministry of Industry and Trade guiding the implementation of the 
Decree No. 187/2013/ND-CP, with respect to a good listed in (i) 
through (iv) of this subparagraph.  The goods listed in (i) through 
(iv) of this subparagraph are:  
 
(i) 
right-hand drive motor vehicles (including right-hand drive 
motor vehicles modified after manufacture to be left-hand 
drive vehicles), except specialised right-hand drive vehicles 
that generally operate in small areas such as cranes, trench 
and canal digging machines, garbage trucks, road sweepers, 
road construction trucks, airport passenger transportation 
buses, fork-lifts used at warehouses and ports;  
 
(ii) 
vehicle components usable exclusively in right-hand drive 
motor vehicles that are not specialised right-hand drive 
vehicles; 
 
(iii) 
motor vehicles more than five years old; 
 
(iv) 
used:21 
                                                 
21  For greater certainty, this subparagraph does not apply with respect to remanufactured goods, in 
accordance with Article 2.11 (Remanufactured Goods). 
 
2-35
 
(A) 
textiles, clothing and footwear; 
 
(B) 
computer printers, fax machines, and computer disk 
drives; 
 
(C) 
laptop computers;  
 
(D) 
refrigeration equipment; 
 
(E) 
household electrical appliances; 
 
(F) 
medical equipment; 
 
(G) 
furniture; 
 
(H) 
household goods made from porcelain, clay, glass, 
metal, resin, rubber, and plastic; 
 
(I) 
frames, tyres (outer and inner), tubes, accessories, 
and engines, of automobiles, tractors, and other 
motor vehicles; 
 
(J) 
internal combustion engines with a capacity below 
30 CV and machines with an internal combustion 
engine with a capacity below 30 CV; and 
 
(K) 
bicycles and tricycles; and 
 
(b) 
a prohibition on exportation, set out in Decree No. 187/2013/ND-
CP dated 20 November 2013 of the Government of Viet Nam or 
Circular No. 04/2014/TT-BCT dated 27 January 2014 of the 
Ministry of Industry and Trade guiding the implementation of the 
Decree No. 187/2013/ND-CP, with respect to a good listed in (i) 
and (ii) of this subparagraph.  The goods listed in (i) and (ii) of this 
subparagraph are: 
 
(i) 
round and sawn timber produced from domestic natural 
forests; and 
 
(ii) 
wooden products (except handicrafts and products 
produced from wood of cultivated forests, imported wood 
or artificial pallet). 
 
 
 
 
 
2-36
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme  
 
 
Article 2.10.1 (Import and Export Restrictions) and Article 2.10.2 shall not 
apply to the import and export of rough diamonds (HS codes 7102.10, 7102.21 
and 7102.31), pursuant to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and any 
subsequent amendments to that scheme. 
 
 
2-37
 
 
ANNEX 2-B 
 
REMANUFACTURED GOODS 
 
 
1. 
Article 2.11.2 (Remanufactured Goods) shall not apply to measures of 
Viet Nam prohibiting or restricting the importation of remanufactured goods for 
three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Viet Nam.  
Thereafter, Article 2.11.2 (Remanufactured Goods) shall apply to all measures of 
Viet Nam, except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Article 2.11.2 (Remanufactured Goods) shall not apply to a prohibition or 
restriction set out in Decree No. 187/2013/ND-CP dated 20 November 2013 of the 
Government of Viet Nam or Circular No. 04/2014/TT-BCT dated 27 January 2014 
of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the importation of a good listed in Table 
2-B-1.  
 
3. 
For greater certainty, Viet Nam shall not:  
 
(a) 
apply any prohibition or restriction on the importation of a 
remanufactured good that is more stringent than the prohibition or 
restriction it applies to the importation of the same good when 
used; or 
 
(b) 
re-impose any prohibition or restriction on the importation of a 
remanufactured good following the removal of the prohibition or 
restriction. 
 
 
Table 2-B-1 
 
 
HS 2012 
Description 
8414.51.91 - - - - With protective screen 
8414.51.99 - - - - Other 
8415.10.10 - - Of an output not exceeding 26.38 kW 
8415.10.90 - - Other 
8419.11.10 - - - Household type 
8419.19.10 - - - Household type 
8421.12.00 - - Clothes-dryers 
8421.21.11 - - - - Filtering machinery and apparatus for domestic use 
8421.91.10 - - - Of goods of subheading 8421.12.00 
8422.11.00 - - Of the household type 
8422.90.10 - - Of machines of subheading 8422.11 
8452.10.00 - Sewing machines of the household type 
 
2-38
8508.19.10 - - - Of a kind suitable for domestic use 
8508.70.10 - - Of vacuum cleaners of subheading 8508.11.00 or 8508.19.10  
8711 
Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an 
auxiliary motor, with or without side-cars; side cars 
8712 
Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery tricycles), not 
motorised (except for racing bicycles in 8712.00.10) 
 
 
 
2-39
 
 
ANNEX 2-C 
 
EXPORT DUTIES, TAXES OR OTHER CHARGES 
 
 
1. 
Article 2.15 (Export Duties, Taxes or Other Charges) shall apply to goods 
provided for in the items listed in a Party’s Section to this Annex only as specified 
below. 
 
2. 
With respect to a good provided for in an item listed in Section 1 to this 
Annex, Malaysia shall not apply any export duties, taxes or other charges in an 
amount greater than that specified for that item in Section 1 to this Annex.  
 
3. 
With respect to a good provided for in an item listed in Section 2 to this 
Annex, Viet Nam shall eliminate any export duties, taxes or other charges in 
accordance with the following categories, as indicated for each item listed in 
Section 2 to this Annex: 
 
(a) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category A may remain in place for five years but shall not 
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 6; 
 
(b) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category B may remain in place for seven years but shall 
not exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, 
tax or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 8; 
 
(c) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category C shall be eliminated in 11 equal annual stages.  
Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax or other charge on 
such goods from January 1 of year 11; 
 
(d) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category D may remain in place for 10 years but shall not 
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 11; 
 
(e) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category E shall be eliminated in 13 equal annual stages.  
Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax or other charge on 
such goods from January 1 of year 13; 
 
(f) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category F may remain in place for 12 years but shall not 
 
2-40
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 13; 
 
(g) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category G shall be eliminated in 16 equal annual stages.  
Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax or other charge on 
such goods from January 1 of year 16; 
 
(h) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category H may remain in place for 15 years but shall not 
exceed the base rate.  Viet Nam shall not apply any export duty, tax 
or other charge on such goods from January 1 of year 16; 
 
(i) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category I shall be reduced to 20 per cent in six equal, 
annual stages from year 1 to year 6.  From January 1 of year 6 until 
December 31 of year 15, export duties, taxes or other charges on 
such goods shall not exceed 20 per cent.  Viet Nam shall not apply 
any export duty, tax or other charge on such goods from January 1 
of year 16; 
 
(j) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category J shall be reduced to 10 per cent in 11 equal, 
annual stages from year 1 to year 11.  From January 1 of year 11 
until December 31 of year 15, export duties, taxes or other charges 
on such goods shall not exceed 10 per cent.  Viet Nam shall not 
apply any export duty, tax or other charge on such goods from 
January 1 of year 16; and 
 
(k) 
export duties, taxes or other charges on goods provided for in the 
items in category K may remain in place but shall not exceed the 
base rate. 
 
4. 
For the purposes of paragraph 3 and Section 2 to this Annex, year 1 means 
the year of entry into force of this Agreement for Viet Nam.  Export duties, taxes 
or other charges on goods provided for in the items in categories C, E, G, I and J 
shall be initially reduced on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for Viet 
Nam.  From year 2, each annual stage of reduction of export duties, taxes and 
other charges shall take effect on January 1 of the relevant year. 
 
5. 
The base rate of export duties, taxes and other charges is indicated for each 
item in this Annex. 
 
6. 
Parties that have listed goods in this Annex shall autonomously endeavour 
to minimise the application and level of their export duties, taxes and other 
charges. 
 
 
2-41
 
Section 1:  Malaysia 
 
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
0602.90 
- - Budded stumps of the genus Hevea         
RM 0.30 each 
- 
1207.10 
 Palm nuts and kernels:    - - Suitable for sowing        
5% 
- 
1207.99 
- - - Illipe seeds (Illipe nuts)             
RM 0.08267/kg 
- 
1209.99 
Seeds, fruit and spores, of a kind used for sowing – other.  
RM 22.05/kg 
- 
1401.20 
Rattans- - Whole              
RM 2.70/kg 
- 
1511.10 
- Crude palm oil               
0% to 8.5% 
- 
1513.21 
- - - Palm kernel       
10% 
- 
1513.29 
- - - - Palm kernel oil, refined, bleached and deodorised (RBD)      
5% 
- 
1516.20 
Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions 
- - - Of palm oil: Crude            
10% 
- 
2620.21 
Slag, ash and residues (other than from the manufacture of iron or steel) 
containing metals, arsenic or their compounds. 
- Containing mainly lead: 
--Leaded gasoline sludges and leaded anti-knock compound sludges 
5% 
- 
2620.29 
- Containing mainly lead: 
--Other  
5% 
- 
2620.30 
- Containing mainly copper               
5% 
- 
2620.40 
- Containing mainly aluminium               
5% 
- 
2620.60 
- Containing arsenic, mercury, thallium or their mixtures, of a kind used for 
the extraction of arsenic or those metals or for the manufacture of their 
chemical compounds         
5% 
- 
2620.91 
-Other: 
 - Containing antimony, beryllium, cadmium, chromium or their mixtures        
5% 
- 
2620.99 
-Other: 
--Other: 
5% 
- 
2621.10 
Other slag and ash, including seaweed ash (kelp); ash and residues from the 
incineration of municipal waste 
- Ash and residues from the incineration of municipal waste         
5% 
- 
2621.90 
-Other:  
5% 
- 
2709.00 
Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude.    
10% 
- 
4007.00 
Vulcanised rubber thread and cord.                
- 
0.20% 
4008.11 
Plates, sheets, strip, rods and profile shapes, of vulcanised rubber other than 
hard rubber. 
-Of cellular rubber : 
- - Plates, sheets and strip        
- 
0.20% 
4008.19 
-Of cellular rubber : 
--Other  
- 
0.20% 
4008.21 
-Of non-cellular rubber: 
- - Plates, sheets and strip:       
- 
0.20% 
4008.29 
-Of non-cellular rubber : 
-- Other  
- 
0.20% 
                                                 
22  Customs Duties Order 2012 - Customs Act 1967. 
 
23  Malaysian Rubber Board (Incorporation) Act 1996, Malaysian Rubber Board (CESS) Order 
1999 and Malaysian Timber Industry Board (Incorporation) Act 1973 - Timber CESS Order 2000 
[P.U.(A) 56/2000]. 
 
2-42
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
4009.11 
Tubes, pipes and hoses, of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber, with or 
without their fittings (for example, joints, elbows, flanges). 
-Not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials : 
-- Without fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.12 
-Not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials : 
-- With fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.21 
-Reinforced or otherwise combined only with metal: 
-- Without fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.22 
-Reinforced or otherwise combined only with metal: 
-- With fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.31 
-Reinforced or otherwise combined only with textile materials : 
-- Without fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.32 
-Reinforced or otherwise combined only with textile materials : 
-- With fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.41 
-Reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials : 
-- Without fittings  
- 
0.20% 
4009.42 
-Reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials : 
- - With fittings        
- 
0.20% 
4010.11 
Conveyor or transmission belts or belting, of vulcanised rubber. 
-Conveyor belts or belting : 
-- Reinforced only with metal  
- 
0.20% 
4010.12 
-Conveyor belts or belting : 
-- Reinforced only with textile materials 
- 
0.20% 
4010.19 
-Conveyor belts or belting : 
-- Other  
- 
0.20% 
4010.31 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
-- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, 
of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm 
- 
0.20% 
4010.32 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
- - Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts),  other 
than V-ribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not 
exceeding 180 cm        
- 
0.20% 
4010.33 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
- - Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-
ribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 
cm           
- 
0.20% 
4010.34 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
- - Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other 
than V-ribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not 
exceeding 240 cm            
- 
0.20% 
4010.35 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
- - Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference  exceeding 60 cm 
but not exceeding 150 cm        
- 
0.20% 
4010.36 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
- - Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference  exceeding 150 
cm but not exceeding 198 cm        
- 
0.20% 
4010.39 
-Transmission belts or belting : 
--Other 
- 
0.20% 
4012.90 
Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of rubber; solid or cushion tyres, tyre 
treads and tyre flaps, of rubber. 
-Other: 
- 
0.20% 
4014.10 
Hygienic or pharmaceutical articles (including teats), of vulcanized rubber 
other than hard rubber, with or without fittings of hard rubber 
- Sheath contraceptives               
- 
0.20% 
4014.90 
-Other:  
- 
0.20% 
 
2-43
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
4015.11 
Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and 
mitts), for all purposes, of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber. 
-Gloves, mittens and mitts : 
-- Surgical  
- 
0.20% 
4015.19 
-Gloves, mittens and mitts : 
--Other: 
- 
0.20% 
4015.90 
- Other  
- 
0.20% 
4016.10 
Other articles of vulcanized rubber other than hard rubber.  
-Of cellular rubber:           
- 
0.20% 
4016.91 
-Other: 
- - Floor coverings and mats              
- 
0.20% 
4016.92 
-Other: 
- - Eraser 
- 
0.20% 
4016.93 
-Other: 
--Gaskets, washers and other seals.  
- 
0.20% 
4016.94 
-Other: 
- - Boat or dock fenders, whether or not inflatable              
- 
0.20% 
4016.95 
-Other: 
- - Other inflatable articles              
- 
0.20% 
4016.99 
-Other: 
--Other: 
- 
0.20% 
4017.00 
Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms, including waste and scrap; 
articles of hard rubber.  
-Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms, including waste and scrap.             
- 
0.20% 
4401.21 
Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or in similar forms; wood 
in chips or particles; sawdust and wood waste and scrap, whether or not 
agglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets or similar forms.  
-Wood in chips or particles: 
- - Coniferous              
- 
RM 2.00/m3 
4401.22 
-Wood in chips or particles: 
- - Non-coniferous              
- 
RM 2.00/m3 
4403.10 
Wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or roughly 
squared 
-Treated with paint, stains, creosote or other preservatives:   
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4403.20 
-Other, coniferous: 
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4403.41 
-Other, of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter 
--Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau: 
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4403.49 
-Other, of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter 
--Other: 
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4403.91 
-Other 
--Of oak (Quercus spp): 
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4403.92 
-Other 
--Of beech (Fagus spp) 
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4403.99 
-Other 
--Other 
15% 
RM 5.00/m3 
4406.10 
Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of wood. 
-Not impregnated             
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4406.90 
-Other 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.10 
Wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, whether or not planed, 
sanded or end-jointed, of a thickness exceeding 6mm. 
-Coniferous:       
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.21 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--Mahogany (Swietenia spp): 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
 
2-44
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
4407.22 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--Virola, Imbuia and Balsa: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.25 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau: 
- 
RM 125.00/m3 
4407.26 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--White Lauan, White Meranti, White Seraya, Yellow Meranti and Alan: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.27 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--Sapelli: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.28 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--Iroko: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.29 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter: 
--Other: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.91 
-Other: 
--Of oak (Quercus spp.): 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.92 
-Other: 
--Of beech (Fagus spp.): 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.93 
-Other: 
--Of maple (Acer spp.):       
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.94 
-Other: 
--Of cherry (Prunus spp.): 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.95 
-Other: 
--Of ash (Fraxinus spp.): 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4407.99 
-Other: 
--Other: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4408.10 
Sheets for veneering (including those obtained by slicing laminated wood), 
for plywood or for similar laminated wood and other wood, sawn lengthwise, 
sliced or peeled, whether or not planed, sanded, spliced or end-jointed, of a 
thickness not exceeding 6mm.  
-Coniferous: 
- 
RM 255.00/m3 
4408.31 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter 
--Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau: 
- 
RM 255.00/m3 
4408.39 
-Of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter 
--Other:            
- 
RM 255.00/m3 
4408.90 
-Other:            
- 
RM 255.00/m3 
4409.10 
Wood (including strips and friezes for parquet flooring, not assembled) 
continuously shaped (tongued, grooved, rebated, chamfered, V-jointed, 
beaded, moulded, rounded or the like) along any of its edges, ends or faces, 
whether or not planed, sanded or end-jointed. 
-Coniferous:  
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4409.21 
-Non-coniferous: 
--Of bamboo: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4409.29 
-Non-coniferous: 
--Other: 
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4410.11 
Particle board, oriented strand board (OSB) and similar board (for example, 
waferboard) of wood or other ligneous materials, whether or not 
agglomerated with resins or other organic binding substances.  
- Of wood: 
--Particle board 
- 
RM 2.00/m3 
4410.12 
- Of wood: 
- - Oriented strand board (OSB)        
- 
RM 2.00/m3 
4410.19 
- Of wood: 
- - Other        
- 
RM 2.00/m3 
4410.90 
- Other         
- 
RM 2.00/m3 
 
2-45
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
4412.10 
Plywood, veneered panels and similar laminated wood. 
- Of  bamboo         
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4412.31 
- Other plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood (other than bamboo), 
each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness: 
- - With at least one outer ply of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 
2 to this Chapter          
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4412.32 
- Other plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood (other than bamboo), 
each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness: 
- - Other, with at least one outer ply of non-coniferous wood             
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4412.39 
- Other plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood (other than bamboo), 
each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness: 
- - Other              
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4412.94 
- Other plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood (other than bamboo), 
each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness: 
- Other:          
- - Blockboard, laminboard and battenboard        
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
4412.99 
- Other: 
--Other:          
- 
RM 5.00/m3 
5906.10 
Rubberised textile fabrics, other than those of heading 59.02. 
- Adhesive tape of a width not exceeding 20 cm               
- 
0.20% 
5906.99 
-Other: 
- - Other              
- 
0.20% 
6506.91 
Other headgear, whether or not lined or trimmed.   
- Other:    
- - Of rubber or of plastics: 
- 
0.20% 
6807.10 
Articles of asphalt or of similar material (for example, petroleum bitumen or 
coal tar pitch) 
- In rolls  
5% 
- 
6808.00 
Panels, boards, tiles, blocks and similar articles of vegetable fibre, of straw or 
of shavings, chips, particles, sawdust or other waste, of wood, agglomerated 
with cement, plaster or other mineral binders. 
5% 
- 
7106.10 
Silver (including silver plated with gold or platinum), unwrought or in semi-
manufactured forms, or in powder form. 
- Powder  
5% 
- 
7106.91 
- Other: 
- - Unwrought 
5% 
- 
7106.92 
- Other: 
-- Semi-manufactured              
5% 
- 
7107.00 
Base metals clad with silver, not further worked than semi-manufactured.               
5% 
- 
7110.11 
Platinum, unwrought or in semi-manufactured forms, or in powder form.  
-Platinum: 
- - Unwrought or in powder form              
5% 
- 
7110.19 
- Platinum: 
- - Other  
5% 
- 
7110.21 
-Palladium 
-- Unwrought or in powder form 
5% 
- 
7110.29 
-Palladium 
-- Other  
5% 
- 
7110.31 
-Rhodium 
-- Unwrought or in powder form 
5% 
- 
7110.39 
-Rhodium 
-- Other 
5% 
- 
7110.41 
-Iridium, osmium and ruthenium 
-- Unwrought or in powder form  
5% 
- 
 
2-46
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
7110.49 
-Iridium, osmium and ruthenium 
-- Other  
5% 
- 
7111.00 
Base metals, silver or gold, clad with platinum, not further worked than 
semi-manufactured.                
5% 
- 
7204.10 
Ferrous waste and scrap; remelting scrap ingots of iron or steel. 
-Waste and scrap of cast iron 
10% 
- 
7204.21 
-Waste and scrap of alloy steel : 
-- Of stainless steel  
10% 
- 
7204.29 
-Waste and scrap of alloy steel : 
-- Other  
10% 
- 
7204.30 
-Waste and scrap of tinned iron or steel  
10% 
- 
7204.41 
-Other waste and scrap : 
-- Turnings, shavings, chips, milling waste, sawdust, filings, 
trimmings and stampings, whether or not in bundles 
10% 
- 
7204.49 
-Other waste and scrap : 
-- Other 
10% 
- 
7204.50 
-Remelting scrap ingots               
10% 
- 
7401.00 
Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper).                
5% 
- 
7402.00 
Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic refining.                
5% 
- 
7403.11 
Refined copper and copper alloys, unwrought. 
- Refined copper: 
- - Cathodes and sections of cathodes              
5% 
- 
7403.12 
- Refined copper: 
- - Wire-bars              
5% 
- 
7403.13 
- Refined copper: 
- - Billets              
5% 
- 
7403.19 
-Refined copper : 
-- Other 
5% 
- 
7403.21 
- Copper alloys: 
- - Copper-zinc base alloys (brass)              
5% 
- 
7403.22 
- Copper alloys: 
- - Copper-tin base alloys (bronze)              
5% 
- 
7403.29 
- Copper alloys: 
- - Other copper alloys (other than master alloys of heading 74.05)              
5% 
- 
7404.00 
Copper waste and scrap.                
10% 
- 
7405.00 
Master alloys of copper.                
10% 
- 
7501.10 
Nickel mattes, nickel oxide sinters and other intermediate products of nickel 
metallurgy.      
- Nickel mattes               
10% 
- 
7501.20 
- Nickel oxide sinters and other intermediate products of nickel metallurgy               
10% 
- 
7502.10 
Unwrought nickel. 
- Nickel, not alloyed               
10% 
- 
7502.20 
- Nickel alloys               
10% 
- 
7602.00 
Aluminium waste and scrap.                
10% 
- 
7801.99 
Unwrought lead.    
- Other:   
-- Other:   
15% 
- 
7802.00 
Lead waste and scrap.                
15% 
- 
7901.11 
Unwrought zinc 
-Zinc, not alloyed : 
-- Containing by weight 99.99 % or more of zinc 
5% 
- 
7901.12 
-Zinc, not alloyed : 
-- Containing by weight less than 99.99 % of zinc 
5% 
- 
 
2-47
HS 2012 
Description 
Export Duty22 
Cess23 
7901.20 
- Zinc alloys          
5% 
- 
8544.20 
Insulated (including enamelled or anodised) wire, cable (including co-axial 
cable) and other insulated electric conductors, whether or not fitted with 
connectors; optical fibre cables, made up of individually sheathed fibres, 
whether or not assembled with electric conductors or fitted with connectors. 
- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors:          
- 
0.20% 
8544.30 
- Ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets of a kind used in vehicles, aircraft 
or ships: 
- 
0.20% 
8544.42 
- Other electric conductors, for a voltage not exceeding 1000 V: 
-- Fitted with connectors:       
- 
0.20% 
8544.49 
- Other electric conductors, for a voltage not exceeding 1000 V: 
--Other: 
- 
0.20% 
9004.90 
Spectacles, goggles and the like, corrective, protective or other. 
- Other: 
- 
0.20% 
9018.39 
Instruments and appliances used in medical, surgical, dental or veterinary 
sciences, including scintigraphic apparatus, other electro-medical apparatus 
and sight-testing instruments.       
- Syringes, needles, catheters, cannulae and the like: 
- - Other:     
- 
0.20% 
9404.10 
Mattress supports; articles of bedding and similar furnishing (for example, 
mattress, quilts, eiderdowns, cushions, pouffes and pillows) fitted with 
springs or stuffed or internally fitted with any material or of cellular rubber 
or plastics, whether or not covered.   
- Mattress supports               
- 
0.20% 
9404.21 
- Mattresses: 
- - Of cellular rubber or plastics, whether or not covered              
- 
0.20% 
9404.90 
- Other               
- 
0.20% 
9506.32 
Articles and equipment for general physical exercise, gymnastics, athletics, 
other sports (including table-tennis) or outdoor games, not specified or 
included elsewhere in this Chapter; swimming pools and paddling pools. 
- Golf clubs and other golf equipment: 
- - Balls              
- 
0.20% 
9506.61 
- Balls, other than golf balls and table-tennis balls: 
- - Lawn-tennis balls              
- 
0.20% 
9506.62 
- Balls, other than golf balls and table-tennis balls: 
- - Inflatable              
- 
0.20% 
9506.69 
- Balls, other than golf balls and table-tennis balls: 
- - Other              
- 
0.20% 
 
 
 
 
2-48
 
Section 2:  Viet Nam 
 
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
1211.90.14 
- - - -  Aquilaria Crassna Pierre 
15% 
C 
1211.90.19 
- - - - Aquilaria Crassna Pierre 
15% 
C 
1211.90.98 
- - - - Aquilaria Crassna Pierre 
15% 
C 
1211.90.99 
- - - - Aquilaria Crassna Pierre 
15% 
C 
2502.00.00 
Unroasted iron pyrites. 
10% 
D 
2503.00.00 
Sulphur of all kinds, other than sublimed sulphur, precipitated sulphur and colloidal 
sulphur. 
10% 
D 
2504.10.00 
-  In powder or in flakes 
10% 
D 
2504.90.00 
-  Other 
10% 
D 
2505.10.00 
-  Silica sands and quartz sands 
30% 
K 
2505.90.00 
-  Other 
30% 
K 
2506.10.00 
-  Quartz 
10% 
D 
2506.20.00 
-  Quartzite 
10% 
K 
2507.00.00 
Kaolin and other kaolinic clays, whether or not calcined. 
10% 
F 
2508.10.00 
-  Bentonite 
10% 
F 
2508.30.00 
-  Fire-clay 
10% 
F 
2508.40.10 
- - Fuller's earth 
10% 
F 
2508.40.90 
- - Other 
10% 
F 
2508.50.00 
-  Andalusite, kyanite and sillimanite 
10% 
F 
2508.60.00 
-  Mullite 
10% 
F 
2508.70.00 
-  Chamotte or dinas earths 
10% 
F 
2509.00.00 
Chalk. 
17% 
G 
2510.10.10 
- - Apatite 
40% 
G 
2510.20.10 
- - - Microspheres having dimension less than or equal 0.25 mm 
15% 
G 
2510.20.10 
- - -  Granules having dimension more than 0.25 mm but not exceeding 15 mm 
25% 
G 
2510.20.10 
- - - Other 
40% 
G 
2511.10.00 
-  Natural barium sulphate (barytes) 
10% 
K 
2511.20.00 
-  Natural barium carbonate (witherite) 
10% 
K 
2512.00.00 
Siliceous fossil meals (for example, kieselguhr, tripolite and diatomite) and similar 
siliceous earths, whether or not calcined, of an apparent specific gravity of 1 or less. 
15% 
E 
2513.10.00 
-  Pumice stone 
10% 
F 
2513.20.00 
-  Emery, natural corundum, natural garnet and other natural abrasives 
10% 
F 
2514.00.00 
Slate, whether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into 
blocks or slabs of a rectangular (including square) shape. 
17% 
K 
2515.11.00 
- -  Crude or roughly trimmed 
17% 
G 
2515.12.10 
- - - Blocks 
17% 
G 
 
2-49
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
2515.12.20 
- - - Slabs 
17% 
G 
2515.20.00 
- - White limestone (white marble) in blocks  
30% 
G 
2515.20.00 
- - Other 
17% 
G 
2516.11.00 
- -  Crude or roughly trimmed 
17% 
K 
2516.12.10 
- - - Blocks 
25% 
K 
2516.12.20 
- - - Slabs 
17% 
K 
2516.20.10 
- - Crude or roughly trimmed 
17% 
K 
2516.20.20 
- - Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a  rectangular 
(including square) shape 
17% 
K 
2516.90.00 
- Other monumental or building stone 
17% 
H 
2517.10.00 
-  Pebbles, gravel, broken or crushed stone, of a kind commonly used for concrete 
aggregates, for road metalling or for railway or other ballast, shingle and flint, 
whether or not heat-treated 
17% 
E 
2517.20.00 
-  Macadam of slag, dross or similar industrial waste, whether or not incorporating 
the materials cited in subheading 2517.10 
17% 
E 
2517.30.00 
-  Tarred macadam 
17% 
E 
2517.41.00 
- - - Of dimension of 1-400 mm 
14% 
E 
2517.41.00 
- - - Other 
17% 
E 
2517.49.00 
- - - Calcium carbonate powder of stones of heading 25.15, of dimension 0.125mm 
or less 
5% 
F 
2517.49.00 
- - - Calcium carbonate powder manufactured from stones of heading 25.15, of 
dimension above 0.125mm to less than 1 mm 
10% 
F 
2517.49.00 
- - - Of dimension of 1-400 mm 
14% 
E 
2517.49.00 
- - - Other 
17% 
E 
2518.10.00 
- Dolomite, not calcined or sintered 
10% 
K 
2518.20.00 
- Calcined or sintered dolomite 
10% 
K 
2518.30.00 
- Dolomite ramming mix 
10% 
K 
2519.10.00 
- Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite) 
10% 
D 
2519.90.10 
- - Fused magnesia; dead-burned (sintered) magnesia 
10% 
D 
2519.90.20 
- - Other 
10% 
D 
2520.10.00 
- Gypsum; anhydrite 
10% 
H 
2520.20.10 
- - Of a kind suitable for use in dentistry 
10% 
H 
2520.20.90 
- - Other 
10% 
H 
2521.00.00 
Limestone flux; limestone and other calcareous stone, of a kind used for the 
manufacture of lime or cement. 
17% 
K 
2522.10.00 
- Quicklime 
5% 
F 
2522.20.00 
- Slaked lime 
5% 
F 
2522.30.00 
- Hydraulic lime 
5% 
F 
2524.10.00 
- Crocidolite 
10% 
K 
2524.90.00 
- Other 
10% 
K 
2526.10.00 
- Not crushed, not powdered 
30% 
K 
 
2-50
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
2526.20.10 
- - Talc powder 
30% 
K 
2526.20.90 
- - Other 
30% 
K 
2528.00.00 
Natural borates and concentrates thereof (whether or not calcined), but not including 
borates separated from natural brine; natural boric acid containing not more than 
85% of H3BO3 calculated on the dry weight. 
10% 
D 
2529.10.00 
- Feldspar 
10% 
H 
2529.21.00 
- - Containing by weight 97% or less of calcium fluoride 
10% 
D 
2529.22.00 
- - Containing by weight more than 97% of calcium fluoride 
10% 
D 
2529.30.00 
- - Leucite; nepheline and nepheline syenite 
10% 
H 
2530.10.00 
- Vermiculite, perlite and chlorites, unexpanded 
10% 
H 
2530.20.10 
- - Kieserite 
10% 
H 
2530.20.20 
- - Epsomite 
10% 
H 
2530.90.10 
- - Zirconium silicates of a kind used as opacifiers 
10% 
H 
2530.90.90 
- - Other 
10% 
H 
2601.11.00 
- - Non-agglomerated 
40% 
I 
2601.12.00 
- - Agglomerated 
40% 
I 
2601.20.00 
- Roasted iron pyrites 
40% 
I 
2602.00.00 
Manganese ores and concentrates, including ferruginous manganese ores and 
concentrates with a manganese content of 20% or more, calculated on the dry 
weight. 
40% 
I 
2603.00.00 
Copper ores and concentrates. 
40% 
K 
2604.00.00 
- Coarse 
30% 
I 
2604.00.00 
- Concentrates 
20% 
J 
2605.00.00 
- Coarse 
30% 
K 
2605.00.00 
- Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2606.00.00 
- Coarse 
30% 
K 
2606.00.00 
- Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2607.00.00 
Lead ores and concentrates. 
40% 
K 
2608.00.00 
Zinc ores and concentrates. 
40% 
I 
2609.00.00 
- Coarse 
30% 
G 
2609.00.00 
- Concentrates 
20% 
G 
2610.00.00 
Chromium ores and concentrates. 
30% 
G 
2611.00.00 
- Coarse 
30% 
G 
2611.00.00 
- Concentrates 
20% 
G 
2612.10.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2612.10.00 
- - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2612.20.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2612.20.00 
- - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2613.10.00 
- Roasted 
20% 
E 
 
2-51
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
2613.90.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
E 
2613.90.00 
- - Concentrates 
20% 
E 
2614.00.10 
- - Ilmenite reduction (TiO2 ≥ 56% and FeO ≤ 11%) 
15% 
K 
2614.00.10 
- - Ilmenite concentrates 
30% 
K 
2614.00.10 
- - Other 
40% 
K 
2614.00.90 
- - Rutile concentrates 83%≤TiO2≤ 87% 
30% 
K 
2614.00.90 
- - Other 
40% 
K 
2615.10.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2615.10.00 
- - - Zirconium powder with dimension less than 75µm 
10% 
K 
2615.10.00 
- - - Other 
20% 
K 
2615.90.00 
- - - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2615.90.00 
- - - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2615.90.00 
- - - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2615.90.00 
- - - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2616.10.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2616.10.00 
- - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2616.90.00 
- - Gold ores and concentrates 
30% 
K 
2616.90.00 
- - - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2616.90.00 
- - - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2617.10.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2617.10.00 
- - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2617.90.00 
- - Coarse 
30% 
K 
2617.90.00 
- - Concentrates 
20% 
K 
2621.90.00 
- - Slag 
7% 
K 
2701.11.00 
- - Anthracite 
10% 
K 
2701.12.10 
- - - Coking coal 
10% 
H 
2701.12.90 
- - - Other 
10% 
K 
2701.19.00 
- - Other coal 
10% 
K 
2701.20.00 
- Briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels manufactured from coal 
10% 
K 
2702.10.00 
- Lignite, whether or not pulverised, but not agglomerated 
15% 
K 
2702.20.00 
- Agglomerated lignite 
15% 
K 
2703.00.10 
- Peat, whether or not compressed into bales, but not agglomerated 
15% 
K 
2703.00.20 
- Agglomerated peat 
15% 
K 
2704.00.10 
- Coke and semi-coke of coal 
13% 
H 
2704.00.20 
- Coke and semi-coke of lignite or of peat 
13% 
H 
2704.00.30 
- Retort carbon 
13% 
H 
2709.00.10 
- Crude petroleum oils 
10% 
K 
 
2-52
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
2709.00.20 
- Condensates 
10% 
K 
2804.70.00 
- - Phosphorus 
5% 
B 
2817.00.10 
- - Zinc oxide in powder 
5% 
B 
2823.00.00 
- Titanium slag (TiO2 ≥ 85%, FeO ≤ 10%) 
10% 
B 
2823.00.00 
- Titanium slag (70% ≤  TiO2  < 85%, FeO ≤ 10%) 
10% 
B 
2823.00.00 
- Rutile  (TiO2 > 87%) 
10% 
B 
3824.90.99 
- - - - Calcium carbonate powder impregnated with stearic acid, manufactured from 
stones of heading 25.15, of dimension less than 1 mm 
3% 
A 
4002.11.00 
- - Latex 
1% 
D 
4002.19.10 
- - - In primary forms or in unvulcanised, uncompounded plates, sheets or strip 
1% 
D 
4002.19.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.20.10 
- - In primary forms    
1% 
D 
4002.20.90 
- - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.31.10 
- - - Unvulcanised, uncompounded plates, sheets or strip       
1% 
D 
4002.31.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.39.10 
- - - Unvulcanised, uncompounded plates, sheets or strip       
1% 
D 
4002.39.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.41.00 
- - Latex 
1% 
D 
4002.49.10 
- - - In primary forms    
1% 
D 
4002.49.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.51.00 
- - Latex 
1% 
D 
4002.59.10 
- - - In primary forms    
1% 
D 
4002.59.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.60.10 
- - In primary forms 
1% 
D 
4002.60.90 
- - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.70.10 
- - In primary forms    
1% 
D 
4002.70.90 
- - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.80.10 
- - Mixtures of natural rubber latex with synthetic rubber latex 
1% 
D 
4002.80.90 
- - Other 
1% 
D 
4002.91.00 
- - Latex 
1% 
D 
4002.99.20 
- - - - Of synthetic rubber latex 
1% 
D 
4002.99.90 
- - - - Of synthetic rubber latex 
1% 
D 
4005.10.10 
- - Of natural gums 
1% 
D 
4005.10.90 
- - Other 
1% 
D 
4005.20.00 
- Solutions; dispersions other than those of subheading 4005.10 
1% 
D 
4005.91.10 
- - - Of natural gums 
1% 
D 
4005.91.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
 
2-53
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
4005.99.10 
- - - Latex 
1% 
D 
4005.99.90 
- - - Other 
1% 
D 
4101.20.10 
- - Pre-tanned 
10% 
A 
4101.20.90 
- - Other 
10% 
A 
4101.50.10 
- - Pre-tanned 
10% 
A 
4101.50.90 
- - Other 
10% 
A 
4101.90.10 
- - Pre-tanned 
10% 
A 
4101.90.90 
- - Other 
10% 
A 
4102.10.00 
- With wool on 
5% 
A 
4102.21.00 
- - Pickled 
5% 
A 
4102.29.10 
- - - Pre-tanned 
5% 
A 
4102.29.90 
- - - Other 
5% 
A 
4103.20.10 
- - - Other 
5% 
A 
4103.20.90 
- - - Other 
5% 
A 
4103.30.00 
- Of swine 
10% 
A 
4103.90.00 
- Other 
10% 
A 
4401.10.00 
- Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or in similar forms 
5% 
D 
4402.10.00 
- Of bamboo 
10% 
D 
4402.90.90 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
4402.90.90 
- - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.10.10 
- - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.10.90 
- - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.20.10 
- - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.20.90 
- - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.41.10 
- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.41.90 
- - - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.49.10 
- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.49.90 
- - - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.91.10 
- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.91.90 
- - - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.92.10 
- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.92.90 
- - - Other 
10% 
D 
4403.99.10 
- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs 
10% 
D 
4403.99.90 
- - - Other 
10% 
D 
4404.10.00 
- Coniferous 
5% 
D 
4404.20.10 
- - Chipwood 
5% 
D 
4404.20.90 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
 
2-54
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
4406.10.00 
- Not impregnated 
20% 
C 
4406.90.00 
- Other 
20% 
C 
4407.10.00 
- - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.10.00 
- - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.21.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.21.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.21.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.21.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.22.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.22.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.22.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.22.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.25.11 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.25.11 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.25.19 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.25.19 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.25.21 
- - - - - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.25.21 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.25.29 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.25.29 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.26.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.26.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.26.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.26.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.27.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.27.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.27.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.27.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.28.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.28.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.28.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
 
2-55
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
4407.28.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.11 
- - - - - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.11 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.19 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.19 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.21 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.21 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.29 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.29 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.31 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.31 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.39 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.39 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.41 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.41 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.49 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.49 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.51 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.51 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.59 
- - - - - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.59 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.61 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.61 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.69 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.69 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.71 
- - - - - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.71 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.79 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.79 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.81 
- - - - - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.81 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
 
2-56
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
4407.29.89 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.89 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.91 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.91 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.92 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.92 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.93 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.93 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.29.99 
- - - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm 
or less 
5% 
D 
4407.29.99 
- - - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.91.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.91.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.91.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.91.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.92.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.92.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.92.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.92.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.93.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.93.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.93.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.93.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.94.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.94.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.94.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.94.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.95.10 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.95.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.95.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.95.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.99.10 
- - - - Of  thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
 
2-57
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
4407.99.10 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4407.99.90 
- - - - Of thickness of 30 mm or less, width of 95 mm or less, length of 1,050 mm or 
less 
5% 
D 
4407.99.90 
- - - - Other 
20% 
C 
4408.10.10 
- - Cedar wood slats of a kind used for pencil manufacture; radiata pinewood of a 
kind used for blockboard manufacture 
5% 
D 
4408.10.30 
- - Face veneer sheets 
5% 
D 
4408.10.90 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
4408.31.00 
- - Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau 
5% 
D 
4408.39.10 
- - - Jelutong wood slats of a kind used for pencil manufacture 
5% 
D 
4408.39.90 
- - - Other 
5% 
D 
4408.90.00 
- Other 
5% 
D 
4409.10.00 
- Coniferous 
5% 
D 
4409.21.00 
- - Of bamboo 
5% 
A 
4409.29.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
7102.10.00 
- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or bruted 
15% 
C 
7102.10.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
7102.21.00 
- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or bruted 
15% 
C 
7102.29.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
7102.31.00 
- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or bruted 
15% 
D 
7102.39.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
7103.10.10 
- - Rubies 
15% 
C 
7103.10.20 
- - Jade (nephrite and jadeite) 
15% 
C 
7103.10.90 
- - Other  
15% 
C 
7103.91.10 
- - - Rubies 
5% 
D 
7103.91.90 
- - - Other  
5% 
D 
7103.99.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
7104.10.10 
- - Unworked 
10% 
D 
7104.10.20 
- - Worked  
5% 
D 
7104.20.00 
- Other, unworked or simply sawn or roughly shaped 
10% 
D 
7104.90.00 
- Other 
5% 
D 
7105.10.00 
- Of diamonds  
3% 
D 
7105.90.00 
- Other 
3% 
D 
7106.10.00 
- Powder 
5% 
D 
7106.91.00 
- - Unwrought 
5% 
D 
7106.92.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
7108.11.00 
- - Powder 
2% 
K 
7108.12.00 
- - Other unwrought forms 
2% 
K 
 
2-58
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
7108.13.00 
- - Other semi-manufactured forms 
2% 
K 
7108.20.00 
- Monetary 
2% 
K 
7113.19.10 
- - - Parts 
2% 
K 
7113.19.90 
- - - Other  
2% 
K 
7114.19.00 
- - Of other precious metal, whether or not plated or clad with precious metal 
2% 
K 
7115.90.10 
- - Of gold or silver 
2% 
K 
7204.10.00 
- Waste and scrap of cast iron 
17% 
H 
7204.21.00 
- - Of stainless steel 
15% 
H 
7204.29.00 
- - Other 
17% 
H 
7204.30.00 
- Waste and scrap of tinned iron or steel 
17% 
H 
7204.49.00 
- - Other 
17% 
H 
7204.50.00 
- Remelting scrap ingots 
17% 
H 
7401.00.00 
- Copper mattes 
15% 
C 
7401.00.00 
- Other 
20% 
C 
7403.11.00 
- - - Pure Refined copper: 
10% 
D 
7403.11.00 
- - - Other 
20% 
C 
7403.12.00 
- - Wire-bars 
20% 
C 
7403.13.00 
- - Billets 
20% 
C 
7403.19.00 
- - Other 
20% 
C 
7403.21.00 
- - Copper-zinc base alloys (brass) 
20% 
C 
7403.22.00 
- - Copper-tin base alloys (bronze) 
20% 
C 
7403.29.00 
- - Other copper alloys (other than master alloys of heading 74.05) 
20% 
C 
7404.00.00 
- Other 
22% 
H 
7405.00.00 
Master alloys of copper. 
15% 
C 
7406.10.00 
- Powders of non-lamellar structure 
15% 
C 
7406.20.00 
- Powders of lamellar structure; flakes 
15% 
C 
7407.10.30 
- - Profiles 
10% 
D 
7407.10.40 
- - Bars and rods 
10% 
D 
7407.21.00 
- - Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass) 
10% 
D 
7407.29.00 
- - Other 
10% 
D 
7501.10.00 
- Nickel mattes  
5% 
A 
7502.10.00 
- Nickel, not alloyed  
5% 
A 
7502.20.00 
- Nickel alloys 
5% 
A 
7503.00.00 
- Other 
22% 
G 
7504.00.00 
Nickel powders and flakes.  
5% 
A 
7505.11.00 
- - Of nickel, not alloyed 
5% 
D 
7505.12.00 
- - Of nickel alloys 
5% 
D 
 
2-59
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
7601.10.00 
- - Ingots 
15% 
D 
7601.20.00 
- - Ingots 
15% 
D 
7602.00.00 
- Other 
22% 
H 
7603.10.00 
- Powders of non-lamellar structure 
10% 
D 
7603.20.00 
- Powders of lamellar structure; flakes 
10% 
D 
7801.10.00 
- - Ingots 
15% 
C 
7801.91.00 
- - - Ingots 
15% 
C 
7801.99.00 
- - - Ingots 
15% 
C 
7802.00.00 
- Other 
22% 
G 
7804.20.00 
- Powders and flakes 
5% 
A 
7806.00.20 
- - Bars, rods, profiles 
5% 
D 
7901.11.00 
- - - Ingots 
10% 
D 
7901.12.00 
- - - Ingots 
10% 
D 
7901.20.00 
- - Ingots 
10% 
D 
7902.00.00 
- Other 
22% 
G 
7903.10.00 
- Zinc dust 
5% 
A 
7903.90.00 
- Other 
5% 
A 
7904.00.00 
- Bars, rods, profiles 
5% 
D 
8001.10.00 
- - Ingots 
10% 
D 
8001.20.00 
- - Ingots 
10% 
D 
8002.00.00 
- Other 
22% 
G 
8003.00.10 
- Soldering bars 
5% 
A 
8003.00.90 
- - Tin bars, rods, profiles 
5% 
A 
8007.00.30 
- - Powders and flakes 
5% 
A 
8101.10.00 
- Powders 
5% 
D 
8101.94.00 
- - Unwrought tungsten, including Bars and rods obtained simply by sintering 
5% 
D 
8101.96.00 
- - Wire 
5% 
D 
8101.97.00 
- - Waste and scrap  
22% 
G 
8101.99.10 
- - - Bars and rods, other than those obtained simply by sintering; profiles, sheets, 
strip and foil 
5% 
D 
8101.99.90 
- - - Other 
5% 
D 
8102.10.00 
- Powders 
5% 
D 
8102.94.00 
- - Unwrought molybdenum, including bars and rods obtained simply by sintering 
5% 
D 
8102.95.00 
- - Bars and rods, other than those obtained simply by sintering, profiles, plates, 
sheets, strip and foil 
5% 
D 
8102.96.00 
- - Wire 
5% 
D 
8102.97.00 
- - Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8102.99.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
 
2-60
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
8103.20.00 
- Unwrought tantalum, including bars and rods obtained simply by sintering; 
powders 
5% 
D 
8103.30.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8103.90.00 
- Other 
5% 
D 
8104.11.00 
- - Containing at least 99.8% by weight of magnesium 
15% 
C 
8104.19.00 
- - Other 
15% 
C 
8104.20.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8104.30.00 
- Raspings, turnings and granules, graded according to size; powders 
15% 
C 
8104.90.00 
- Other 
15% 
C 
8105.20.10 
- - Unwrought cobalt 
5% 
B 
8105.20.90 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
B 
8105.20.90 
- - - Other 
5% 
B 
8105.30.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8105.90.00 
- Other 
5% 
B 
8106.00.10 
- - Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8106.00.10 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
8106.00.90 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8106.00.90 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
8107.20.00 
- Unwrought cadmium; powders 
5% 
D 
8107.30.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8107.90.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8107.90.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
8108.20.00 
- Unwrought titanium; powders 
5% 
D 
8108.30.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8108.90.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8108.90.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
8109.20.00 
- Unwrought zirconium; powders 
5% 
D 
8109.30.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8109.90.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8109.90.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
8110.10.00 
- Unwrought antimony; powders 
5% 
D 
8110.20.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8110.90.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8110.90.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
8111.00.00 
- Waste and scrap 
22% 
G 
8111.00.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8111.00.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
 
2-61
HS 2012 
Description 
Base Rate 
Category 
8112.12.00 
- - Unwrought; powders  
5% 
D 
8112.13.00 
- - Waste and scrap  
22% 
G 
8112.19.00 
- - - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8112.19.00 
- - - Other  
5% 
D 
8112.21.00 
- - Unwrought; powders  
5% 
D 
8112.22.00 
- - Waste and scrap  
22% 
G 
8112.29.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8112.29.00 
- - - Other  
5% 
D 
8112.51.00 
- - Unwrought; powders  
5% 
D 
8112.52.00 
- - Waste and scrap  
22% 
G 
8112.59.00 
- - - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8112.59.00 
- - - Other  
5% 
D 
8112.92.00 
- - - Unwrought; waste and scrap; powders  
22% 
G 
8112.92.00 
- - - Other 
5% 
D 
8112.99.00 
- - - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8112.99.00 
- - - Other 
5% 
D 
8113.00.00 
- - Waste and scrap  
22% 
G 
8113.00.00 
- - Semi-manufactured 
5% 
D 
8113.00.00 
- - Other 
5% 
D 
 
 
 
2-62
 
 
ANNEX 2-D 
 
TARIFF COMMITMENTS 
 
 
Section A:  Tariff Elimination and Reduction 
 
1. 
The base rate of customs duty and staging category for determining the 
interim rate of customs duty at each stage of reduction for an item are indicated 
for that item in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
2. 
Interim staged rates shall be rounded down at least to the nearest tenth of a 
percentage point or, if the rate of duty is expressed in monetary units, as specified 
in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided for in paragraph 4(a), when this 
Agreement enters into force for a Party in accordance with Article 
30.5.1 (Entry into Force), Article 30.5.2 or Article 30.5.3: 
 
(i) 
the rates of customs duties provided for in any tariff line in 
that Party’s Schedule in any staging category other than 
“EIF” shall be initially reduced on the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for that Party; and  
 
(ii) 
except as otherwise provided in that Party’s Schedule, the 
second stage of tariff reduction shall take effect on January 
1 of the following year, and each subsequent annual stage 
of tariff reduction for that Party shall take effect on January 
1 of each subsequent year. 
 
(b) 
Except as provided for in paragraph 4(b)(i), when this Agreement 
enters into force for a Party in accordance with Article 30.5.4 
(Entry into Force) and Article 30.5.5: 
 
(i) 
on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
Party, that Party shall implement all stages of tariff 
reduction that it would have implemented up to that date as 
if this Agreement had entered into force for that Party in 
accordance with Article 30.5.1 (Entry into Force) Article 
30.5.2 or Article 30.5.3; and 
 
(ii) 
except as otherwise provided in that Party’s Schedule, the 
next annual stage of tariff reduction following those stages 
implemented in accordance with subparagraph (b)(i) shall 
take effect on January 1 of the year after the date of entry 
 
2-63
into force of this Agreement for that Party, and each 
subsequent annual stage of tariff reduction for that Party 
shall take effect on January 1 of each subsequent year. 
 
4. 
(a) 
A Party for which this Agreement has entered into force in 
accordance with Article 30.5.1 (Entry into Force), Article 30.5.2 or 
Article 30.5.3 (original Party) may elect, with respect to a Party for 
which the Agreement has entered into force in accordance with 
Article 30.5.4 or Article 30.5.5 (new Party), either to:  
 
(i) 
apply its Schedule to this Annex as if this Agreement had 
entered into force for both Parties on the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for that new Party; or 
 
(ii)  
apply its Schedule to this Annex as if this Agreement had 
entered into force for both Parties on the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for that original Party.  
 
(b) 
If the original Party applies its Schedule as if this Agreement had 
entered into force for both Parties on the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement for the new Party pursuant to subparagraph (a)(i), 
that new Party may elect to apply its Schedule with respect to that 
original Party, either: 
 
(i) 
as if this Agreement had entered into force for both Parties 
on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
new Party; or  
 
(ii) 
as if this Agreement had entered into force for both Parties 
on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
original Party. 
 
(c) 
An original Party shall, no later than 12 days after the date of the 
affirmative determination by the Commission referred to in Article 
30.5.5 (Entry into Force) for a signatory, notify that signatory and 
the other Parties of its election under subparagraph (a) with respect 
to that signatory.  That signatory shall, no later than 24 days after 
the date of the affirmative determination by the Commission 
referred to in Article 30.5.5 (Entry into Force) for that signatory, 
notify the Parties of its election under subparagraph (b) with 
respect to each original Party that notified its election to apply its 
Schedule pursuant to subparagraph (a)(i) for that signatory. 
 
(d) 
If an original Party does not notify an election under subparagraph 
(a) as provided for in subparagraph (c), that original Party shall, on 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement for the new Party, 
apply its Schedule to the new Party as provided for in 
 
2-64
subparagraph (a)(ii).  If a new Party does not notify an election 
under subparagraph (b) as provided for in subparagraph (c), the 
new Party shall, on the date of entry into force of this Agreement 
for that new Party, apply its Schedule to that original Party as 
provided for in subparagraph (b)(ii). 
 
(e) 
For greater certainty: 
 
(i) 
an original Party that applies its Schedule to a new Party as 
provided for in subparagraph (a)(i) may unilaterally 
accelerate the elimination of customs duties on an 
originating good set out in its Schedule to this Annex with 
respect to the new Party in accordance with Article 2.4.5 
(Elimination of Customs Duties); and  
 
(ii) 
a new Party that applies its Schedule to an original Party as 
provided for in subparagraph (b)(i) may unilaterally 
accelerate the elimination of customs duties on an 
originating good set out in its Schedule to this Annex with 
respect to the original Party in accordance with Article 
2.4.5 (Elimination of Customs Duties).  
 
(f) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if, on the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for a new Party for 
which an original Party has elected to apply its Schedule as 
provided for in subparagraph (a)(i): 
 
(i) 
that original Party unilaterally accelerates the elimination of 
customs duties on an originating good of the new Party, 
that original Party shall not subsequently reverse that 
acceleration; and  
 
(ii) 
the new Party unilaterally accelerates the elimination of 
customs duties on an originating good of that original Party, 
the new Party shall not subsequently reverse that 
acceleration.  
 
5. 
In the event of a discrepancy in a Party’s Schedule to this Annex between 
the staging category specified for an item and any tariff rate specified for that item 
for a particular year, that Party shall apply the rate required in accordance with the 
staging category specified for the item. 
 
6. 
For the purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule: 
 
(a) 
year 1 means: 
 
 
2-65
(i) 
except as provided for in subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (a)(iii), 
the year of entry into force of this Agreement for any Party 
in accordance with Article 30.5.1, Article 30.5.2 and 
Article 30.5.3 (Entry into Force); 
 
(ii) 
in the Schedule of an original Party, with respect to goods 
of a new Party for which that original Party has elected to 
apply its Schedule as provided for in paragraph 4(a)(i), the 
year of entry into force of this Agreement for that new 
Party; and 
 
(iii) 
in the Schedule of a new Party, with respect to goods of an 
original Party for which that new Party has elected to apply 
its Schedule as provided for in paragraph 4(b)(i), the year 
of entry into force of this Agreement for the new Party; but 
 
(iv) 
notwithstanding subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (a)(iii): 
 
A) 
for the purposes of any tariff-rate quota or safeguard 
measure set out in the Schedule of a Party and 
applicable to originating goods of all Parties, year 1 
means the year this Agreement enters into force for 
any Party in accordance with Article 30.5.1 (Entry 
into Force); and 
 
B) 
for the purposes of any tariff-rate quota or safeguard 
measure set out in the Schedule of a Party and 
applicable to originating goods of more than one 
Party, but not all Parties, year 1 shall have the 
meaning set out in the Schedule of that Party; 
 
(b) 
year 2 means the year after year 1; year 3 means the year after 
year 2, year 4 means the year after year 3, and so on; and 
 
(c) 
year means a calendar year beginning on January 1 and ending on 
December 31, except as otherwise provided in a Party’s Schedule. 
 
7. 
For tariff lines where a safeguard is applicable as identified in a Party’s 
Schedule to this Annex, the modalities of that safeguard as it applies to originating 
goods are specified in Appendix B to that Party’s Schedule. 
 
 
 
 
2-66
 
Section B:  Tariff Differentials 
 
8. 
Except as otherwise provided in a Party’s Schedule to this Annex, if an 
importing Party applies different preferential tariff treatment to other Parties for 
the same originating good at the time a claim for preferential tariff treatment is 
made in accordance with the importing Party’s Schedule to this Annex, that 
importing Party shall apply the rate of customs duty for the originating good of 
the Party where the last production process, other than a minimal operation, 
occurred. 
 
9. 
For the purposes of paragraph 8, a minimal operation is: 
 
(a) 
an operation to ensure the preservation of a good in good condition 
for the purposes of transport and storage; 
 
(b) 
packaging, re-packaging, breaking up of consignments or putting 
up a good for retail sale, including placing a good in bottles, cans, 
flasks, bags, cases or boxes; 
 
(c) 
mere dilution with water or another substance that does not 
materially alter the characteristics of the good; 
 
(d) 
collection of goods intended to form sets, assortments, kits or 
composite goods; and 
 
(e) 
any combination of operations referred to in subparagraphs (a) 
through (d). 
 
10. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 8 and any applicable rules and conditions set 
out in a Party’s Schedule to this Annex, the importing Party shall allow an 
importer to make a claim for preferential tariff treatment at either: 
 
(a) 
the highest rate of customs duty applicable to an originating good 
from any of the Parties; or 
 
(b) 
the highest rate of customs duty applicable to an originating good 
from any Party where a production process occurred. 
 
