 
 
CHAPTER 27 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 27.1:  Establishment of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Commission 
 
The  Parties  hereby  establish  a  Trans-Pacific  Partnership  Commission 
(Commission), composed of government representatives of each Party at the level 
of  Ministers  or  senior  officials.    Each  Party  shall  be  responsible  for  the 
composition of its delegation.  
 
 
Article 27.2:  Functions of the Commission 
 
1.  The Commission shall:  
 
(a)  consider any matter relating to the implementation or operation of 
this Agreement;  
 
(b)  review, within three years of the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement and at least every five years thereafter, the economic 
relationship and partnership among the Parties;  
 
(c)  consider any proposal to amend or modify this Agreement; 
 
(d)  supervise the work of  all committees, working  groups  and any 
other subsidiary bodies established under this Agreement; 
  
(e)  consider ways to further enhance trade and investment between the 
Parties; 
 
(f)  establish the Rules of Procedure referred to in Article 28.13 (Rules 
of  Procedure  for  Panels),  and,  where  appropriate,  amend  those 
Rules;  
 
(g)  review the roster of panel chairs established under Article 28.11 
(Roster of Panel Chairs and Party Specific Lists) every three years 
and, when appropriate, constitute a new roster; and 
 
(h)  determine whether  this Agreement may enter into  force for an 
original signatory notifying pursuant to Article 30.5.4 (Entry into 
Force). 
 
27-1 2.  The Commission may: 
 
(a)    establish, refer matters to, or consider matters raised by, any ad hoc 
or standing committee, working group or any other subsidiary body; 
 
(b)    merge  or  dissolve  any  committees,  working  groups  or  other 
subsidiary  bodies  established  under  this  Agreement  in  order  to 
improve the functioning of this Agreement; 
 
(c)  consider and adopt, subject to completion of any necessary legal 
procedures by each Party, a modification to this Agreement of 1: 
 
(i)  the  Schedules  to  Annex  2-D  (Tariff  Commitments),  by 
accelerating tariff elimination; 
 
(ii)  the  rules  of  origin  established  in  Annex  3-D  (Product-
Specific  Rules  of  Origin)  and  Annex  4-A  (Textiles  and 
Apparel Product-Specific Rules of Origin); or 
 
(iii)   the  lists  of  entities,  covered  goods  and  services,  and 
thresholds contained in each Party’s Annex to Chapter 15 
(Government Procurement);  
 
(d)  develop arrangements for implementing this Agreement; 
 
(e)    seek to resolve differences or disputes that may arise regarding the 
interpretation or application of this Agreement;  
 
(f)  issue interpretations of the provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(g)  seek the advice of non-governmental persons or groups on any 
matter falling within the Commission’s functions; and 
 
(h)  take any other action as the Parties may agree. 
 
3.  Pursuant to paragraph 1(b), the Commission shall review the operation of 
this Agreement with a view to updating and enhancing this Agreement, through 
negotiations,  as  appropriate,  to  ensure  that  the  disciplines  contained  in  this 
Agreement remain relevant to the trade and investment issues and challenges 
confronting the Parties.  
 
                                                           
1  Chile shall implement the actions of the Commission through Acuerdos de Ejecución, in 
accordance with Article 54, numeral 1, fourth paragraph of the Political Constitution of the 
Republic of Chile (Constitución Política de la República de Chile). 
27-2 4.  In conducting a review pursuant to paragraph 3, the Commission shall take 
into account: 
 
(a)  the  work  of  all  committees,  working  groups  and  any  other 
subsidiary bodies established under this Agreement; 
 
(b)  relevant developments in international fora; and   
 
(c)  as appropriate, input from non-governmental persons or groups of 
the Parties. 
 
 
Article 27.3:  Decision-Making 
 
1.   The  Commission  and  all  subsidiary  bodies  established  under  this 
Agreement shall take all decisions by consensus, except as otherwise provided in 
this Agreement, or as otherwise decided by the Parties.2  Except as otherwise 
provided in this Agreement, the Commission or any subsidiary body shall be 
deemed to have taken a decision by consensus if no Party present at any meeting 
when a decision is taken objects to the proposed decision. 
 
2.  For the purposes of Article 27.2.2(f) (Functions of the Commission), a 
decision of the Commission shall be taken by agreement of all Parties.  A decision 
shall be deemed to be reached if a Party which does not indicate agreement when 
the Commission considers the issue does not object in writing to the interpretation 
considered by the Commission within five days of that consideration. 
 
 
Article 27.4:  Rules of Procedure of the Commission 
1.  The Commission shall meet within one year of the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement and thereafter as the Parties may decide, including as necessary 
to fulfil its functions under Article 27.2 (Functions of the Commission).  Meetings 
of the Commission shall be chaired successively by each Party. 
 
2.  The  Party  chairing  a  session  of  the  Commission  shall  provide  any 
necessary  administrative  support  for  such  session,  and  shall  notify  the  other 
Parties of any decision of the Commission. 
 
3.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Commission and any 
subsidiary body established under this Agreement shall carry out its work through 
                                                           
2   For greater certainty, any such decision on alternative decision-making by the Parties shall itself 
be taken by consensus. 
27-3 whatever  means  are  appropriate,  which  may  include  electronic  mail  or 
videoconferencing. 
 
4.   The  Commission  and  any  subsidiary  body  established  under  this 
Agreement may establish rules of procedures for the conduct of its work.  
 
 
Article 27.5:  Contact Points  
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  designate  an  overall  contact  point  to  facilitate 
communications between the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement, as 
well as other contact points as required by this Agreement.   
 
2.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party shall notify the 
other Parties in writing of its designated contact points no later than 60 days after 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party.  A Party shall notify 
any  Party  for  which  this  Agreement  enters  into  force  at  a  later  date  of  its 
designated contact points, no later than 30 days after the date on which the other 
Party has notified its designated contact points. 
 
 
Article 27.6:  Administration of Dispute Settlement Proceedings 
 
1.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)   designate an office to provide administrative assistance to a panel 
established under Chapter 28 (Dispute Settlement) for a proceeding 
in which it is a disputing Party and to perform such other related 
functions as the Commission may direct; and 
 
(b)   notify the other Parties of the location of its designated office. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  be  responsible  for  the  operation  and  costs  of  its 
designated office.  
 
 
Article 27.7:  Reporting in relation to Party-specific Transition Periods 
 
1.    At each regular meeting of the Commission, any Party which has a Party-
specific transition period for any obligation under this Agreement shall report on 
its plans for and progress towards implementing the obligation. 
 
2.  In  addition,  any  such  Party  shall  provide  a  written  report  to  the 
Commission  on  its  plans  for  and  progress  towards  implementing  each  such 
obligation as follows: 
 
27-4 (a)  for any transition period of three  years or less, the Party shall 
provide a written report six months before the expiration of the 
transition period; and 
 
(b)  for any transition period of more than three years, the Party shall 
provide a yearly written report on the anniversary date of entry into 
force of this Agreement for it, beginning on the third anniversary, 
and  a  written  report  six  months  before  the  expiration  of  the 
transition period.   
 
3.  Any Party may request additional information regarding another Party’s 
progress towards implementing the obligation.  The reporting Party shall promptly 
reply to those requests. 
 
4.  No later than the date on which a transition period expires, a Party with a 
Party-specific  transition  period  shall  provide  written  notification  to  the  other 
Parties of what measures it has taken to implement the obligation for which it has 
a transition period. 
 
5.  If a Party fails to provide the notification referred to in paragraph 4, the 
matter shall be automatically placed on the agenda for the next regular meeting of 
the Commission.  In addition, any Party may request that the Commission meet 
promptly to discuss that matter. 
 
27-5 