 
 
CHAPTER 8 
 
TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
 
 
Article 8.1:  Definitions 
 
1. 
The definitions of the terms used in this Chapter contained in Annex 1 of 
the TBT Agreement, including the chapeau and explanatory notes of Annex 1, are 
incorporated into this Chapter and shall form part of this Chapter, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
2. 
In addition, for the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
consular transactions means requirements that products of a Party intended for 
export to the territory of another Party must first be submitted to the supervision 
of the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the exporting Party for the 
purpose of obtaining consular invoices or consular visas for conformity 
assessment documentation; 
 
marketing authorisation means the process or processes by which a Party 
approves or registers a product in order to authorise its marketing, distribution or 
sale in the Party’s territory.  The process or processes may be described in a 
Party’s laws or regulations in various ways, including “marketing authorisation”, 
“authorisation”, “approval”, “registration”, “sanitary authorisation”, “sanitary 
registration” and “sanitary approval” for a product.  Marketing authorisation does 
not include notification procedures; 
 
mutual recognition agreement means a binding government-to-government 
agreement for recognition of the results of conformity assessment conducted 
against the appropriate technical regulations or standards in one or more sectors, 
including government-to-government agreements to implement the APEC Mutual 
Recognition Arrangement for Conformity Assessment of Telecommunications 
Equipment of May 8, 1998 and the Electrical and Electronic Equipment Mutual 
Recognition Arrangement of July 7, 1999 and other agreements that provide for 
the recognition of conformity assessment conducted against appropriate technical 
regulations or standards in one or more sectors; 
 
mutual recognition arrangement means an international or regional 
arrangement (including a multilateral recognition arrangement) between 
accreditation bodies recognising the equivalence of accreditation systems (based 
on peer review) or between conformity assessment bodies recognising the results 
of conformity assessment; 
 
8-1 
post-market surveillance means procedures taken by a Party after a product has 
been placed on its market to enable the Party to monitor or address compliance 
with the Party’s domestic requirements for products; 
 
TBT Agreement means the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, as 
may be amended; and 
 
verify means to take action to confirm the veracity of individual conformity 
assessment results, such as requesting information from the conformity 
assessment body or the body that accredited, approved, licensed or otherwise 
recognised the conformity assessment body, but does not include requirements 
that subject a product to conformity assessment in the territory of the importing 
Party that duplicate the conformity assessment procedures already conducted with 
respect to the product in the territory of the exporting Party or a third party, except 
on a random or infrequent basis for the purpose of surveillance, or in response to 
information indicating non-compliance. 
 
 
Article 8.2:  Objective 
 
 
The objective of this Chapter is to facilitate trade, including by eliminating 
unnecessary technical barriers to trade, enhancing transparency, and promoting 
greater regulatory cooperation and good regulatory practice. 
 
 
Article 8.3:  Scope 
 
1. 
This Chapter shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of all 
technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures of central 
level of government bodies (and, where explicitly provided for, technical 
regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures of government 
bodies at the level directly below that of the central level of government) that may 
affect trade in goods between the Parties, except as provided in paragraphs 4 and 
5. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall take reasonable measures that are within its authority to 
encourage observance by regional or local government bodies, as the case may be, 
on the level directly below that of the central level of government within its 
territory which are responsible for the preparation, adoption and application of 
technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures, of Article 
8.5 (International Standards, Guides and Recommendations), Article 8.6 
(Conformity Assessment), Article 8.8 (Compliance Period for Technical 
Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures) and each of the Annexes to 
this Chapter. 
 
3. 
All references in this Chapter to technical regulations, standards and 
conformity assessment procedures shall be construed to include any amendments 
8-2 
to them and any addition to the rules or the product coverage of those technical 
regulations, standards and procedures, except amendments and additions of an 
insignificant nature. 
 
4. 
This Chapter shall not apply to technical specifications prepared by a 
governmental entity for its production or consumption requirements.  These 
specifications are covered by Chapter 15 (Government Procurement). 
 
5. 
This Chapter shall not apply to sanitary and phytosanitary measures.  
These are covered by Chapter 7 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures). 
 
6. 
For greater certainty, nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from 
adopting or maintaining technical regulations, standards or conformity assessment 
procedures in accordance with its rights and obligations under this Agreement, the 
TBT Agreement and any other relevant international agreement. 
 
 
Article 8.4:  Incorporation of Certain Provisions of the TBT Agreement 
 
1. 
The following provisions of the TBT Agreement are incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis: 
 
(a) 
Articles 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12; 
 
(b) 
Articles 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9; and 
 
(c) 
paragraphs D, E and F of Annex 3. 
 
2. 
No Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 28 
(Dispute Settlement) for a dispute that exclusively alleges a violation of the 
provisions of the TBT Agreement incorporated under paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 8.5:  International Standards, Guides and Recommendations 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the important role that international standards, 
guides and recommendations can play in supporting greater regulatory alignment, 
good regulatory practice and reducing unnecessary barriers to trade. 
 
2. 
In this respect, and further to Articles 2.4 and 5.4 and Annex 3 of the TBT 
Agreement, to determine whether there is an international standard, guide or 
recommendation within the meaning of Articles 2 and 5 and Annex 3 of the TBT 
Agreement, each Party shall apply the Decisions and Recommendations adopted 
by the WTO Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade Since 1 January 1995 
(G/TBT/1/Rev.12), as may be revised, issued by the WTO Committee on 
Technical Barriers to Trade.  
 
8-3 
3. 
The Parties shall cooperate with each other, when feasible and appropriate, 
to ensure that international standards, guides and recommendations that are likely 
to become a basis for technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures 
do not create unnecessary obstacles to international trade. 
 
 
Article 8.6:  Conformity Assessment 
 
1. 
Further to Article 6.4 of the TBT Agreement, each Party shall accord to 
conformity assessment bodies located in the territory of another Party treatment 
no less favourable than that it accords to conformity assessment bodies located in 
its own territory or in the territory of any other Party.  In order to ensure that it 
accords such treatment, each Party shall apply the same or equivalent procedures, 
criteria and other conditions to accredit, approve, license or otherwise recognise 
conformity assessment bodies located in the territory of another Party that it may 
apply to conformity assessment bodies in its own territory. 
 
2. 
Further to Article 6.4 of the TBT Agreement, if a Party maintains 
procedures, criteria or other conditions as set out in paragraph 1 and requires test 
results, certifications or inspections as positive assurance that a product conforms 
to a technical regulation or standard, the Party: 
 
(a) 
shall not require the conformity assessment body that tests or 
certifies the product, or the conformity assessment body 
conducting an inspection, to be located within its territory; 
 
(b) 
shall not impose requirements on conformity assessment bodies 
located outside its territory that would effectively require those 
conformity assessment bodies to operate an office in that Party’s 
territory; and 
 
(c) 
shall permit conformity assessment bodies in other Parties’ 
territories to apply to the Party for a determination that they 
comply with any procedures, criteria and other conditions the Party 
requires to deem them competent or to otherwise approve them to 
test or certify the product or conduct an inspection. 
 
3. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not preclude a Party from undertaking conformity 
assessment in relation to a specific product solely within specified government 
bodies located in its own territory or in another Party’s territory, in a manner 
consistent with its obligations under the TBT Agreement. 
 
4. 
If a Party undertakes conformity assessment under paragraph 3, and 
further to Articles 5.2 and 5.4 of the TBT Agreement concerning limitation on 
information requirements, the protection of legitimate commercial interests and 
the adequacy of review procedures, the Party shall, on the request of another 
Party, explain: 
8-4 
 
(a) 
how the information required is necessary to assess conformity and 
determine fees; 
 
(b) 
how the Party ensures that the confidentiality of the information 
required is respected in a manner that ensures legitimate 
commercial interests are protected; and 
 
(c) 
the procedure to review complaints concerning the operation of the 
conformity assessment procedure and to take corrective action 
when a complaint is justified. 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2(c) shall not preclude a Party from using mutual 
recognition agreements to accredit, approve, license or otherwise recognise 
conformity assessment bodies located outside its territory. 
 
6. 
Nothing in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 precludes a Party from verifying the 
results of conformity assessment procedures undertaken by conformity assessment 
bodies located outside its territory. 
 
7. 
Further to paragraph 6, in order to enhance confidence in the continued 
reliability of conformity assessment results from the Parties’ respective territories, 
a Party may request information on matters pertaining to conformity assessment 
bodies located outside its territory. 
 
8. 
Further to Article 9.1 of the TBT Agreement, a Party shall consider 
adopting measures to approve conformity assessment bodies that have 
accreditation for the technical regulations or standards of the importing Party, by 
an accreditation body that is a signatory to an international or regional mutual 
recognition arrangement. 1  The Parties recognise that these arrangements can 
address the key considerations in approving conformity assessment bodies, 
including technical competence, independence, and the avoidance of conflicts of 
interest. 
 
9. 
Further to Article 9.2 of the TBT Agreement no Party shall refuse to 
accept conformity assessment results from a conformity assessment body or take 
actions that have the effect of, directly or indirectly, requiring or encouraging 
another Party or person to refuse to accept conformity assessment results from a 
conformity assessment body because the accreditation body that accredited the 
conformity assessment body: 
 
(a) 
operates in the territory of a Party where there is more than one 
accreditation body; 
 
(b) 
is a non-governmental body; 
 
1  The Committee shall be responsible for developing and maintaining a list of such arrangements. 
8-5 
                                                           
(c) 
is domiciled in the territory of a Party that does not maintain a 
procedure for recognising accreditation bodies, provided that the 
accreditation body is recognised internationally, consistent with the 
provisions in paragraph 8; 
 
(d) 
does not operate an office in the Party’s territory; or 
 
(e) 
is a for-profit entity. 
 
10. 
Nothing in paragraph 9 prohibits a Party from refusing to accept 
conformity assessment results from a conformity assessment body on grounds 
other than those set out in paragraph 9 if that Party can substantiate those grounds 
for the refusal, and that refusal is not inconsistent with the TBT Agreement and 
this Chapter. 
 
11. 
A Party shall publish, preferably by electronic means, any procedures, 
criteria and other conditions that it may use as the basis for determining whether 
conformity assessment bodies are competent to receive accreditation, approval, 
licensing or other recognition, including accreditation, approval, licensing or other 
recognition granted pursuant to a mutual recognition agreement. 
 
12. 
If a Party:  
 
(a) 
accredits, approves, licenses or otherwise recognises a body 
assessing conformity with a particular technical regulation or 
standard in its territory, and refuses to accredit, approve, license or 
otherwise recognise a body assessing conformity with that 
technical regulation or standard in the territory of another Party; or  
 
(b) 
declines to use a mutual recognition arrangement,  
 
it shall, on request of the other Party, explain the reasons for its decision. 
 
13. 
If a Party does not accept the results of a conformity assessment procedure 
conducted in the territory of another Party, it shall, on the request of the other 
Party, explain the reasons for its decision. 
 
14. 
Further to Article 6.3 of the TBT Agreement, if a Party declines the 
request of another Party to enter into negotiations to conclude an agreement for 
mutual recognition of the results of each other’s conformity assessment 
procedures, it shall, on request of that other Party, explain the reasons for its 
decision. 
 
15. 
Further to Article 5.2.5 of the TBT Agreement any conformity assessment 
fees imposed by a Party shall be limited to the approximate cost of services 
rendered. 
 
8-6 
16. 
No Party shall require consular transactions, including related fees and 
charges, in connection with conformity assessment.2 
 
 
Article 8.7:  Transparency 
 
1. 
Each Party shall allow persons of another Party to participate in the 
development of technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment 
procedures by its central government bodies3 on terms no less favourable than 
those that it accords to its own persons. 
 
2. 
Each Party is encouraged to consider methods to provide additional 
transparency in the development of technical regulations, standards and 
conformity assessment procedures, including through the use of electronic tools 
and public outreach or consultations. 
 
3. 
If appropriate, each Party shall encourage non-governmental bodies in its 
territory to observe the obligations in paragraphs 1 and 2. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall publish all proposals for new technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures and proposals for amendments to existing 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, and all new final 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures and final 
amendments to existing technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures, of central government bodies. 
 
5. 
A Party may determine the form of proposals for technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures, which may take the form of: policy proposals; 
discussion documents; summaries of proposed technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures; or the draft text of proposed technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures.  Each Party shall ensure that 
its proposals contain sufficient detail about the likely content of the proposed 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures to adequately inform 
interested persons and other Parties about whether and how their trade interests 
might be affected. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall publish preferably by electronic means, in a single official 
journal or website all proposals for new technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures and proposals for amendments to existing technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures, and all new final technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures and final amendments to 
2  For greater certainty, this paragraph shall not apply to a Party verifying conformity assessment 
documents during a marketing authorisation or reauthorisation process. 
 
3  A Party satisfies this obligation by, for example, providing interested persons a reasonable 
opportunity to provide comments on the measure it proposes to develop and taking those 
comments into account in the development of the measure. 
8-7 
                                                           
existing technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, of central 
government bodies, that a Party is required to notify or publish under the TBT 
Agreement or this Chapter, and that may have a significant effect on trade.4 
 
7. 
Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be available to it to 
ensure that all proposals for new technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures and proposals for amendments to existing technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures, and all new final technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures and final amendments to existing technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures, of regional or local 
governments, as the case may be, on the level directly below that of the central 
level of government, are published. 
 
8. 
Each Party shall ensure that all new final technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures and final amendments to existing technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures, and to the extent practicable, 
all proposals for new technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures 
and proposals for amendments to existing technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures, of regional or local governments on the level directly 
below that of the central level of government are accessible through official 
websites or journals, preferably consolidated into a single website. 
 
9. 
Each Party shall notify proposals for new technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures that are in accordance with the technical 
content of relevant international standards, guides or recommendations, if any, 
and that may have a significant effect on trade, according to the procedures 
established under Article 2.9 or 5.6 of the TBT Agreement. 
 
10. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 9, if urgent problems of safety, health, 
environmental protection or national security arise or threaten to arise for a Party, 
that Party may notify a new technical regulation or conformity assessment 
procedure that is in accordance with the technical content of relevant international 
standards, guides or recommendations, if any, upon the adoption of that regulation 
or procedure, according to the procedures established under Article 2.10 or 5.7 of 
the TBT Agreement. 
 
11. 
Each Party shall endeavour to notify proposals for new technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures of regional or local 
governments, as the case may be, on the level directly below that of the central 
level of government that are in accordance with the technical content of relevant 
international standards, guides and recommendations, if any, and that may have a 
significant effect on trade according to the procedures established under Article 
2.9 or 5.6 of the TBT Agreement. 
 
4  For greater certainty, a Party may comply with this obligation by ensuring that the proposed and 
final measures in this paragraph are published on, or otherwise accessible through, the WTO’s 
official website. 
8-8 
                                                           
12. 
For the purposes of determining whether a proposed technical regulation 
or conformity assessment procedure may have a significant effect on trade and 
should be notified in accordance with Article 2.9, 2.10, 3.2, 5.6, 5.7 or 7.2 of the 
TBT Agreement or this Chapter, a Party shall consider, among other things, the 
relevant Decisions and Recommendations Adopted by the WTO Committee on 
Technical Barriers to Trade Since 1 January 1995 (G/TBT/1/Rev. 12), as may be 
revised. 
 
13. 
A Party that publishes a notice and that files a notification in accordance 
with Article 2.9, 3.2, 5.6 or 7.2 of the TBT Agreement or this Chapter shall: 
 
(a) 
include in the notification an explanation of the objectives of the 
proposal and how it would address those objectives; and 
 
(b) 
transmit the notification and the proposal electronically to the other 
Parties through their enquiry points established in accordance with 
Article 10 of the TBT Agreement, at the same time as it notifies 
WTO Members. 
 
14. 
Each Party shall normally allow 60 days from the date it transmits a 
proposal under paragraph 13 for another Party or an interested person of another 
Party to provide comments in writing on the proposal.  A Party shall consider any 
reasonable request from another Party or an interested person of another Party to 
extend the comment period.  A Party that is able to extend a time limit beyond 60 
days, for example 90 days, is encouraged to do so. 
 
15. 
Each Party is encouraged to provide sufficient time between the end of the 
comment period and the adoption of the notified technical regulation or 
conformity assessment procedure, for its consideration of, and preparation of 
responses to, the comments received. 
 
16. 
Each Party shall endeavour to notify the final text of a technical regulation 
or conformity assessment procedure at the time the text is adopted or published, as 
an addendum to the original notification of the proposed measure filed under 
Article 2.9, 3.2, 5.6 or 7.2 of the TBT Agreement or this Chapter. 
 
17. 
A Party that files a notification in accordance with Article 2.10 or 5.7 of 
the TBT Agreement and this Chapter shall, at the same time, transmit the 
notification and text of the technical regulation or conformity assessment 
procedure electronically to the other Parties through the enquiry points referred to 
in paragraph 13(b). 
 
18. 
No later than the date of publication of a final technical regulation or 
conformity assessment procedure that may have a significant effect on trade, each 
Party shall, preferably electronically: 
 
8-9 
(a) 
make publicly available an explanation of the objectives and how 
the final technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure 
achieves them; 
 
(b) 
provide as soon as possible, but no later than 60 days after 
receiving a request from another Party, a description of alternative 
approaches, if any, that the Party considered in developing the final 
technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure and the 
merits of the approach that the Party selected;5 
 
(c) 
make publicly available the Party’s responses to significant or 
substantive issues presented in comments received on the proposal 
for the technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure; 
and 
 
(d) 
provide as soon as possible, but no later than 60 days after 
receiving a request from another Party, a description of significant 
revisions, if any, that the Party made to the proposal for the 
technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure, including 
those made in response to comments. 
 
19. 
Further to paragraph J of Annex 3 of the TBT Agreement, each Party shall 
ensure that its central government standardising body’s work programme, 
containing the standards it is currently preparing and the standards it has adopted, 
is available through the central government standardising body’s website or the 
website referred to in paragraph 6. 
 
 
Article 8.8:  Compliance Period for Technical Regulations and Conformity 
Assessment Procedures 
 
1. 
For the purposes of applying Articles 2.12 and 5.9 of the TBT Agreement 
the term “reasonable interval” means normally a period of not less than six 
months, except when this would be ineffective in fulfilling the legitimate 
objectives pursued by the technical regulation or by the requirements concerning 
the conformity assessment procedure. 
 
2. 
If feasible and appropriate, each Party shall endeavour to provide an 
interval of more than six months between the publication of final technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures and their entry into force. 
 
3. 
In addition to paragraphs 1 and 2, in setting a “reasonable interval” for a 
specific technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure, each Party shall 
ensure that it provides suppliers with a reasonable period of time, under the 
5  For greater certainty, no Party shall be required to provide a description of alternative 
approaches or significant revisions under subparagraph (b) or (d) prior to the date of publication of 
the final technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
8-10 
                                                           
circumstances, to be able to demonstrate the conformity of their goods with the 
relevant requirements of the technical regulation or standard by the date of entry 
into force of the specific technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure.  
In doing so, each Party shall endeavour to take into account the resources 
available to suppliers. 
 
 
Article 8.9:  Cooperation and Trade Facilitation 
 
1. 
Further to Articles 5, 6 and 9 of the TBT Agreement, the Parties 
acknowledge that a broad range of mechanisms exist to facilitate the acceptance 
of conformity assessment results.  In this regard, a Party may: 
 
(a) 
implement mutual recognition of the results of conformity 
assessment procedures performed by bodies located in its territory 
and another Party’s territory with respect to specific technical 
regulations; 
 
(b) 
recognise existing regional and international mutual recognition 
arrangements between or among accreditation bodies or 
conformity assessment bodies; 
 
(c) 
use accreditation to qualify conformity assessment bodies, 
particularly international systems of accreditation; 
 
(d) 
designate conformity assessment bodies or recognise another 
Party’s designation of conformity assessment bodies; 
 
(e) 
unilaterally recognise the results of conformity assessment 
procedures performed in another Party’s territory; and 
 
(f) 
accept a supplier’s declaration of conformity. 
 
2. 
The Parties recognise that a broad range of mechanisms exist to support 
greater regulatory alignment and to eliminate unnecessary technical barriers to 
trade in the region, including: 
 
(a) 
regulatory dialogue and cooperation to, among other things: 
 
(i) 
exchange information on regulatory approaches and 
practices; 
 
(ii) 
promote the use of good regulatory practices to improve the 
efficiency and effectiveness of technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment procedures; 
 
8-11 
(iii) 
provide technical advice and assistance, on mutually agreed 
terms and conditions, to improve practices related to the 
development, implementation and review of technical 
regulations, standards, conformity assessment procedures 
and metrology; or 
 
(iv) 
provide technical assistance and cooperation, on mutually 
agreed terms and conditions, to build capacity and support 
the implementation of this Chapter; 
 
(b) 
greater alignment of national standards with relevant international 
standards, except where inappropriate or ineffective; 
 
(c) 
facilitation of the greater use of relevant international standards, 
guides and recommendations as the basis for technical regulations 
and conformity assessment procedures; and 
 
(d) 
promotion of the acceptance of technical regulations of another 
Party as equivalent. 
 
3. 
With respect to the mechanisms listed in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Parties 
recognise that the choice of the appropriate mechanism in a given regulatory 
context depends on a variety of factors, such as the product and sector involved, 
the volume and direction of trade, the relationship between Parties’ respective 
regulators, the legitimate objectives pursued and the risks of non-fulfilment of 
those objectives. 
 
4. 
The Parties shall strengthen their exchange and collaboration on 
mechanisms to facilitate the acceptance of conformity assessment results, to 
support greater regulatory alignment and to eliminate unnecessary technical 
barriers to trade in the region. 
 
5. 
A Party shall, on request of another Party, give due consideration to any 
sector-specific proposal for cooperation under this Chapter. 
 
6. 
Further to Article 2.7 of the TBT Agreement, a Party shall, on request of 
another Party, explain the reasons why it has not accepted a technical regulation 
of that Party as equivalent. 
 
7. 
The Parties shall encourage cooperation between their respective 
organisations 
responsible 
for 
standardisation, 
conformity 
assessment, 
accreditation and metrology, whether they are public or private, with a view to 
addressing issues covered by this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
8-12 
 
Article 8.10:  Information Exchange and Technical Discussions  
 
1. 
A Party may request another Party to provide information on any matter 
arising under this Chapter.  A Party receiving a request under this paragraph shall 
provide that information within a reasonable period of time, and if possible, by 
electronic means. 
 
2. 
A Party may request technical discussions with another Party with the aim 
of resolving any matter that arises under this Chapter. 
 
3. 
For greater certainty, with respect to technical regulations or conformity 
assessment procedures of regional or local governments, as the case may be, on 
the level directly below that of the central government that may have a significant 
effect on trade, a Party may request technical discussions with another Party 
regarding those matters. 
 
4. 
The relevant Parties shall discuss the matter raised within 60 days of the 
date of the request.  If a requesting Party considers that the matter is urgent, it may 
request that any discussions take place within a shorter time frame.  The 
responding Party shall give positive consideration to that request. 
 
5. 
The Parties shall endeavour to resolve the matter as expeditiously as 
possible, recognising that the time required to resolve a matter will depend on a 
variety of factors, and that it may not be possible to resolve every matter through 
technical discussions. 
 
6. 
Unless the Parties that participate in the technical discussions agree 
otherwise, the discussions and any information exchanged in the course of the 
discussions shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights and 
obligations of the participating Parties under this Agreement, the WTO 
Agreement or any other agreement to which both Parties are party. 
 
7. 
Requests for information or technical discussions and communications 
shall be conveyed through the respective contact points designated pursuant to 
Article 27.5 (Contact Points). 
 
 
Article 8.11:  Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade 
(Committee), composed of government representatives of each Party. 
 
2. 
Through the Committee, the Parties shall strengthen their joint work in the 
fields of technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures 
with a view to facilitating trade between the Parties. 
 
8-13 
3. 
The Committee’s functions may include: 
 
(a) 
monitoring the implementation and operation of this Chapter, 
including any other commitments agreed under this Chapter, and 
identifying any potential amendments to or interpretations of those 
commitments pursuant to Chapter 27 (Administrative and 
Institutional Provisions); 
 
(b) 
monitoring any technical discussions on matters that arise under 
this Chapter requested pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 8.10 
(Information Exchange and Technical Discussions); 
 
(c) 
deciding on priority areas of mutual interest for future work under 
this Chapter and considering proposals for new sector-specific 
initiatives or other initiatives; 
 
(d) 
encouraging cooperation between the Parties in matters that 
pertains to this Chapter, including the development, review or 
modification of technical regulations, standards and conformity 
assessment procedures; 
 
(e) 
encouraging cooperation between non-governmental bodies in the 
Parties’ territories, as well as cooperation between governmental 
and non-governmental bodies in the Parties’ territories in matters 
that pertains to this Chapter; 
 
(f) 
facilitating the identification of technical capacity needs; 
 
(g) 
encouraging the exchange of information between the Parties and 
their relevant non-governmental bodies, if appropriate, to develop 
common approaches regarding matters under discussion in non-
governmental, regional, plurilateral and multilateral bodies or 
systems that develop standards, guides, recommendations, policies 
or other procedures relevant to this Chapter; 
 
(h) 
encouraging, on request of a Party, the exchange of information 
between the Parties regarding specific technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment procedures of non-Parties as 
well as systemic issues, with a view to fostering a common 
approach; 
 
(i) 
taking any other steps the Parties consider will assist them in 
implementing this Chapter and the TBT Agreement; 
 
(j) 
reviewing this Chapter in light of any developments under the TBT 
Agreement, and developing recommendations for amendments to 
this Chapter in light of those developments; and 
8-14 
 
(k) 
reporting to the Commission on the implementation and operation 
of this Chapter. 
 
4. 
The Committee may establish working groups to carry out its functions. 
 
5. 
To determine what activities the Committee will undertake, the Committee 
shall consider work that is being undertaken in other fora, with a view to ensuring 
that any activities undertaken by the Committee do not unnecessarily duplicate 
that work. 
 
6. 
The Committee shall meet within one year of the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement and thereafter as decided by the Parties. 
 
 
Article 8.12:  Contact Points 
 
1. 
Each Party shall designate and notify a contact point for matters arising 
under this Chapter, in accordance with Article 27.5 (Contact Points). 
 
2. 
A Party shall promptly notify the other Parties of any change of its contact 
point or the details of the relevant officials.  
 
3. 
The responsibilities of each contact point shall include: 
 
(a) 
communicating with the other Parties’ contact points, including 
facilitating discussions, requests and the timely exchange of 
information on matters arising under this Chapter; 
 
(b) 
communicating with and coordinating the involvement of relevant 
government agencies, including regulatory authorities, in its 
territory on relevant matters pertaining to this Chapter; 
 
(c) 
consulting and if appropriate, coordinating with interested persons 
in its territory on relevant matters pertaining to this Chapter; and 
 
(d) 
carrying out any additional responsibilities specified by the 
Committee. 
 
 
Article 8.13:  Annexes 
 
1. 
The scope of the Annexes on Pharmaceuticals, Cosmetics, Medical 
Devices and Proprietary Formulas for Prepackaged Foods and Food Additives is 
set out in each respective Annex.  The other Annexes to this Chapter have the 
same scope as that set out in Article 8.3 (Scope). 
 
8-15 
2. 
The rights and obligations set out in each Annex to this Chapter shall 
apply only with respect to the sector specified in that Annex, and shall not affect 
any Party’s rights or obligations under any other Annex.  
 
3. 
Unless the Parties agree otherwise, no later than five years after the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement and thereafter at least once every five years, the 
Committee shall: 
 
(a) 
review the implementation of the Annexes, with a view to 
strengthening or improving them and if appropriate, make 
recommendations to enhance alignment of the Parties’ respective 
technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment 
procedures in the sectors covered by the Annexes; and 
 
(b) 
consider whether the development of Annexes concerning other 
sectors would further the objectives of this Chapter or the 
Agreement and decide whether to recommend to the Commission 
that the Parties initiate negotiations to conclude Annexes covering 
those sectors.  
 
 
 
8-16 
 
 
ANNEX 8-A 
 
WINE AND DISTILLED SPIRITS 
 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to wine and distilled spirits. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
container means any bottle, barrel, cask or other closed receptacle, irrespective of 
size or of the material from which it is made, used for the retail sale of wine or 
distilled spirits;  
 
distilled spirits means a potable alcoholic distillate, including spirits of wine, 
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, tequila, mezcal and all dilutions or mixtures of those 
spirits for consumption; 
 
label means any brand, mark, pictorial or other descriptive matter that is written, 
printed, stencilled, marked, embossed or impressed on, or firmly affixed to the 
primary container of wine or distilled spirits; 
 
oenological practices means winemaking materials, processes, treatments and 
techniques, but does not include labelling, bottling or packaging for final sale; 
 
single field of vision means any part of the surface of a primary container, 
excluding its base and cap, that can be seen without having to turn the container; 
 
supplier means a producer, importer, exporter, bottler or wholesaler; and 
 
wine means a beverage that is produced by the complete or partial alcoholic 
fermentation exclusively of fresh grapes, grape must, or products derived from 
fresh grapes in accordance with oenological practices that the country in which 
the wine is produced authorises under its laws and regulations.6 
 
3. 
Each Party shall make information about its laws and regulations 
concerning wine and distilled spirits publicly available. 
 
4. 
A Party may require a supplier to ensure that any statement required by 
that Party to be placed on a wine or distilled spirits label is: 
 
(a) 
clear, specific, truthful, accurate and not misleading to the 
consumer; and 
 
6  For the United States, the alcohol content of wine must be not less than seven per cent and not 
more than 24 per cent. 
8-17 
                                                           
(b) 
legible to the consumer; and 
 
that such labels be firmly affixed. 
 
5. 
If a Party requires a supplier to indicate information on a distilled spirits 
label, the Party shall permit the supplier to indicate that information on a 
supplementary label that is affixed to the distilled spirits container.  Each Party 
shall permit a supplier to affix the supplementary label on the container of the 
imported distilled spirits after importation but prior to offering the product for sale 
in the Party’s territory, and may require that the supplier affix the supplementary 
label prior to release from customs.  For greater certainty, a Party may require that 
the information indicated on a supplementary label meet the requirements in 
paragraph 4. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall permit the alcoholic content by volume indicated on a 
wine or distilled spirits label to be expressed by alcohol by volume (alc/vol), for 
example 12% alc/vol or alc12%vol, and to be indicated in percentage terms to a 
maximum of one decimal point, for example 12.1%. 
 
7. 
Each Party shall permit suppliers to use the term “wine” as a product 
name.  A Party may require a supplier to indicate additional information on a wine 
label concerning the type, category, class or classification of the wine. 
 
8. 
With respect to wine labels, each Party shall permit the information set out 
in subparagraphs 10(a) through (d) to be presented in a single field of vision for a 
container of wine.  If this information is presented in a single field of vision, then 
the Party’s requirements with respect to placement of this information are 
satisfied.  A Party shall accept any of the information that appears outside a single 
field of vision if that information satisfies that Party’s laws, regulations and 
requirements. 
 
9. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 8, a Party may require net contents to be 
displayed on the principal display panel for a subset of less commonly used 
container sizes if specifically required by that Party's laws or regulations. 
 
10. 
If a Party requires a wine label to indicate information other than: 
 
(a) 
product name; 
 
(b) 
country of origin; 
 
(c) 
net contents; or 
 
(d) 
alcohol content, 
 
it shall permit the supplier to indicate the information on a supplementary label 
affixed to the wine container.  A Party shall permit the supplier to affix the 
8-18 
supplementary label on the container of the imported wine after importation but 
prior to offering the product for sale in the Party’s territory, and may require that 
the supplier affix the supplementary label prior to release from customs.  For 
greater certainty, a Party may require that information on a supplementary label 
meet the requirements set out in paragraph 4. 
 
11. 
For the purposes of paragraphs 4, 5 and 10, if there is more than one label 
on a container of imported wine or distilled spirits, a Party may require that each 
label be visible and not obscure mandatory information on another label. 
 
12. 
If a Party has more than one official language, it may require that 
information on a wine or distilled spirits label appear in equal prominence in each 
official language. 
 
13. 
Each Party shall permit a supplier to place a lot identification code on a 
wine or distilled spirits container, if the code is clear, specific, truthful, accurate 
and not misleading, and shall permit the supplier to determine: 
 
(a) 
where to place the lot identification code on the container, 
provided that the code does not cover up essential information 
printed on the label; and 
 
(b) 
the specific font size, readable phrasing and formatting for the code 
provided that the lot identification code is legible by physical or 
electronic means. 
 
14. 
A Party may impose penalties for the removal or deliberate defacement of 
any lot identification code provided by the supplier and placed on the container. 
 
15. 
No Party shall require a supplier to indicate any of the following 
information on a wine or distilled spirits container, labels or packaging: 
 
(a) 
date of production or manufacture; 
 
(b) 
date of expiration; 
 
(c) 
date of minimum durability; or 
 
(d) 
sell by date, 
 
except that a Party may require a supplier to indicate a date of minimum durability 
or expiration on products7 that could have a shorter date of minimum durability or 
expiration than would normally be expected by the consumer because of: their 
packaging or container, for example bag-in-box wines or individual serving size 
wines; or the addition of perishable ingredients. 
 
7  For Peru, all distilled spirits with less than 10 % alc/vol must have a date of minimum durability. 
8-19 
                                                           
16. 
No Party shall require a supplier to place a translation of a trademark or 
trade name on a wine or distilled spirits container, label or packaging. 
 
17. 
No Party shall prevent imports of wine from other Parties solely on the 
basis that the wine label includes the following descriptors or adjectives 
describing the wine or relating to wine-making: chateau, classic, clos, cream, 
crusted/crusting, fine, late bottled vintage, noble, reserve, ruby, special reserve, 
solera, superior, sur lie, tawny, vintage or vintage character.  This paragraph shall 
not apply to a Party that has entered into an agreement with another country or 
group of countries no later than February 2003 that requires the Party to restrict 
the use of such terms on labels of wine sold in its territory.8 
 
18. 
No Party shall require a supplier to disclose an oenological practice on a 
wine label or container except to meet a legitimate human health or safety 
objective with respect to that oenological practice. 
 
19. 
Each Party shall permit wine to be labelled as Icewine, ice wine, ice-wine 
or a similar variation of those terms, only if the wine is made exclusively from 
grapes naturally frozen on the vine.9 
 
20. 
Each Party shall endeavour to base its quality and identity requirements 
for any specific type, category, class or classification of distilled spirits solely on 
minimum ethyl alcohol content and the raw materials, added ingredients and 
production procedures used to produce that specific type, category, class or 
classification of distilled spirits. 
 
21. 
No Party shall require imported wine or distilled spirits to be certified by 
an official certification body of the Party in whose territory the wine or distilled 
spirits were produced or by a certification body recognised by the Party in whose 
territory the wine or distilled spirits were produced regarding: 
 
(a) 
vintage, varietal and regional claims for wine; or 
 
(b) 
raw materials and production processes for distilled spirits, 
 
8  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require Canada to apply this paragraph in a 
manner inconsistent with its obligations under Article A(3) of Annex V of the EU-Canada Wine 
Agreement, as amended.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require Malaysia to apply 
this paragraph in a manner inconsistent with its Regulation 18(1A) of the Food Regulations 1985 
under the Food Act 1983. 
 
9  For Japan, this obligation is met through implementation of “the standard on labelling of 
domestic wine” by its domestic producers, dated 23 December 1986, as amended.  For New 
Zealand, the obligation in this paragraph will become effective three years after the date on which 
this Agreement enters into force for New Zealand.  Once effective, New Zealand shall implement 
the obligation by ensuring that wine exported from New Zealand is labelled as icewine, ice wine, 
ice-wine, or a similar variation of these terms, only if such wine is made exclusively from grapes 
naturally frozen on the vine. 
8-20 
                                                           
except that the Party may require that wine or distilled spirits be certified 
regarding (a) or (b) if the Party in whose territory the wine or distilled spirits were 
produced requires that certification, that wine be certified regarding (a) if the 
Party has a reasonable and legitimate concern about a vintage, varietal or regional 
claim for wine, or that distilled spirits be certified regarding (b) if certification is 
necessary to verify claims such as age, origin or standards of identity. 
 
22. 
If a Party deems that certification of wine is necessary to protect human 
health or safety or to achieve other legitimate objectives, that Party shall consider 
the Codex Alimentarius Guidelines for Design, Production, Issuance and Use of 
Generic Official Certificates (CAC/GL 38-2001), in particular the use of the 
generic model official certificate, as amended from time-to-time, concerning 
official and officially recognised certificates. 
 
23. 
A Party shall normally permit a wine or distilled spirits supplier to submit 
any required certification, test result or sample only with the initial shipment of a 
particular brand, producer and lot.  If a Party requires a supplier to submit a 
sample of the product for the Party’s procedure to assess conformity with its 
technical regulation or standard, it shall not require a sample quantity larger than 
the minimum quantity necessary to complete the relevant conformity assessment 
procedure.  Nothing in this provision precludes a Party from undertaking 
verification of test results or certification, for example, where the Party has 
information that a particular product may be non-compliant. 
 
24. 
Unless problems of human health or safety arise or threaten to arise for a 
Party, a Party shall not normally apply any final technical regulation, standard or 
conformity assessment procedure to wine or distilled spirits that have been placed 
on the market in the Party’s territory before the date on which the technical 
regulation, standard or conformity assessment procedure enters into force, 
provided that the products are sold within a period of time after the date the 
technical regulation, standard or conformity assessment procedure enters into 
force, stipulated by the authority responsible for that technical regulation, standard 
or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
25. 
Each Party shall endeavour to assess other Parties’ laws, regulations and 
requirements in respect of oenological practices, with the aim of reaching 
agreements that provide for the Parties’ acceptance of each other’s mechanisms 
for regulating oenological practices, if appropriate. 
 
 
8-21 
 
 
ANNEX 8-B 
 
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY  
PRODUCTS 
 
 
Section A:  Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Products 
that Use Cryptography  
 
1. 
This section shall apply to information and communication technology 
(ICT) products that use cryptography.10 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this section: 
 
cryptography means the principles, means or methods for the transformation of 
data in order to hide its information content, prevent its undetected modification 
or prevent its unauthorised use; and is limited to the transformation of information 
using one or more secret parameters, for example, crypto variables, or associated 
key management;  
 
encryption means the conversion of data (plaintext) into a form that cannot be 
easily understood without subsequent re-conversion (ciphertext) through the use 
of a cryptographic algorithm; 
 
cryptographic algorithm or cipher means a mathematical procedure or formula 
for combining a key with plaintext to create a ciphertext; and 
 
key means a parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that 
determines its operation in such a way that an entity with knowledge of the key 
can reproduce or reverse the operation, while an entity without knowledge of the 
key cannot. 
 
3. 
With respect to a product that uses cryptography and is designed for 
commercial applications, no Party shall impose or maintain a technical regulation 
or conformity assessment procedure that requires a manufacturer or supplier of 
the product, as a condition of the manufacture, sale, distribution, import or use of 
the product, to: 
 
(a) 
transfer or provide access to a particular technology, production 
process or other information, for example, a private key or other 
secret parameter, algorithm specification or other design detail, that 
is proprietary to the manufacturer or supplier and relates to the 
cryptography in the product, to the Party or a person in the Party’s 
10  For greater certainty, for the purposes of this section, a “product” is a good and does not include 
a financial instrument. 
8-22 
                                                           
territory; 
 
(b) 
partner with a person in its territory; or 
 
(c) 
use or integrate a particular cryptographic algorithm or cipher, 
 
other than where the manufacture, sale, distribution, import or use of the product 
is by or for the government of the Party. 
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 shall not apply to: (a) requirements that a Party adopts or 
maintains relating to access to networks that are owned or controlled by the 
government of that Party, including those of central banks; or (b) measures taken 
by a Party pursuant to supervisory, investigatory or examination authority relating 
to financial institutions or markets. 
 
5. 
For greater certainty, this Section shall not be construed to prevent a 
Party’s law enforcement authorities from requiring service suppliers using 
encryption they control to provide, pursuant to that Party’s legal procedures, 
unencrypted communications. 
 
 
Section B:  Electromagnetic Compatibility of Information Technology 
Equipment (ITE) Products 
 
1. 
This section shall apply to the electromagnetic compatibility of 
information technology equipment (ITE) products.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this section: 
 
ITE product means any device or system or component thereof that has a 
primary function of entry, storage, display, retrieval, transmission, processing, 
switching or control (or combinations thereof) of data or telecommunication 
messages by means other than radio transmission or reception and, for greater 
certainty, excludes any product or component thereof that has a primary function 
of radio transmission or reception; 
 
electromagnetic compatibility means the ability of an equipment or system to 
function satisfactorily in its electromagnetic environment without introducing 
intolerable electromagnetic disturbances with respect to any other device or 
system in that environment; and 
 
supplier’s declaration of conformity means an attestation by a supplier that a 
product meets a specified standard or technical regulation based on an evaluation 
of the results of conformity assessment procedures. 
 
3. 
If a Party requires positive assurance that an ITE product meets a standard 
or technical regulation for electromagnetic compatibility, it shall accept a 
8-23 
supplier’s declaration of conformity.11 
 
4. 
The Parties recognise that a Party may require testing, for example, by an 
independent accredited laboratory, in support of a supplier’s declaration of 
conformity, registration of the supplier’s declaration of conformity, or submission 
of evidence necessary to support the supplier’s declaration of conformity. 
 
5. 
Nothing in paragraph 3 shall prevent a Party from verifying a supplier’s 
declaration of conformity. 
 
6. 
Paragraph 3 shall not apply with respect to a product: 
 
(a) 
that a Party regulates as a medical device, a medical device system 
or a component of a medical device or medical device system; or 
 
(b) 
for which the Party demonstrates that there is a high risk that the 
product will cause harmful electromagnetic interference with a 
safety or radio transmission or reception device or system. 
 
 
Section C:  Regional Cooperation Activities on Telecommunications 
Equipment 
 
1. 
This section shall apply to telecommunications equipment. 
 
2. 
The Parties are encouraged to implement the APEC Mutual Recognition 
Arrangement for Conformity Assessment of Telecommunications Equipment of 
May 8, 1998 (MRA-TEL) and the APEC Mutual Recognition Arrangement for 
Equivalence of Technical Requirements of October 31, 2010 (MRA-ETR) with 
respect to each other or other arrangements to facilitate trade in 
telecommunications equipment. 
 
 
 
11  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require Mexico to apply this paragraph in a 
manner inconsistent with its Ley Federal Sobre Metrología y Normalización. 
8-24 
                                                           
 
 
ANNEX 8-C 
 
PHARMACEUTICALS 
 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of 
technical regulations, standards, conformity assessment procedures, marketing 
authorisation12 and notification procedures of central government bodies that may 
affect trade in pharmaceutical products between the Parties.  This Annex shall not 
apply to a technical specification prepared by a governmental entity for its 
production or consumption requirements or a sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
2. 
A Party’s obligations under this Annex shall apply to any product that the 
Party defines as a pharmaceutical product pursuant to paragraph 3.  For the 
purposes of this Annex, preparation of a technical regulation, standard, 
conformity assessment procedure or marketing authorisation includes, as 
appropriate, the evaluation of the risks involved, the need to adopt a measure to 
address those risks, the review of relevant scientific or technical information, and 
the consideration of the characteristics or design of alternative approaches. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall define the scope of the products subject to its laws and 
regulations for pharmaceutical products in its territory and make that information 
publicly available. 
 
4. 
Recognising that each Party is required to define the scope of products 
covered by this Annex pursuant to paragraph 3, for the purposes of this Annex, a 
pharmaceutical product may include a human drug or biologic that is intended for 
use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of a disease or 
condition in humans, or intended to affect the structure or any function of the 
body of a human. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall identify the agency or agencies that are authorised to 
regulate pharmaceutical products in its territory and make that information 
publicly available. 
 
6. 
If more than one agency is authorised to regulate pharmaceutical products 
within the territory of a Party, that Party shall examine whether there is overlap or 
duplication in the scope of those authorities and take reasonable measures to 
eliminate unnecessary duplication of any regulatory requirements resulting for 
pharmaceutical products. 
 
12  The application of this Annex to marketing authorisations is without prejudice to whether a 
marketing authorisation meets the definition of a technical regulation, standard or conformity 
assessment procedure. 
8-25 
                                                           
7. 
The Parties shall seek to collaborate through relevant international 
initiatives, such as those aimed at harmonisation, as well as regional initiatives 
that support those international initiatives, as appropriate, to improve the 
alignment of their respective regulations and regulatory activities for 
pharmaceutical products. 
 
8. 
When developing or implementing regulations for marketing authorisation 
of pharmaceutical products, each Party shall consider relevant scientific or 
technical guidance documents developed through international collaborative 
efforts.  Each Party is encouraged to consider regionally-developed scientific or 
technical guidance documents that are aligned with international efforts. 
 
9. 
Each Party shall observe the obligations set out in Articles 2.1 and 5.1.1 of 
the TBT Agreement with respect to a marketing authorisation, notification 
procedure or elements of either that the Party prepares, adopts or applies for 
pharmaceutical products and that do not fall within the definition of a technical 
regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
10. 
Each Party recognises that the applicant is responsible for providing 
sufficient information to a Party for it to make a regulatory determination on a 
pharmaceutical product. 
 
11. 
Each Party shall make its determination whether to grant marketing 
authorisation for a specific pharmaceutical product on the basis of:  
 
(a) 
information, including, if appropriate, pre-clinical and clinical data, 
on safety and efficacy;  
 
(b) 
information on the manufacturing quality of the product; 
 
(c) 
labelling information related to the safety, efficacy and use of the 
product; and 
 
(d) 
other matters that may directly affect the health or safety of the 
user of the product. 
 
To this end, no Party shall require sale data or related financial data concerning 
the marketing of the product as part of the determination.  Further, each Party 
shall endeavour to not require pricing data as part of the determination. 
 
12. 
Each Party shall administer any marketing authorisation process that it 
maintains for pharmaceutical products in a timely, reasonable, objective, 
transparent and impartial manner, and identify and manage any conflicts of 
interest in order to mitigate any associated risks. 
 
(a) 
Each Party shall provide an applicant that requests marketing 
authorisation for a pharmaceutical product with its determination 
8-26 
within a reasonable period of time.  The Parties recognise that the 
reasonable period of time required to make a marketing 
authorisation determination may be affected by factors such as the 
novelty of a product or regulatory implications that may arise. 
 
(b) 
If a Party determines that a marketing authorisation application for 
a pharmaceutical product under review in its jurisdiction has 
deficiencies that have led or will lead to a decision not to authorise 
its marketing, that Party shall inform the applicant that requests 
marketing authorisation and provide reasons why the application is 
deficient. 
 
(c) 
If a Party requires a marketing authorisation for a pharmaceutical 
product, the Party shall ensure that any marketing authorisation 
determination is subject to an appeal or review process that may be 
invoked at the request of the applicant.  For greater certainty, the 
Party may maintain an appeal or review process that is either 
internal to the regulatory body responsible for the marketing 
authorisation determination, such as a dispute resolution or review 
process, or external to the regulatory body. 
 
(d) 
If a Party requires periodic re-authorisation for a pharmaceutical 
product that has previously received marketing authorisation from 
the Party, the Party shall allow the pharmaceutical product to 
remain on its market under the conditions of the previous 
marketing authorisation pending a decision on the periodic 
reauthorisation, unless the Party identifies a significant health or 
safety concern.13, 14 
 
13. 
When developing regulatory requirements for pharmaceutical products, a 
Party shall consider its available resources and technical capacity in order to 
minimise the implementation of requirements that could: 
 
(a) 
inhibit the effectiveness of procedures for ensuring the safety, 
efficacy or manufacturing quality of pharmaceutical products; or  
 
13  For greater certainty, the Parties recognise that an application for reauthorisation that is not filed 
in a timely manner; that contains insufficient information; or that is otherwise inconsistent with a 
Party's requirements, is deficient for the purposes of the reauthorisation decision. 
 
14  Viet Nam may comply with its obligations under this paragraph by allowing for applications for 
reauthorisation to be filed within the 12-month period, prior to the expiry date of the marketing 
authorisation, or within a period prior to the expiry date of the marketing authorisation that is six 
months longer than the period provided for in Viet Nam’s Ministry of Health Circular on 
Registration of Drugs, or subsequent relevant instrument, for the Ministry to grant a re-
authorisation or re-registration application for a previously registered pharmaceutical products, 
whichever is longer. 
8-27 
                                                           
(b) 
lead to substantial delays in marketing authorisation regarding 
pharmaceutical products for sale on that Party’s market. 
 
14. 
No Party shall require that a pharmaceutical product receive marketing 
authorisation from a regulatory authority in the country of manufacture as a 
condition for the product to receive marketing authorisation from that Party. 
 
15. 
For greater certainty, a Party may accept a prior marketing authorisation 
that is issued by another regulatory authority as evidence that a product may meet 
its own requirements.  If there are regulatory resource limitations, a Party may 
require a marketing authorisation from one of a number of reference countries to 
be established and made public by that Party as a condition for the product’s 
marketing authorisation from that Party. 
 
16. 
For a marketing authorisation application for a pharmaceutical product, 
each Party shall review the safety, efficacy and manufacturing quality information 
submitted by the applicant requesting marketing authorisation in a format that is 
consistent with the principles found in the International Conference on 
Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals 
for Human Use Common Technical Document (CTD), as may be amended, 
recognising that the CTD may not address all aspects relevant to a Party’s 
determination to approve marketing authorisation for a particular product.15 
 
17. 
The Parties shall seek to improve their collaboration on pharmaceutical 
inspection, and to this end, each Party shall, with respect to the inspection of a 
pharmaceutical product within the territory of another Party: 
 
(a) 
notify the other Party prior to conducting an inspection, unless 
there are reasonable grounds to believe that doing so could 
prejudice the effectiveness of the inspection; 
 
(b) 
if practicable, permit representatives of the other Party’s competent 
authority to observe that inspection; and 
 
(c) 
notify the other Party of its findings as soon as possible following 
the inspection and, if the findings will be publicly released, no later 
than a reasonable time before release.  The inspecting Party is not 
required to notify the other Party of its findings if it considers that 
those findings are confidential and should not be disclosed. 
 
18. 
The Parties shall seek to apply relevant scientific guidance documents that 
are developed through international collaborative efforts with respect to 
inspection of pharmaceuticals. 
 
 
15  For Viet Nam, this obligation shall not apply until January 1, 2019. 
8-28 
                                                           
 
 
ANNEX 8-D 
 
COSMETICS 
 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of 
technical regulations, standards, conformity assessment procedures, marketing 
authorisation16 and notification procedures of central government bodies that may 
affect trade in cosmetic products between the Parties.  This Annex shall not apply 
to a technical specification prepared by a governmental entity for its production or 
consumption requirements or a sanitary or phytosanitary measure. 
 
2. 
A Party’s obligations under this Annex shall apply to any product that the 
Party defines as a cosmetic product pursuant to paragraph 3.  For the purposes of 
this Annex, preparation of a technical regulation, standard, conformity assessment 
procedure or marketing authorisation includes, as appropriate, the evaluation of 
the risks involved, the need to adopt a measure to address those risks, the review 
of relevant scientific or technical information, and the consideration of the 
characteristics or design of alternative approaches. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall define the scope of the products subject to its laws and 
regulations for cosmetic products in its territory and make that information 
publicly available. 
 
4. 
Recognising that each Party is required to define the scope of products 
covered by this Annex pursuant to paragraph 3, for the purposes of this Annex, a 
cosmetic product may include a product that is intended to be rubbed, poured, 
sprinkled, sprayed on or otherwise applied to the human body including the 
mucous membrane of the oral cavity and teeth, to cleanse, beautify, protect, 
promote attractiveness or alter the appearance. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall identify the agency or agencies that are authorised to 
regulate cosmetic products in its territory and make that information publicly 
available. 
 
6. 
If more than one agency is authorised to regulate cosmetic products within 
the territory of a Party, that Party shall examine whether there is overlap or 
duplication in the scope of those authorities and eliminate unnecessary duplication 
of any regulatory requirements resulting for cosmetic products. 
 
7. 
The Parties shall seek to collaborate through relevant international 
initiatives, such as those aimed at harmonisation, as well as regional initiatives 
16  The application of this Annex to marketing authorisations is without prejudice to whether a 
marketing authorisation meets the definition of a technical regulation, standard or conformity 
assessment procedure. 
8-29 
                                                           
that support of those international initiatives, as appropriate, to improve the 
alignment of their respective regulations and regulatory activities for cosmetic 
products. 
 
8. 
When developing or implementing regulations for cosmetic products, each 
Party shall consider relevant scientific or technical guidance documents developed 
through international collaborative efforts.  Each Party is encouraged to consider 
regionally-developed scientific or technical guidance documents that are aligned 
with international efforts. 
 
9. 
Each Party shall observe the obligations set out in Articles 2.1 and 5.1.1 of 
the TBT Agreement with respect to a marketing authorisation, notification 
procedure or elements of either that the Party prepares, adopts or applies for 
cosmetic products and that do not fall within the definition of a technical 
regulation or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
10. 
Each Party shall ensure that it applies a risk-based approach to the 
regulation of cosmetic products. 
 
11. 
In applying a risk-based approach in regulating cosmetic products, each 
Party shall take into account that cosmetic products are generally expected to pose 
less potential risk to human health or safety than medical devices or 
pharmaceutical products. 
 
12. 
No Party shall conduct separate marketing authorisation processes or sub-
processes for cosmetic products that differ only with respect to shade extensions 
or fragrance variants, unless a Party identifies a significant human health or safety 
concern. 
 
13. 
Each Party shall administer any marketing authorisation process that it 
maintains for cosmetics products in a timely, reasonable, objective, transparent 
and impartial manner, and identify and manage any conflicts of interest in order to 
mitigate any associated risks. 
 
(a) 
If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product, 
that Party shall provide an applicant with its determination within a 
reasonable period of time. 
 
(b) 
If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product 
and it determines that a marketing authorisation application for a 
cosmetic product under review in its jurisdiction has deficiencies 
that have led or will lead to a decision not to authorise its 
marketing, that Party shall inform the applicant that requests 
marketing authorisation and provide reasons why the application is 
deficient. 
 
8-30 
(c) 
If a Party requires a marketing authorisation for a cosmetic 
product, the Party shall ensure that any marketing authorisation 
determination is subject to an appeal or review process that may be 
invoked at the request of the applicant.  For greater certainty, the 
Party may maintain an appeal or review process that is either 
internal to the regulatory body responsible for the marketing 
authorisation determination, such as a dispute resolution or review 
process, or external to the regulatory body. 
 
(d) 
If a Party has granted marketing authorisation for a cosmetic 
product in its territory, the Party shall not subject the product to 
periodic re-assessment procedures as a condition of retaining its 
marketing authorisation.  
 
14. 
If a Party maintains a marketing authorisation process for cosmetic 
products, that Party shall consider replacing this process with other mechanisms 
such as voluntary or mandatory notification and post-market surveillance.  
 
15. 
When developing regulatory requirements for cosmetic products, a Party 
shall consider its available resources and technical capacity in order to minimise 
the implementation of requirements that could: 
 
(a) 
inhibit the effectiveness of procedures for ensuring the safety or 
manufacturing quality of cosmetic products; or  
 
(b) 
lead to substantial delays in marketing authorisation regarding 
cosmetic products for sale on that Party’s market. 
 
16. 
No Party shall require the submission of marketing information, including 
with respect to prices or cost, as a condition for the product receiving marketing 
authorisation. 
 
17. 
No Party shall require a cosmetic product to be labelled with a marketing 
authorisation or notification number.17  
 
18. 
No Party shall require that a cosmetic product receive marketing 
authorisation from a regulatory authority in the country of manufacture, as a 
condition for the product receiving marketing authorisation from the Party.  For 
greater certainty, this provision does not prohibit a Party from accepting a prior 
marketing authorisation issued by another regulatory authority as evidence that a 
product may meet its own requirements. 
17  This paragraph does not apply to Chile and Peru.  Within a period of no more than five years 
from the date of the entry into force of this Agreement, Chile and Peru shall each review their 
respective labelling requirements in order to examine whether other regulatory mechanisms can be 
implemented, in a manner consistent with their obligations under this Chapter and the TBT 
Agreement.  Chile and Peru shall separately report to the Committee about their review upon 
request of another Party.  
8-31 
                                                           
 
19. 
No Party shall require that a cosmetic product be accompanied by a 
certificate of free sale as a condition of marketing, distribution or sale in the 
Party’s territory. 
 
20. 
If a Party requires a manufacturer or supplier of a cosmetic product to 
indicate information on the product’s label, the Party shall permit the 
manufacturer or supplier to indicate the required information by relabelling the 
product or by using supplementary labelling of the product in accordance with the 
Party’s domestic requirements after importation but prior to offering the product 
for sale or supply in the Party’s territory. 
 
21. 
No Party shall require that a cosmetic product be tested on animals to 
determine the safety of that cosmetic product, unless there is no validated 
alternative method available to assess safety.  A Party may, however, consider the 
results of animal testing to determine the safety of a cosmetic product. 
 
22. 
If a Party prepares or adopts good manufacturing practice guidelines for 
cosmetic products, it shall use relevant international standards for cosmetic 
products, or the relevant parts of them, as a basis for its guidelines unless those 
international standards or relevant parts would be an ineffective or inappropriate 
means for the fulfilment of the legitimate objectives pursued. 
 
23. 
Each Party shall endeavour to share, subject to its laws and regulations, 
information from post-market surveillance of cosmetic products. 
 
24. 
Each Party shall endeavour to share information on its findings or the 
findings of its relevant institutions regarding cosmetic ingredients. 
 
25. 
Each Party shall endeavour to avoid re-testing or re-evaluating cosmetic 
products that differ only with respect to shade extensions or fragrance variants, 
unless conducted for human health or safety purposes. 
 
 
8-32 
 
 
ANNEX 8-E 
 
MEDICAL DEVICES 
 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of 
technical regulations, standards, conformity assessment procedures, marketing 
authorisation18 and notification procedures of central government bodies that may 
affect trade in medical devices between the Parties.  This Annex shall not apply to 
a technical specification prepared by a governmental entity for its production or 
consumption requirements or a sanitary or phytosanitary measure.  
 
2. 
A Party’s obligations under this Annex shall apply to any product that the 
Party defines as a medical device pursuant to paragraph 3.  For the purposes of 
this Annex, preparation of a technical regulation, standard, conformity assessment 
procedure or marketing authorisation includes, as appropriate the evaluation of the 
risks involved, the need to adopt a measure to address those risks, the review of 
relevant scientific or technical information, and the consideration of the 
characteristics or design of alternative approaches. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall define the scope of the products subject to its laws and 
regulations for medical devices in its territory and make that information publicly 
available. 
 
4. 
Recognising that each Party is required to define the scope of products 
covered by this Annex pursuant to paragraph 3, each Party should define the 
scope of products subject to its laws and regulations for medical devices in a 
manner that is consistent with the meaning assigned to the term “medical device” 
in the Definition of the Terms ‘Medical Device’ and ‘In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) 
Medical Device’ endorsed by the Global Harmonization Task Force on May 16, 
2012, as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall identify the agency or agencies that are authorised to 
regulate medical devices in its territory and make that information publicly 
available. 
 
6. 
If more than one agency is authorised to regulate medical devices within 
the territory of a Party, that Party shall examine whether there is overlap or 
duplication in the scope of those authorities and to take reasonable measures to 
eliminate unnecessary duplication of any regulatory requirements resulting for 
medical devices. 
 
18  The application of this Annex to marketing authorisations is without prejudice to whether a 
marketing authorisation meets the definition of a technical regulation, standard, or conformity 
assessment procedure. 
8-33 
                                                           
7. 
The Parties shall seek to collaborate through relevant international 
initiatives, such as those aimed at harmonisation, as well as regional initiatives 
that support of those international initiatives, as appropriate, to improve the 
alignment of their respective regulations and regulatory activities for medical 
devices. 
 
8. 
When developing or implementing regulations for marketing authorisation 
of medical devices, each Party shall consider relevant scientific or technical 
guidance documents developed through international collaborative efforts.  Each 
Party is encouraged to consider regionally-developed scientific or technical 
guidance documents that are aligned with international efforts. 
 
9. 
Each Party shall observe the obligations set out in Articles 2.1 and 5.1.1 of 
the TBT Agreement with respect to a marketing authorisation, notification 
procedure or elements of either that the Party prepares, adopts or applies for 
medical devices and that do not fall within the definition of a technical regulation 
or conformity assessment procedure. 
 
10. 
Recognising that different medical devices pose different levels of risk, 
each Party shall classify medical devices based on risk, taking into account 
scientifically relevant factors.  Each Party shall ensure that, when it regulates a 
medical device, it regulates the device consistent with the classification the Party 
has assigned to that device. 
 
11. 
Each Party recognises that the applicant is responsible for providing 
sufficient information to a Party for it to make a regulatory determination on a 
medical device. 
 
12. 
Each Party shall make a determination whether to grant marketing 
authorisation for a specific medical device on the basis of: 
 
(a) 
information, including, if appropriate, clinical data, on safety and 
efficacy; 
 
(b) 
information on performance, design and manufacturing quality of 
the device; 
 
(c) 
labelling information related to safety, efficacy and use of the 
device; and 
 
(d) 
other matters that may directly affect the health or safety of the 
user of the device. 
 
To this end, no Party shall require sale data, pricing or related financial data 
concerning the marketing of the medical device. 
 
8-34 
13. 
Each Party shall administer any marketing authorisation process that it 
maintains for medical devices in a timely, reasonable, objective, transparent and 
impartial manner, and identify and manage any conflicts of interest in order to 
mitigate any associated risks. 
 
(a) 
Each Party shall provide an applicant that requests marketing 
authorisation for a medical device with its determination within a 
reasonable period of time.  The Parties recognise that the 
reasonable period of time required to make a marketing 
authorisation determination may be affected by factors such as the 
novelty of a device or regulatory implications that may arise. 
 
(b) 
If a Party determines that a marketing authorisation application for 
a medical device under review in its jurisdiction has deficiencies 
that have led or will lead to a decision not to authorise its 
marketing, that Party shall inform the applicant that requests 
marketing authorisation and provide reasons why the application is 
deficient. 
 
(c) 
If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a medical device, 
the Party shall ensure that any marketing authorisation 
determination is subject to an appeal or review process that may be 
invoked at the request of the applicant.  For greater certainty, the 
Party may maintain an appeal or review process that is either 
internal to the regulatory body responsible for the marketing 
authorisation determination, such as a dispute resolution or review 
process, or external to the regulatory body. 
 
(d) 
If a Party requires periodic re-authorisation for a medical device 
that has previously received marketing authorisation from the 
Party, the Party shall allow the medical device to remain on its 
market under the conditions of the previous marketing 
authorisation pending a decision on the periodic re-authorisation, 
unless a Party identifies a significant health or safety concern. 
 
14. 
When developing regulatory requirements for medical devices, a Party 
shall consider its available resources and technical capacity in order to minimise 
the implementation of requirements that could: 
 
(a) 
inhibit the effectiveness of procedures for ensuring the safety, 
efficacy or manufacturing quality of medical devices; or  
 
(b) 
lead to substantial delays in marketing authorisation regarding 
medical devices for sale on that Party’s market. 
 
15. 
No Party shall require that a medical device receive a marketing 
authorisation from a regulatory authority in the country of manufacture as a 
8-35 
condition for the medical device to receive marketing authorisation from that 
Party. 
 
16. 
For greater certainty, a Party may accept a prior marketing authorisation 
that is issued by another regulatory authority as evidence that a medical device 
may meet its own requirements.  If there are regulatory resource limitations, a 
Party may require a marketing authorisation from one of a number of reference 
countries established and made public by that Party as a condition for the medical 
device’s marketing authorisation from that Party. 
 
17. 
If a Party requires a manufacturer or supplier of a medical device to 
indicate information on the product’s label, the Party shall permit the 
manufacturer or supplier to indicate the required information by relabelling the 
product or by using supplementary labelling of the device in accordance with the 
Party’s domestic requirements after importation but prior to offering the device 
for sale or supply in the Party’s territory. 
 
 
8-36 
 
 
ANNEX 8-F 
 
PROPRIETARY FORMULAS FOR PREPACKAGED FOODS AND FOOD 
ADDITIVES 
 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of 
technical regulations and standards of central government bodies that are related 
to prepackaged foods and food additives.  This Annex shall not apply to technical 
specifications prepared by a governmental entity for its production or 
consumption requirements or sanitary and phytosanitary measures. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the terms “food,” “food additive” and 
“prepackaged” have the same meanings as set out in the Codex General Standard 
for the Labelling of Pre-Packaged Food (CODEX STAN 1-1985) and the Codex 
General Standard for the Labelling of Food Additives When Sold as Such 
(CODEX STAN 107-1981), as may be amended. 
 
3. 
When gathering information relating to proprietary formulas in the 
preparation, adoption and application of technical regulations and standards, each 
Party shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that its information requirements are limited to what is 
necessary to achieve its legitimate objective; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the confidentiality of information about products 
originating in the territory of another Party arising from, or 
supplied in connection with, the preparation, adoption, and 
application of technical regulations and standards, is respected in 
the same way as for domestic products and in a manner that 
protects legitimate commercial interests. 
 
If a Party gathers confidential information relating to proprietary formulas, it may 
use that information in the course of administrative and judicial proceedings in 
accordance with its law, provided that the Party has procedures to maintain the 
confidentiality of the information in the course of those proceedings. 
 
4. 
Nothing in paragraph 3 shall prevent a Party from requiring ingredients to 
be listed on labels consistent with CODEX STAN 1-1985 and CODEX STAN 
107-1981, as may be amended, except when those standards would be an 
ineffective or inappropriate means for the fulfilment of a legitimate objective. 
 
 
8-37 
 
 
ANNEX 8-G 
 
ORGANIC PRODUCTS 
 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to a Party if that Party is developing or maintains 
technical regulations, standards or conformity assessment procedures that relate to 
the production, processing or labelling of products as organic for sale or 
distribution within its territory. 
 
2. 
Each Party is encouraged to take steps to: 
 
(a) 
exchange information on matters that relate to organic production, 
certification of organic products, and related control systems; and 
 
(b) 
cooperate with other Parties to develop, improve and strengthen 
international guidelines, standards and recommendations that relate 
to trade in organic products. 
 
3. 
If a Party maintains a requirement that relates to the production, 
processing or labelling of products as organic, it shall enforce that requirement. 
 
4. 
A Party is encouraged to consider, as expeditiously as possible, a request 
from another Party for recognition or equivalence of a technical regulations, 
standards or conformity assessment procedures that relates to the production, 
processing, or labelling of products of another Party as organic.  Each Party is 
encouraged to accept as equivalent or recognise the technical regulations, 
standards or conformity assessment procedures that relate to the production, 
processing or labelling of products of that other Party as organic, if the Party is 
satisfied that the technical regulations, standards or conformity assessment 
procedures of that other Party adequately fulfils the objectives of the Party’s 
technical regulations, standards or conformity assessment procedures.  If a Party 
does not accept as equivalent or recognise the technical regulations, standards or 
conformity assessment procedures that relate to the production, processing, or 
labelling of products of that other Party as organic, it shall, on request of that 
other Party, explain its reasons. 
 
5. 
Each Party is encouraged to participate in technical exchanges to support 
improvement and greater alignment of technical regulations, standards or 
conformity assessment procedures that relate to the production, processing or 
labelling of products as organic. 
8-38 
