 
 
Drafters’ Note on Interpretation of “In Like Circumstances” Under  
Article 9.4 (National Treatment) and Article 9.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) 
 
1.  The  TPP  Investment  Negotiating  Group  and  the  Chief  Negotiators  discussed  the 
interpretation of “in like circumstances” under Article 9.4 (National Treatment) and Article 9.5 
(Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) and confirmed the shared intent of the Parties, as reflected in 
the text of these articles and the relevant footnote, to ensure that tribunals follow the existing 
approach set out below. 
 
2.  When  a  claimant  challenges  a  measure  as  inconsistent  with  Article  9.4  (National 
Treatment) or Article 9.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), the claimant bears the burden to 
prove that the respondent failed to accord to the claimant or the claimant’s covered investment 
treatment no less favourable than it accords, in like circumstances, (a) to its own investors, or 
their investments, in its territory (Article 9.4), or (b) to investors of any other Party or of any 
non-Party, or their investments, in its territory (Article 9.5).  Articles 9.4 and 9.5 do not prohibit 
all  measures  that result  in  differential treatment.   Rather,  they  seek  to ensure  that  foreign 
investors or their investments are not treated less favourably on the basis of their nationality. 
 
3.  The phrase “in like circumstances” ensures that comparisons are made only with respect 
to investors or investments on the basis of relevant characteristics.  This is a fact-specific inquiry 
requiring consideration of the totality of the circumstances, as reflected in paragraphs 4 and 5.  
Such circumstances include not only competition in the relevant business or economic sectors, 
but also such circumstances as the applicable legal and regulatory frameworks and whether the 
differential treatment is based on legitimate public welfare objectives.  Accordingly, the Parties 
agreed to include a new footnote in the text: “For greater certainty, whether treatment is accorded 
in ‘like circumstances’ depends on the totality of the circumstances, including whether the 
relevant treatment distinguishes between investors or investments on the basis of legitimate 
public welfare objectives.” 
 
4.  In considering  the  phrase  “in  like  circumstances”, NAFTA  tribunals  have  held  that 
investors  or  investments  that  are  “in  like  circumstances”  based  on  the  totality  of  the 
circumstances have been discriminated against based on their nationality.  See, e.g., Archer 
Daniels Midland, et al, v. United Mexican States, ICSID Case No. ARB(AF)/04/05, Award, (21 
November 2007), para. 197, (finding a breach of the national treatment obligation after taking 
into account “all ‘circumstances’ in which the treatment was accorded . . . in order to identify the 
appropriate comparator”).   
 
5.  NAFTA  tribunals  have  also  accepted  distinctions  in  treatment  between  investors  or 
investments that are plausibly connected to legitimate public welfare objectives, and have given 
important weight to whether investors or investments are subject to like legal requirements.  See, 
e.g., Grand River Enterprises Six Nations Ltd., et al. v. United States of America, UNCITRAL, 
Award (12 January 2011), at paras. 166-167  (“NAFTA tribunals have given significant weight 
to the legal regimes  applicable to particular entities in assessing whether they are in ‘like 
circumstances’  under  Articles  1102  [National  Treatment]  or  1103  [Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment]….  The reasoning of these cases shows the identity of the legal regime(s) applicable 
 
  
to a claimant and its purported comparators to be a compelling factor in assessing whether like is 
indeed being compared to like for purposes of Articles 1102 and 1103.”); GAMI Investments Inc. 
v. United Mexican States, UNCITRAL, Award (15 November 2004), at paras. 111-115 (holding 
that  foreign  investor  was  not  “in  like  circumstances”  with  domestic  investors  because  the 
difference in treatment was “plausibly connected with a legitimate goal of policy . . . and was 
applied neither in a discriminatory manner nor as a disguised barrier to equal opportunity”); 
Pope & Talbot Inc. v. Canada, UNCITRAL, Award on the Merits of Phase 2 (10 April 2001), at 
paras. 78-79  (the  tribunal’s  assessment  included  whether  the  difference  in  treatment  had  a 
“reasonable nexus to rational government policies” and was not based on nationality). 
 
 
 
 