ANNEX 18A: CO-OPERATION 
 
 
SECTION 1 : TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION 
 
1.  The  co-operation  between  the  Korea  Trade-Investment  Promotion  Agency 
(“KOTRA”) and the International Enterprise Singapore Board ( “IE Singapore”), is to be 
conducted  pursuant  to  Article  18.6  and  the  arrangement  between  KOTRA  and  IE 
Singapore.  Such co-operation between KOTRA and IE Singapore shall include the 
following: 
 
(a)  joint organisation of industry specific business missions and activities which 
are focused on mutually agreed high growth sectors, including but not limited 
to,  the  info-communications  technology,  electronics,  automotive,  food  & 
beverage and the logistics sectors; 
(b)  electronically linking the online business matching databases of the Parties  to 
bring together companies keen on establishing business ties with each other; 
(c)  facilitation of Korean enterprises to explore new markets in the region through 
Singapore and business collaboration with Singaporean companies by setting 
up a Korean Business Support Centre in Singapore, and subject to there being 
sufficient demand  and  interest  by  Singaporean  companies, Singapore will 
establish a Business Center in Korea; and 
(d)  using all reasonable efforts to encourage each Party’s companies to participate 
in exhibitions organised by the other Party, in particular if the exhibitions 
pertain to sectors which the Party is actively promoting in its country.  
 
2.   The Parties shall, where appropriate, facilitate such co-operation between KOTRA 
and IE Singapore. 
 
3.   The Parties shall, where  appropriate, facilitate  co-operation  between the Korea 
Export Insurance Corporation (“KEIC”) and Export Credit Insurance Corporation of 
Singapore (“ECICS”) in the areas including, but not limited to, export credit insurance. 
 
 
SECTION 2 : BROADCASTING CO-OPERATION 
 
1.  The co-operation between the Korean Broadcasting Commission(“KBC”) and the 
Media Development Authority of Singapore (“MDA”), hereinafter referred to as “the 
Sides”, is to be conducted pursuant to Article 18.8 and an arrangement between KBC and 
MDA. 
 
2.  On the condition that the co-operation comes within the areas of competence of both 
Sides, the Sides are determined to focus on co-operation, which shall include, but are not 
limited to the following areas:  
 
(a)  exchanges of views and information on broadcast policy issues, such as 
digital broadcasting and content regulation; 
(b)  co-operation in the development of broadcast contents such as exchanging 
views and information on frameworks to promote private sector activities, 
learning from each other’s experiences in digital broadcast contents, and co-  2 
producing television programmes; 
(c)  subject to the laws and regulations governing the Parties’ broadcast sectors,  
facilitation of exchanges among broadcasters to promote co-operation, for 
example, with regards to news and current affairs programmes; 
(d)  promotion of exchanges aimed at the education and training of broadcast 
executives; 
(e)  facilitation  of  industry  co-operation  in  areas  such  as  co-production  of 
television, or digital media and research and development of cutting-edge 
broadcast technologies; 
(f)  support in marketing the Parties’ broadcast contents globally, and promoting 
the exhibit of the Parties’ television programmes through platforms such as 
the  Broadcast  World  Wide  in  Korea  and  the  Asia  Media  Festival  in 
Singapore;  
(g)  co-ordination of visits, including attendance at broadcast-related event; and 
(h)  encouraging the re-transmission of Korean television channels in Singapore 
and vice versa.  
 
3.  Broadcasting co-operation between the Parties may take the following forms under 
the condition that such scope of co-operation comes within the areas of competence of 
both Sides: 
 
(a)  the  exchange  of  views  and  information  through  established  channels  of 
communication; 
(b)  broadcast-related visits; 
(c)  the encouragement of alliances between industrial organisations; and 
(d)  other forms of co-operation as may be agreed in writing by the Parties. 
 
 
SECTION 3: PROGRAMME FOR THE EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 
 
1.  Pursuant to Article 18.10, the Parties shall conduct a programme for the exchange of 
their officials ( “the Programme”) with a view to enhancing mutual understanding of their 
policies. 
 
2.  The Programme shall be conducted in accordance with the following: 
 
(a)  a government agency of a Party (“the Sending Agency”) shall select its 
official to participate in the Programme ( “the Official”), and shall notify, 
through the diplomatic channel, that it intends to send the Official to its 
counterpart agency of the other Party ( “the Host Agency”); 
(b)  the Host Agency shall, through the diplomatic channel, indicate its position 
regarding the participation of the Official in the Programme.  The Sending 
Agency and the Host Agency shall decide by mutual consent whether the 
Official participates in the Programme; 
(c)  the  Sending  Agency  and  the  Host  Agency  shall  consult,  through  the 
diplomatic channel, on necessary details for the participation of the Official 
in  the  Programme,  including  the  starting  date  and  duration,  taking  into 
account paragraphs 3 and 4; and 
(d)  subject to mutually agreed conditions, the Official shall participate in the 
Programme.   3 
 
3.  The sending Party shall take necessary measures to oblige the Official to comply 
with the following conditions: 
 
(a)  to comply with relevant laws and regulations of  the host Party, and not to act, 
without  legitimate  reasons,  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  relevant 
instructions by the Host Agency as to his or her activities therein; 
(b)  not to engage in intelligence-related activities on behalf of any Party when 
participating in the Programme; and 
(c)  not to reveal any information that the Host Agency advises the Official as 
classified. 
 
4.  Before sending the Official to the host Party, the Sending Agency shall send to the 
Host Agency through the diplomatic channel, a document signed by the Official, stating 
the Official’s consent to comply with the conditions set out in  (a), (b) and (c) of 
paragraph 3.  Non-compliance with the above conditions may be grounds for termination 
of the participation of the Official in the Programme. 
 
5.  The host Party is not responsible for salaries and benefits for the Official and any 
other necessary expenditure of the Official, including travel expenses and living costs. 
 
6.  The Host Agency shall make best efforts to ensure appropriate placement for the 
Official in the Host Agency consistent with the same subject matter that the Official is 
concerned with in the Sending Agency, and to place him or her in an office environment 
with colleagues of the Host Agency, taking into account such factors as the Official’s 
language ability, interest, expertise and  background knowledge,  as well  as the Host 
Agency’s requirement to maintain confidentiality of certain information. 
 
7.  The host Party shall grant the Official appropriate visas or working permits, where 
necessary, so that the Programme will be fulfilled as expeditiously and conveniently as 
possible. 
 
8.  The Parties shall evaluate the implementation of the Programme and this Annex as 
appropriate and necessary. 
 
9.  A Party shall consult, as necessary, with the other Party in respect of any matter that 
may arise from, or in connection with, the implementation of this Annex. 
 
 
SECTION 4 : CO-OPERATION IN FILM PRODUCTION 
 
1.  The co-operation between the Korean Film Commission (“KOFIC”) and the Media 
Development Authority of Singapore (“MDA”), shall be conducted pursuant to Article 
18.13 and an arrangement to be entered into between them.  Such co-operation between 
KOFIC and MDA shall include: 
 
(a)  encouraging and facilitating the co-production of films by producers from 
each Party's film industry; 
(b)  supporting the distribution of co-produced films in each Party's territory;   4 
(c)  encouraging and facilitating training and attachment opportunities for each 
Party’s  media  students,  teachers  and  professionals  in  the  other  Party’s 
territory; and 
(d)  encouraging and facilitating opportunities to showcase films of one Party 
during film festivals held in the other Party’s territory and opportunities for 
cultural exchanges during such festivals. 
 