ANNEX 20A :  MODEL RULES OF PROCEDURE 
 
 
Application 
 
1.  These Rules are established under Article 20.9 and shall apply to dispute settlement 
proceedings under Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) unless the Parties otherwise agree.  
 
Definitions 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Annex:  
 
 
complaining Party means a Party that requests the establishment of a panel under Article 
20.6;  
 
arbitral panel means an arbitral panel established under Article 20.7; and 
 
 
3.  Any reference made in these Rules to an Article, is a reference to the appropriate 
Article in Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) . 
 
 
Terms of Reference for Panels 
 
4.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree within twenty (20) days from the date of receipt 
of the request for the establishment of a panel, the terms of reference shall be: 
 
"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of this Agreement, the matter referred 
to in the request for the establishment of an arbitral panel, pursuant to Article 20.6, to 
make  findings  of  law  and/or  fact  together  with  the  reasons  thereof  as  well  as 
recommendations, if any, on the means to resolve the dispute, and deliver the written 
reports referred to in Articles 20.11 and 20.12."  
 
5.   The Parties shall promptly deliver the agreed terms of reference to the panel, upon 
the designation of the last member of the panel. 
 
6.  If the complaining Party argues that a matter has nullified or impaired benefits, the 
terms of reference shall so indicate.  
 
Written Submissions and Other Documents 
 
7.  Each Party shall deliver no less than four copies of its written submission to the 
panel and a copy to the other Party. 
 
8.  A  complaining  Party  shall  deliver  its  initial  written  submission  to  the  Party 
complained against no later than ten (10) days after the date on which the last panelist is 
appointed.  The Party complained against shall deliver its written submission to the 
complaining Party no later than twenty (20) days upon receipt of the initial written   2 
submission of the complaining Party.  
 
9.  In respect of a request, notice or other document(s) related to the panel proceedings 
that  is  not  covered  by  paragraphs  7  or  8,  each  Party  shall  deliver  copies  of  the 
document(s)  to  the  other  Party  by  facsimile,  email  or  other  means  of  electronic 
transmission.  
 
10.  A Party may at any time correct minor errors of a clerical nature in any request, 
notice, written submission or other document(s) related to the panel proceedings by 
delivering a new document clearly indicating the changes.  
 
 
Operation of Panels 
 
11.  The chair of the panel shall preside at all of its meetings. A panel may delegate to 
the chair authority to make administrative and procedural decisions.  
 
12.  Except as otherwise provided in these Rules, the panel may conduct its business by 
any means, including by telephone, facsimile transmission and computer links.  
 
13.  Only members of the panel may take part in the deliberations of the panel, but the 
panel may in consultation with the Parties employ such number of assistants, interpreters 
or translators, or court reporters (designated note takers) as may be required for the 
proceedings and permit them to be present during such deliberations. The members of the 
panel and the persons employed by the panel shall maintain the confidentiality of the 
panel's proceedings unless such information is already made available to the public. 
 
14.  Where a procedural question arises that is not addressed by these Rules, a panel may 
adopt an appropriate procedure that is consistent with this Agreement.  
 
15.  The time-period applicable to the panel proceedings shall be suspended for a period 
that begins on the date on which any member of the panel becomes unable to act and ends 
on the date on which the successor is appointed. 
 
16.  A panel may, in consultation with the Parties, modify any time-period applicable in 
the panel proceedings and make other procedural or administrative adjustments as may be 
required in the proceedings. 
 
Hearings 
 
17.  The chair of the panel shall fix the date and time of the hearing in consultation with 
the Parties and the other members of the panel, and then notify the Parties in writing of 
the date, time and location of the hearing.  
 
18.  The venue for the proceedings of the panel shall be decided by mutual agreement 
between the Parties. If there is no agreement, the venue shall alternate between the 
territories of the Parties with the venue of the first sitting to be in the territory of the 
complaining Party.  
 
19.  The  hearing  shall  be  conducted  by  the  panel  in  a  manner  ensuring  that  the   3 
complaining  Party  and  the  Party  complained  against  are  afforded  equal  time  for 
arguments, replies and counter-replies.  
 
Decisions of the Panel 
 
20.  The panel shall take its decisions by consensus; provided that where a panel is 
unable to reach consensus it may take its decisions by majority vote. 
 
Availability of Information 
 
21.  The Parties shall maintain the confidentiality of the panel's hearings, deliberations 
and initial report, and all written submissions to, and communications with, the panel, in 
accordance with the following procedures: 
 
(a)   a Party may make available to the public at any time its own written 
submissions; 
(b)   to the extent it considers strictly necessary to protect personal privacy or 
legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or private, 
or to address essential confidentiality concerns, a Party may designate 
specific information included in its written submissions, or that it has 
presented in the panel hearing, for confidential treatment; 
(c)   a Party shall treat as confidential any information submitted by the other 
Party  to  the  panel  that the  latter  Party  has  designated  as confidential 
pursuant to subparagraph (b); and 
(d)   each Party shall take such reasonable steps as are necessary to ensure that 
its experts, interpreters, translators, court reporters (designated note takers) 
and  other  individuals  involved  in  the  panel  proceedings  maintain  the 
confidentiality of the panel proceedings. 
 
 
Remuneration and Payment of Expenses 
 
22.   The panel shall keep a record and render a final account of all general expenses 
incurred in connection with the proceedings, including those paid to their assistants, court 
reporters (designated note takers) or other individuals that it retains in a panel proceeding 
in consultation with the Parties.  
 