 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 2 
NEW CHAPTER 5 (CUSTOMS PROCEDURES AND TRADE FACILITATION) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
  
CHAPTER 5 
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES AND TRADE FACILITATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  customs administration means: 
 
(i)  in  relation  to  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  the  General 
Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China; and 
(ii)   in relation to the Republic of Singapore, the Singapore Customs; 
 
(b)  customs law means the statutory and regulatory provisions relating to 
the  importation,  exportation,  movement  or  storage  of  goods,  the 
administration and enforcement of which are specifically charged to the 
customs administration of a Party, and any regulations made by the 
customs administration under its statutory powers; 
 
(c)  customs procedures means the treatment applied by the customs 
administration of each Party to goods and the means of transport, which 
are subject to that Party’s customs law;  
 
(d)  Customs  Valuation  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on 
Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and 
Trade 1994, which is part of the WTO Agreement. and; 
 
(e)  means  of  transport means  various  types of  vessels,  vehicles  and 
aircrafts which enter or leave the territory carrying persons and/or goods.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a)   ensure predictability, consistency and transparency in the application of 
the customs laws of the Parties;  
 
(b)   promote efficient, economical administration of customs procedures, 
and the expeditious clearance of goods; 
 
(c)   simplify  and  promote  harmonisation  of  customs  procedures  of  the 
Parties; and 
 
(d)   promote  cooperation  between  the  customs  administrations  of  the 
Parties. 
20 
  
 
ARTICLE 3 
Scope 
 
1.    This  Chapter  shall  apply  to  customs  procedures  applied  to  goods  traded 
between the Parties and to the movement of means of transport between the Parties. 
 
2.   This Chapter shall apply in accordance with the Parties’ respective international 
obligations  and  domestic  laws  and  regulations,  and  within  the  competence  and 
available resources of their respective customs administrations. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Facilitation 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  customs  procedures  and  practices  are 
predictable, consistent, transparent and trade facilitating while maintaining appropriate 
customs controls.  
 
2.   Each Party shall use efficient customs procedures with the aim to reduce costs 
and unnecessary delays in trade between both Parties, based, as appropriate, on 
international  standards,  in  particular,  trade-related  instruments,  standards  and 
recommended practices of the World Customs Organisation, to which that Party is a 
contracting Party.  
 
3.   The customs administration of each Party shall periodically review its customs 
procedures  with  a  view  to  exploring  options  for  their  simplification  and  the 
enhancement of mutually beneficial arrangements to facilitate international trade. 
 
4.   Each  Party  shall  limit  controls,  formalities  and  the  number  of  documents 
required in the context of trade in goods between the Parties to those necessary to 
ensure compliance with legal requirements.  
 
5.   Each Party shall administer, in a uniform, impartial and reasonable manner, its 
customs  law  relevant  to  trade  between  the  Parties,  and  endeavour  to  ensure 
consistency across nationwide implementation of its customs law among its regional 
customs offices. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Use of Automated Systems 
 
1.   The  customs  administrations  shall  use  information  technology  to  support 
customs operations, including sharing of best practices for the purposes of improving 
their customs procedures, where it is cost effective and efficient, particularly in the 
paperless trading context taking into account development in this area within the World 
Customs Organization (the “WCO”).  
 
21 
 2.   In using information technology to support customs operations, the customs 
administration of each Party shall take into account: 
 
(a)   their available infrastructure and capabilities; and  
 
(b)   the relevant standards such as the WCO Data Model and best practices 
recommended by the WCO. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Single Window 
 
1.    Each Party shall establish or maintain a single window, enabling traders to 
submit documentation and/or data requirements for importation, exportation or transit 
of goods through a single entry point to the participating authorities or agencies. After 
the examination by the participating authorities or agencies of the documentation 
and/or data, the results shall be notified to the applicants through the single window in 
a timely manner. 
 
2.   In cases where documentation and/or data requirements have already been 
received  through  the  single  window,  the  same  documentation  and/or  data 
requirements shall not be requested by participating authorities or agencies except in 
urgent circumstances and other limited exceptions which are made public. 
 
3.    Each  Party  shall,  to  the  extent  possible  and  practicable,  use  information 
technology to support its single window. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Customs Valuation 
 
The  Parties  shall  apply  Article  VII  of  GATT  1994  and  the  Customs  Valuation 
Agreement to goods traded between them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Tariff Classification 
 
The Parties shall apply the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity 
Description and Coding System to goods traded between them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Publication and Enquiry Points 
 
22 
 1.   Each Party shall publish, including on the Internet, its laws, regulations, and 
where applicable, administrative rules or procedures, of general application, relevant 
to trade in goods between the Parties. 
 
2.   Each Party shall designate and maintain one or more enquiry points to address 
enquiries from interested persons pertaining to customs matters, and shall make 
available on the Internet information concerning the procedures for making such 
inquiries.  
 
3.   For greater certainty, nothing in this Article or in any part of this Agreement shall 
require any Party to publish law enforcement procedures and internal operational 
guidelines  including  those  related  to  conducting  risk  analysis  and  targeting 
methodology. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Risk Management 
 
1.   The customs administration of each Party shall, based on risk management, 
determine which persons, goods or means of transport are to be examined and the 
extent of such examination. 
 
2.   The Parties shall adopt a risk management approach in determining the risk 
profile of goods to facilitate the clearance of low-risk consignments, while focusing its 
control measures on high-risk goods. 
 
3.  The Parties shall exchange best practices on risk management techniques 
used for customs purposes. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Advance Rulings 
 
1.   Each Party shall issue an advance ruling, prior to the importation of a good into 
its  territory,  at  the  written  request  containing  all  necessary  information,  on  an 
application  of  the  exporter,  importer  or  any  person  with  a  justifiable  cause  or a 
representative thereof1, with respect to: 
 
(a)   origin of goods; 
(b)   tariff classification of a product; and 
(c)   the appropriate method or criteria, and the application thereof, to be used 
for determining the customs value under a particular set of facts, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement. 
 
2.   The importing Party shall issue an advance ruling within sixty (60) days on 
receipt of all necessary information. 
 
                                                           
1 An applicant for an advance ruling from China shall be registered with China Customs. 
23 
 3.   The customs administration of each Party shall establish a validity period for an 
advance ruling of three (3) years from the date of its issuance. 
 
4.   The importing Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling: 
 
(a)  if the advance ruling was based on an error of fact; 
(b)  if there is a change in the material facts or circumstances on which the 
advance ruling was based; 
(c)  to conform with a change in its domestic laws, a judicial decision or a 
modification of this Chapter; or 
(d)   if  incorrect  information  was  provided  or  relevant  information  was 
withheld. 
 
5.   Each Party shall provide that any modification or revocation of an advance 
ruling shall be effective on the date on which the modification or revocation is issued, 
or  on  such  later  date  as  may  be  specified  therein,  and  shall not  be  applied  to 
importations of a good that have occurred prior to that date, unless the person to whom 
the  advance  ruling  was  issued  has  not  acted  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and 
conditions. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
Penalties 
 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures that provide for the imposition of civil, 
criminal or administrative penalties where appropriate, for violations of its laws and 
regulations relating to this Chapter in accordance with its domestic legislation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Review and Appeal 
 
1.   Each Party shall, in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations, provide 
that  the  importer,  exporter  or  any  other  person  affected  by  its  administrative 
determinations or decisions on a customs matter, have access to:  
 
(a)   a  level  of  administrative  review 2  by  its  customs  administration 
independent of the official or office responsible for the administrative 
determinations or decisions under review; and 
 
(b)   judicial appeal or review of the determinations or decisions, subject to its 
laws and regulations. 
 
2.   The decision on review and/or appeal shall be given to the applicant and/or 
appellant and, subject to the Party’s domestic laws and regulations the reasons for 
such decision shall be provided in writing. 
 
                                                           
2  For Singapore, the level of administrative review may include the Ministry supervising the customs 
administration. 
24 
  
ARTICLE 14 
Pre-Arrival Processing 
 
1.   Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures allowing for the submission of 
import documentation and other required information in order to begin processing prior 
to the arrival of goods with a view to expediting the release of goods upon arrival. 
 
2.   Each Party shall, as appropriate, provide for advance lodging of documents in 
electronic format for pre-arrival processing of such documents. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
Release of Goods 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall adopt  or  maintain  simplified  customs  procedures  for  the 
efficient release of goods in order to facilitate trade between the Parties. For greater 
certainty, this paragraph shall not require a Party to release a good if its requirements 
for release have not been met.  
 
2.   In accordance with paragraph 1, each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures 
that: 
 
(a)   provide for the release of goods within a period of time no greater than 
that required to ensure compliance with its customs law, and to the 
extent possible, within forty-eight (48) hours of goods’ arrival, provided 
all necessary regulatory and examination requirements have been met; 
and 
  
(b)   allow importers who have complied with that Party’s procedures relating 
to the determination of value and payment of duty to withdraw goods 
from customs, provided that all necessary regulatory and examination 
requirements have been met. As a condition for such release, a Party 
may require an importer to provide a guarantee, when such guarantee 
is required to ensure that obligations arising from the entry of the goods 
will be fulfilled. A Party may require a guarantee in accordance with its 
domestic laws and regulations that does not exceed the amount the 
Party requires to ensure payment of customs duties, taxes, fees and 
charges ultimately due for the goods covered by the guarantee. 
 
3.  If any goods are selected for further examination, such an examination shall be 
limited to what is necessary and shall be completed without undue delay. 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Express Shipments 
 
25 
 Each Party shall adopt or maintain separate and expedited customs procedures for 
express shipments while maintaining appropriate control and customs selection. Such 
procedures shall:  
 
(a)   permit, as a condition for release, the submission of a single document 
in the form that the Party considers appropriate, such as a manifest or a 
declaration, covering all of the goods in an express shipment, through, if 
possible, electronic means; 
 
(b)   minimise, to the extent possible, the documentation required for the 
release of express shipments; and 
 
(c)  allow express shipments to be released under normal circumstances as 
rapidly as possible after goods’ arrival, provided all necessary customs 
documentation required for release have been submitted, and when 
possible within six (6) hours. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17 
Post-Clearance Audit 
 
1.   With a view to expediting the release of goods and enhancing customs control, 
each Party shall adopt or maintain post clearance audit to ensure compliance with 
customs law and other related laws and regulations. 
 
2.   Each Party shall select a person or a consignment for post-clearance audit in a 
risk-based manner, which may include appropriate selectivity criteria. Each Party shall 
conduct post clearance audits in a transparent manner. Where the person is involved 
in the audit process and a conclusive result has been achieved, the Party shall, without 
delay, notify the person concerned of the result of the case, the rights and obligations 
it has, audit findings and the reasons for the result. 
 
3.   Parties shall, wherever practicable, use the result of post-clearance audit in 
applying  risk  management  and  in assessing  the  customs  compliance  records  of 
traders. 
 
 
ARTICLE 18 
Temporary Admission of Goods 
 
Each Party shall allow, as provided for in its laws and regulations, goods to be brought 
into its customs territory conditionally relieved, totally or partially, from payment of 
import duties and taxes if such goods are brought into its customs territory for a specific 
purpose,  are  intended  for  re-exportation  within  a  specific  period,  and  have  not 
undergone any change except normal depreciation and wastage due to the use made 
of them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Customs Cooperation 
26 
  
1.   Subject to its domestic laws and regulations, the customs administration of 
each Party may, as deemed appropriate, assist each other in relation to:  
 
(a)    the implementation and operation of this Chapter; and 
 
(b)    such other issues as the Parties mutually determine. 
 
2.   Each Party shall endeavour to provide the other Party with timely notice of any 
significant modification of its customs law or customs procedures that are likely to 
substantially affect the operation of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Consultation 
 
1.   The  customs  administration  of  each  Party  may  at  any  time  request 
consultations with the customs administration of the other Party, on any matter arising 
from the implementation or operation of this Chapter, where there are reasonable 
grounds provided by the requesting Party. Such consultations shall be conducted 
through the relevant contact points, and shall take place within sixty (60) days of the 
request, or any other possible time period that the Parties may mutually determine. 
 
2.   In  the  event  that  such  consultations  fail  to  resolve  any  such  matter,  the 
requesting Party may refer the matter to the Committee on Customs Procedures and 
Trade Facilitation for further consideration. 
 
3.   The customs administration of each Party shall designate one or more contact 
points for the purposes of this Chapter. Information on the contact points shall be 
provided to the other Party and any amendment of the said information shall be notified 
promptly. 
 
 
ARTICLE 21 
Committee on Customs Procedures and Trade Facilitation  
 
1.   With the view to the effective implementation and operation of this Chapter, a 
Committee on Customs Procedures and Trade Facilitation (Committee on CPTF) is 
hereby established, under the FTA Joint Committee. 
 
2.   The functions of the Committee on CPTF shall be as follows: 
 
(a)   ensure the proper function of this Chapter and resolve all issues arising 
from its application; 
 
(b)   review the interpretation and implementation of this Chapter, as well as 
revise this Chapter as appropriate; 
 
(c)   ensure  the  effective,  uniform  and  consistent  administration  of  this 
Chapter, and enhance the cooperation in this regard; 
27 
  
(d)   identify areas related to this Chapter to be improved for facilitating trade 
between the Parties; 
 
(e)   exchange information on customs strategic development of each Party 
to strengthen cooperation between the two Parties; and 
 
(f)   make recommendations and report to the FTA Joint Committee. 
 
3.   The  Committee  on  CPTF  shall  consist  of  representatives  from  customs 
administrations of both Parties. When both Parties deem necessary and appropriate, 
representatives from other relevant government agencies or relevant non-government 
organisations may be invited to the meetings of the Committee on CPTF. One or more 
contact points shall be designated for this purpose. 
 
4.   The Committee on CPTF shall meet at such venues and times as the Parties 
may mutually agree. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
28 
 