CHAPTER 5 
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 23 
Scope 
 
This Chapter is applicable to the extent permitted by the domestic laws of each 
Party  and  within  the competence  and  available  resources  of  their  respective 
customs administrations. 
 
 
ARTICLE 24 
General Provisions 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  that  their  bilateral  trade  may  be  facilitated  by 
simplifying customs procedures and having expeditious customs clearance of 
goods. 
 
2.  Customs procedures of both Parties shall, where possible, conform to the 
standards and recommended practices of the World Customs Organization. 
 
 
ARTICLE 25 
Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that its laws, regulations, guidelines, procedures 
and administrative rulings governing customs matters are promptly published, 
either on the Internet or in print form. 
 
2.  Each Party shall designate, establish and maintain one or more inquiry 
points  to  address  inquiries  from  interested  persons  pertaining  to  customs 
matters, and shall make available on the Internet information concerning the 
procedures for making such inquiries. 
 
3.  For  greater  certainty,  nothing  in  this  Article  or  in  any  part  of  this 
Agreement shall require any Party to publish law enforcement procedures and 
internal operational guidelines including those related to conducting risk analysis 
and targeting methodology. 
 
 
ARTICLE 26 
Risk Management 
 1.  The  Parties  shall  adopt  a  risk  management  approach  in  its  customs 
activities based on its identified risk of goods in order to facilitate the clearance of 
low-risk consignments, while focusing its inspection activities on high-risk goods. 
 
2.  The Parties shall exchange best practices on risk management techniques 
used for customs purposes. 
 
 
ARTICLE 27 
Certificate of Origin 
 
1.  For the purpose of obtaining preferential tariff treatment in the other Party, 
a Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the authorised body of the exporting 
Party. 
 
2.  Each Party shall inform the customs administration of the other Party of 
the names and addresses of the authorised bodies issuing the Certificate of 
Origin and shall provide specimen impressions of official seals used by such 
authorised bodies.  Any change in names, addresses or official seals shall be 
promptly notified to the other Party. 
 
3.  The  Certificate  of  Origin  shall  be  issued  before  or  at  the  time  of 
exportation whenever the goods to be exported can be considered originating in 
that Party subject to Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin).  The exporter or producer shall 
submit a written application for the Certificate of Origin together with appropriate 
supporting documents proving that the products to be exported qualify for the 
issuance of a Certificate of Origin. 
 
4.  The Certificate of Origin, based on the formats as set out in Annex 3 
(Formats of Certificates of Origin), shall be completed in the English language 
and  duly  signed  and  stamped,  covering  one  or  more  goods  under  one 
consignment.  A Certificate of Origin is applicable to a single importation of a 
good into the Party’s territory and shall remain valid for twelve (12) months from 
the date of issue. 
 
5.  In cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued before or at the 
time of exportation due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid causes, 
the Certificate of Origin may be issued retrospectively but not later than one (1) 
year  from  the  date  of  shipment,  bearing  the  words  "ISSUED 
RETROSPECTIVELY". 
 
6.  In cases of theft, loss or accidental destruction of a Certificate of Origin, 
the exporter or producer may, within validity of the original Certificate of Origin, 
make a written request to the authorised bodies of the exporting Party for issuing 
a certified copy, provided that the exporter or producer makes sure that the 
original copy previously issued has not been used.  The certified copy shall bear the words “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY of the original Certificate of Origin number 
___ dated ___”. 
 
 
ARTICLE 28 
Claims for Preferential Treatment 
 
1.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  each  Party’s  customs 
administration shall require an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a 
good to: 
 
(a)  make a written declaration before or at the time of importation, in 
accordance with its laws and regulations, that the good qualifies as 
an originating good; 
 
(b)  have a Certificate of Origin in his possession; 
 
(c)  submit,  if  required  by  the  importing  customs  administration,  the 
original Certificate of Origin and such other documentation relating 
to the importation of the goods; and 
 
(d)  promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any duties owed, 
where  the  importer  has  reason  to  believe  that  a  Certificate  of 
Origin, on which a declaration was based, contains information that 
is not correct. 
 
2.  A Party may deny preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement to an 
imported  good  if  the  importer  fails  to  comply  with  any  requirement  of  this 
Chapter. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide that: 
 
(a)  where the origin of the product is not in doubt, the discovery of 
minor  discrepancies  between  the  statements  made  in  the 
Certificate of Origin and those made in the documents submitted to 
the customs administration of the importing Party for the purpose of 
carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso 
facto invalidate the Certificate of Origin, if it does in fact correspond 
to the same products presented; and 
 
(b)  for multiple items declared under the same Certificate of Origin, a 
problem encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect or 
delay  the  granting  of  preferential  tariff  treatment  and  customs 
clearance of the remaining items listed in the Certificate of Origin. 
 4.  Where a Certificate of Origin is not provided at the time of importation of a 
good, the importing Party, upon the request of the importer, may impose the 
applied non-preferential import customs duty or payment of a deposit equivalent 
to the full duties on that good as requested.  In such a case, the importer will be 
entitled to a refund of any excess import customs duty or deposit paid if the 
payment refund claim is made within one (1) year from the date the good was 
imported, provided that the requirements in paragraph 1 are fulfilled. 
 
 
ARTICLE 29 
Verification of Origin 
 
1.  A  Certificate  of  Origin  is  the  basis  for  eligibility  of  preferential  tariff 
treatment  for  goods  imported  from  the  exporting  Party.    In  cases  where 
verification is required, the importing Party may conduct verification by means of: 
 
(a)  written requests for additional information from the importer; 
 
(b)  written  requests  for  additional  information  from  the  exporter  or 
producer in the territory of the exporting Party; 
 
(c)  requests that the competent authority of the exporting Party verify 
the origin of a good; or 
 
(d)  such  other  procedures  as  the  customs  administrations  of  the 
Parties may jointly decide. 
 
2.  A verification process under paragraph 1 shall only be initiated when there 
are reasonable grounds to doubt the accuracy or authenticity of the origin of the 
goods concerned, and when the customs duty is sufficiently material to warrant 
the request. 
 
3.  A verification request to the competent authority of the exporting Party 
shall specify the reasons, and any documents and information obtained justifying 
the verification activities shall be forwarded to the competent authority of the 
requested Party. 
 
4.  To the extent allowed by its domestic laws and practices, the competent 
authorities of the exporting Party shall fully co-operate in any action to verify 
eligibility. 
 
5.  The  Party  conducting  the  verification  shall,  through  its  competent 
authority, inform the customs administration of the other Party of the outcome of 
the verification conducted. 
 
 ARTICLE 30 
Waiver of Certificate of Origin 
 
Each Party shall provide that a Certificate of Origin shall not be required for: 
 
(a)  a commercial importation of a good whose value does not exceed 
US$600 or its equivalent amount in the Party's currency, or such 
higher amount as it may establish, except that it may require that 
the  invoice  accompanying  the  importation  include  a  statement 
certifying that the good qualifies as an originating good; or 
 
(b)  a  non-commercial  importation  of  a  good  whose  value  does  not 
exceed US$600 or its equivalent amount in the Party's currency, or 
such higher amount as it may establish, 
 
provided that the importation does not form part of a series of importations that 
may reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the 
purpose of avoiding the certification requirements. 
 
 
ARTICLE 31 
Record Keeping Requirement 
 
1.  Each Party shall require its producers, exporters and importers to retain 
origin documents for three (3) years. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  authorised  bodies  retain  copies  of 
Certificates  of  Origin  and other  documentary  evidence  of origin  for  three  (3) 
years. 
 
3.  The records to be maintained may include electronic records and shall be 
maintained in accordance with the domestic laws and practices of each Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 32 
Advance Rulings 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  issue  an  advance  ruling,  on  an  application  of  the 
exporter, importer or any person, that is submitted at least three (3) months 
before the date of importation of the goods that are the subject of the application.  
The importing Party shall issue its determination regarding the origin of the good 
within sixty (60) days of the date of an application for advance ruling, provided 
that all the origin requirements have been complied with.  An applicant for an 
advance ruling from China Customs shall be registered with China Customs. 
 2.  The  importing  Party  shall  apply  an  advance  ruling  issued  by  it  under 
paragraph 1.  The customs administration of each Party shall establish a validity 
period for an advance ruling of not less than two (2) years from the date of its 
issue or in accordance with its respective domestic laws. 
 
3.  The importing Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling: 
 
(a)  if the ruling was based on an error of fact; 
 
(b)  if there is a change in the material facts or circumstances on which 
the ruling was based; 
 
(c)  to conform with a modification of this Chapter; or 
 
(d)  to conform with a judicial decision or a change in its domestic laws. 
 
4.  Each Party shall provide that any modification or revocation of an advance 
ruling shall be effective on the date on which the modification or revocation is 
issued, or on such later date as may be specified therein, and shall not be 
applied to importations of a good that have occurred prior to that date, unless the 
person to whom the advance ruling was issued has not acted in accordance with 
its terms and conditions. 
 
 
ARTICLE 33 
Penalties 
 
Each  Party  shall  impose  punitive  measures  for  violations  of  its  laws  and 
regulations relating to this Chapter in accordance with its domestic legislation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 34 
Review and Appeal 
 
With  respect  to  determinations  relating  to  eligibility  for  preferential  treatment 
under this Agreement or advance rulings, each Party shall provide that importers 
in  its  territory  have  access  to  administrative  review1 and  judicial  review  in 
accordance with its domestic laws and regulations. 
 
 
ARTICLE 35 
Confidentiality 
 
                                            
1  For Singapore the level of administrative review may include the Ministry supervising the 
customs administration. 1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to furnish 
or allow access to confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede 
law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would 
prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or 
private. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  maintain,  in  accordance  with  its  domestic  laws,  the 
confidentiality  of  information  collected  pursuant  to  this  Chapter,  including 
information  obtained  from  the  verification  of  Certificates  of  Origin  and  shall 
protect  that  information  from  disclosure  that  could  prejudice  the  competitive 
position of the persons providing the information. 
 
3.  Pursuant to Article 31 (Record Keeping Requirement), any information 
communicated between the Parties concerned shall be treated as confidential 
and used for the validation of Certificates of Origin only. 
 
 
ARTICLE 36 
Third Party Invoicing 
 
The importing Party shall accept Certificates of Origin in cases where the sales 
invoice is issued either by a company located in a non-Party or by an exporter in 
the  exporting  Party  for  the  account  of  the  said  company,  provided  that  the 
product meets the requirements of Chapter 4 (Rules of Origin). 
 
 