CHAPTER 8 
TRADE IN SERVICES 
 
 
ARTICLE 59 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  commercial presence means any type of business or professional 
establishment, including through: 
 
(i)  the  constitution,  acquisition  or  maintenance  of  a  juridical 
person, or 
 
(ii)  the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative 
office, 
 
within the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service; 
 
(b)  direct taxes comprise all taxes on total income, on total capital or 
on elements of income or of capital, including taxes on gains from 
the alienation of property, taxes on estates, inheritances and gifts, 
and  taxes  on  the  total  amounts  of  wages  or  salaries  paid  by 
enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation; 
 
(c)  juridical  person  means  any  legal  entity  duly  constituted  or 
otherwise  organised  under  applicable  law,  whether  for  profit  or 
otherwise, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, 
including any corporation, branch, trust, partnership, joint venture, 
sole proprietorship or association; 
 
(d)  juridical person of the other Party means a juridical person which 
is either: 
 
(i)  constituted or otherwise organised under the law of the other 
Party, and is engaged in substantive business operations in 
the territory of the other Party; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial 
presence, owned or controlled by: 
 
(A)  natural persons of the other Party; or 
 
(B)  juridical persons of the other Party identified under 
sub-paragraph (d)(i);  
(e)  a juridical person is: 
 
(i)  owned by persons of a Party if more than 50% of the equity 
interest in it is beneficially owned by persons of that Party; 
 
(ii)  controlled by persons of a Party if such persons have the 
power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise to 
legally direct its actions; 
 
(iii)  affiliated  with  another  person  when  it  controls,  or  is 
controlled by, that other person; or when it and the other 
person are both controlled by the same person; 
 
(f)  measure means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a 
law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action, or 
any other form; 
 
(g)  measures by Parties means measures taken by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers 
delegated  by  central,  regional  or  local  governments  or 
authorities; 
 
(h)  measures  by  Parties  affecting  trade  in  services  include 
measures in respect of: 
 
(i)  the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
 
(ii)  the access to and use of, in connection with the supply of a 
service,  services  which  are  required  by  the  Parties  to be 
offered to the public generally; 
 
(iii)  the presence, including commercial presence, of persons of 
a Party for the supply of a service in the territory of the other 
Party; 
 
(i)  monopoly  supplier  of  a  service  means any  person,  public  or 
private, which in the relevant market of the territory of a Party is 
authorised or established formally or in effect by that Party as the 
sole supplier of that service; 
 
(j)  natural person of a Party is a national or a permanent resident of 
a Party under its laws.  Until such time as China enacts its law on treatment  of  permanent  residents  of  foreign  countries,  the 
obligations of each Party with respect to the permanent residents of 
the other Party shall be limited to the extent of its obligations under 
the GATS; 
 
(k)  person means either a natural person or a juridical person; 
 
(l)  qualification  procedures  means  administrative  procedures 
relating to the administration of qualification requirements; 
 
(m)  qualification  requirements  means  substantive  requirements 
which  a  service  supplier  is  required  to  fulfil  in  order  to  obtain 
certification or a license; 
 
(n)  sector of a service means, 
 
(i)  with reference to a specific commitment, one or more, or all, 
subsectors of that service, as specified in a Party’s Schedule 
in  Annex  5  (Schedules  of  Specific  Commitments  on 
Services); 
 
(ii)  otherwise, the whole of that service sector, including all of its 
subsectors; 
 
(o)  services  includes  any  service  in  any  sector  except  services 
supplied in the exercise of governmental authority; 
 
(p)  service  consumer  means  any  person  that  receives  or  uses  a 
service; 
 
(q)  service of the other Party means a service which is supplied: 
 
(i)  from or in the territory of the other Party, or in the case of 
maritime transport, by a vessel registered under the laws of 
the  other  Party,  or by  a  person of  the  other  Party  which 
supplies the service through the operation of a vessel and/or 
its use in whole or in part; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial 
presence or through the presence of natural persons, by a 
service supplier of the other Party; 
 
(r)  service  supplied  in  the  exercise  of  governmental  authority 
means any service which is supplied neither on a commercial basis 
nor in competition with one or more service suppliers; 
 (s)  service supplier means any person that supplies a service1; 
 
(t)  supply of a service includes the production, distribution, marketing, 
sale and delivery of a service; and 
 
(u)  trade in services is defined as the supply of a service: 
 
(i)  from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other 
Party (“cross-border” mode); 
 
(ii)  in the territory of a Party to the service consumer of the other 
Party (“consumption abroad” mode); 
 
(iii)  by  a  service  supplier  of  a  Party,  through  commercial 
presence  in  the  territory  of  the  other  Party  (“commercial 
presence” mode); or 
 
(iv)  by a service supplier of a Party, through presence of natural 
persons  of  a  Party  in  the  territory  of  the  other  Party 
(“presence of natural persons” mode). 
 
 
ARTICLE 60 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to measures by a Party affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority within 
the territory of each Party; or 
 
(b)  regulations  or  requirements  governing  the  procurement  by 
governmental  agencies  of  services  purchased  for  governmental 
purposes and not with a view to commercial resale or with a view to 
use in the supply of services for commercial sale. 
 
3.  This Chapter shall not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party or 
to any conditions attached to its receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or 
grants, except:  
                                            
1  Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other forms of 
commercial presence such as a branch or a representative office, the service supplier (ie, the 
juridical  person)  shall,  nonetheless,  through  such  presence  be  accorded  the  treatment 
provided for service suppliers under this Chapter.  Such treatment shall be extended to the 
presence through which the service is supplied and need not be extended to any other parts of 
the supplier located outside the territory where the service is supplied.  
(a)   as otherwise specified in this Agreement; or 
 
(b)   disciplines that may be developed under Article XV of the GATS as 
may  be  reviewed  with  a  view  to  their  incorporation  into  this 
Agreement. 
 
4.  This  Agreement,  including  its  dispute  settlement  procedures,  shall  not 
apply to measures affecting: 
 
(a)  traffic rights, however granted; or 
 
(b)  services directly related to the exercise of traffic rights, 
 
except as provided in paragraph 5. 
 
5.  This Chapter shall apply to measures affecting: 
 
(a)  aircraft repair and maintenance services; 
 
(b)  the selling and marketing of air transport services; and 
 
(c)  computer reservation system (“CRS”) services. 
 
 
ARTICLE 61 
Market Access 
 
1.  With respect to market access through the modes of supply identified in 
Article 59(u) (Definitions) a Party shall accord services and service suppliers of 
the other Party treatment no less favourable than that provided for under the 
terms, limitations and conditions agreed and specified in its Schedule.2 
 
2.  In  sectors  where  market  access  commitments  are  undertaken,  the 
measures which a Party shall not maintain or adopt either on the basis of a 
regional  subdivision  or  on  the  basis  of  its  entire  territory,  unless  otherwise 
specified in its Schedule, are defined as: 
 
                                            
2  If a Party undertakes a market access commitment in relation to the supply of a service 
through the mode of supply referred to in Article 59(u)(i) and if the cross-border movement of 
capital is an essential part of the service itself, that Party is thereby committed to allow such 
movement of capital.  If a Party undertakes a market access commitment in relation to the 
supply of a service through the mode of supply referred to in Article 59(u)(iii), it is thereby 
committed to allow related transfers of capital into its territory. (a)  limitations on the number of service suppliers whether in the form of 
numerical quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the 
requirements of an economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the 
form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs 
test; 
 
(c)  limitations on the total number of service operations or on the total 
quantity  of  service  output  expressed  in  terms  of  designated 
numerical  units  in  the  form  of  quotas  or  the  requirement  of  an 
economic needs test;3 
 
(d)  limitations  on  the  total  number  of  natural  persons  that  may  be 
employed in a particular service sector or that a service supplier 
may employ and who are necessary for, and directly related to, the 
supply of a specific service in the form of numerical quotas or the 
requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(e)  measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or 
joint venture through which a service supplier may supply a service; 
and 
 
(f)  limitations  on  the  participation  of  foreign  capital  in  terms  of 
maximum  percentage  limit  on  foreign  shareholding  or  the  total 
value of individual or aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
ARTICLE 62 
National Treatment 
 
1.  In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule, and subject to any conditions and 
qualifications set out therein, each Party shall accord to services and service 
suppliers of the other Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of 
services, treatment no less favourable than that it accords to its own like services 
and service suppliers4. 
 
2.  A  Party  may  meet  the  requirement  of  paragraph  1  by  according  to 
services  and  service  suppliers  of  the  other  Party,  either  formally  identical 
treatment or formally different treatment to that it accords to its own like services 
and service suppliers. 
                                            
3  Paragraph 2(c) of this Article does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the 
supply of services. 
4  Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require any Party to 
compensate  for  any  inherent  competitive  disadvantages  which  result  from  the  foreign 
character of the relevant services or service suppliers.  
3.  Formally identical or formally different treatment shall be considered to be 
less favourable if it modifies the conditions of competition in favour of services or 
service suppliers of the Party compared to like services or service suppliers of 
the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 63 
Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to measures affecting trade 
in services not subject to scheduling under Articles 61 (Market Access) and 62 
(National  Treatment)  including  those  regarding  qualifications,  standards  or 
licensing matters.  Such commitments shall be inscribed in a Party’s Schedule. 
 
 
ARTICLE 64 
Schedule of Specific Commitments 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  set  out  in  a  Schedule  the  specific  commitments  it 
undertakes under Articles 61 (Market Access), 62 (National Treatment) and 63 
(Additional Commitments).  With respect to sectors where such commitments are 
undertaken, each Schedule shall specify: 
 
(a)  the sectors in which such commitments are undertaken; 
 
(b)  terms, limitations and conditions on market access; 
 
(c)  conditions and qualifications on national treatment; 
 
(d)  undertakings relating to additional commitments; and 
 
(e)  where  appropriate  the  time-frame  for  implementation  of  such 
commitments. 
 
2.  Measures  inconsistent  with  both  Articles  61  (Market  Access)  and  62 
(National Treatment) shall be inscribed in both the columns relating to Articles 61 
(Market Access) and 62 (National Treatment). 
 
3.  The Parties’ Schedules of specific commitments shall be annexed to this 
Agreement as Annex 5 (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Services) and 
shall form an integral part thereof. 
 
4.  Upon  the  conclusion  of  the  second  package  of  services  commitments 
between ASEAN and China, pursuant to Article 23(2) of the Agreement on Trade 
in  Services  of  the  Framework  Agreement  on  Comprehensive  Economic  Co-operation between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the People’s 
Republic of China done on 14 January 2007, the commitments undertaken by 
each Party shall be incorporated into this Agreement and take effect between the 
Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 65 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.  In sectors where specific commitments are undertaken under Articles 61 
(Market Access), 62 (National Treatment), 63 (Additional Commitments) and 64 
(Schedule  of  Commitments),  each  Party  shall  ensure  that  all  measures  of 
general application affecting trade in services are administered in a reasonable, 
objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.  (a)  Each  Party  shall  maintain  or  institute  as  soon  as  practicable, 
judicial,  arbitral  or  administrative  tribunals  or  procedures  which 
provide,  at  the  request  of  an  affected  service  supplier,  for  the 
prompt  review  of,  and  where  justified, appropriate  remedies for, 
administrative decisions affecting trade in services.  Where such 
procedures are not independent of the agency entrusted with the 
administrative decision concerned, the Party shall ensure that the 
procedures in fact provide for an objective and impartial review. 
 
(b)  The  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (a)  shall  not  be  construed  to 
require a Party to institute such tribunals or procedures where this 
would be inconsistent with its constitutional structure or the nature 
of its legal system. 
 
3.  Where authorisation is required for the supply of a service on which a 
specific  commitment  under  this  Agreement  has  been  made,  the  competent 
authorities of each Party shall: 
 
(a)  in  the  case  of  an  incomplete  application,  at  the  request  of  the 
applicant, identify all the additional information that is required to 
complete  the  application  and  provide  the  opportunity  to  remedy 
deficiencies within a reasonable timeframe; 
 
(b)  at  the  request  of  the  applicant,  provide  without  undue  delay, 
information concerning the status of the application; and 
 
(c)  if an application is terminated or denied, to the maximum extent 
possible,  inform  the  applicant  in  writing  and  without  delay  the 
reasons for such action.  The applicant will have the possibility of 
resubmitting, at its discretion, a new application. 
 4.  With  the  objective  of  ensuring  that  measures  relating  to  qualification 
requirements and procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements do 
not constitute unnecessary barriers to trade in services, the Parties shall jointly 
review the results of the negotiations on disciplines on these measures, pursuant 
to Article VI.4 of the GATS, with a view to their incorporation into this Agreement.  
The Parties note that such disciplines aim to ensure that such requirements are, 
inter alia: 
 
(a)  based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence 
and the ability to supply the service; 
 
(b)  not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the 
service; and 
 
(c)  in the case of licensing procedures, not in themselves a restriction 
on the supply of the service. 
 
5.  (a)  In sectors in which a Party has undertaken specific commitments 
under  Articles  61  (Market  Access),  62  (National  Treatment),  63 
(Additional  Commitments)  and  64  (Schedule  of  Commitments) 
pending the incorporation of the disciplines referred to in paragraph 
4, that Party shall not apply licensing and qualification requirements 
and technical standards that nullify or impair its obligation under 
this Agreement in a manner which: 
 
(i)  does not comply with the criteria outlined in paragraphs 4(a), 
(b) or (c) of this Article; and 
 
(ii)  could not reasonably have been expected of that Party at the 
time the specific commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
(b)  In determining whether a Party is in conformity with the obligation 
under  paragraph  5(a),  account  shall  be  taken  of  international 
standards of relevant international organisations5 applied by that 
Party. 
 
6.  In sectors where specific commitments regarding professional services 
are undertaken, each Party shall provide for adequate procedures to verify the 
competence of professionals of the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 66 
Recognition 
 
                                            
5  Relevant international organisations refers to international bodies whose membership is 
open to the relevant bodies of both Parties to this Agreement. 1.  For the purposes of the fulfilment, in whole or in part, of its standards or 
criteria for the authorisation, licensing, or certification of service suppliers, and 
subject to the requirements of paragraph 3, a Party may recognise, or encourage 
its  relevant  competent  bodies  to  recognise,  the  education  or  experience 
obtained,  requirements  met  or  licences  or  certifications  granted  in  the  other 
Party.    Such  recognition,  which  may  be  achieved  through  harmonisation  or 
otherwise,  may  be  based  upon  an  agreement  or  arrangement  between  the 
Parties or their relevant competent bodies, or may be accorded autonomously. 
 
2.  A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type referred 
to in paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for 
the other Party to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or arrangement 
or to negotiate comparable ones with it.  Where a Party accords recognition 
autonomously,  it  shall  afford  adequate  opportunity  for  the  other  Party  to 
demonstrate  that education,  experience,  licences  or  certifications  obtained or 
requirements met in that other Party’s territory should be recognised. 
 
3.  A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner which would constitute a 
means of discrimination between countries in the application of its standards or 
criteria for the authorisation, licensing, or certification of service suppliers, or a 
disguised restriction on trade in services. 
 
ARTICLE 67 
Recognition Co-operation 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  ensure  that  their  relevant  competent  authorities 
commence negotiations on areas for mutual recognition of the equivalence of 
each Party’s: 
 
(a)  accounting work experience and qualifications; 
 
(b)  auditing work experience and qualifications; and 
 
(c)  accounting and auditing standards, 
 
as soon as possible. 
 
2.  The  Parties  shall  commence  negotiation  on  a  Mutual  Recognition 
Arrangement  (“MRA”)  for  qualifications  or  experience  obtained,  requirements 
met, or licenses or certifications for architects following the entry into force of this 
Agreement, with a view to reaching such an MRA as soon as possible, and 
exploring  the  possibilities  for  expanding  the  MRA  to  other  architectural  and 
engineering areas. 
 
 
ARTICLE 68 Joint Committee on Recognition Co-operation 
 
1.  For the purposes of effective implementation of Article 67 (Recognition 
Co-operation),  a  Joint  Committee  on  Recognition  Co-operation  (the 
“Committee”), including a working group on accounting and auditing, shall be 
established.  The functions of the Committee shall be: 
 
(a)  reviewing  and  discussing  the  issues  concerning  the  effective 
implementation of Article 67 (Recognition Co-operation); 
 
(b)  identifying and recommending areas for and ways of furthering co-
operation between the Parties; and 
 
(c)  discussing other issues relating to the implementation of Article 67 
(Recognition Co-operation). 
 
2.  The Committee, including the working group on accounting and auditing, 
shall meet on the request of either Party or the FTA Joint Committee established 
under Article 111 (Implementation and Review) at mutually acceptable time and 
venue. 
 
 
ARTICLE 69 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier of a service in its 
territory does not, in the supply of the monopoly service in the relevant market, 
act in a manner inconsistent with that Party's specific commitments. 
 
2.  Where a Party's monopoly supplier competes, either directly or through an 
affiliated company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of its monopoly 
rights and which is subject to that Party's specific commitments, the Party shall 
ensure that such a supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in its 
territory in a manner inconsistent with such commitments. 
 
3.  If a Party has reason to believe that a monopoly supplier of a service of 
the other Party is acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 1 or 2, it may 
request the other Party establishing, maintaining or authorising such supplier to 
provide specific information concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4.  This Article shall also apply to cases of exclusive service suppliers, where 
a Party, formally or in effect: 
 
(a)  authorises or establishes a small number of service suppliers; and 
 (b)  substantially  prevents  competition  among  those  suppliers  in  its 
territory. 
 
 
ARTICLE 70 
Business Practices 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that certain business practices of service suppliers, 
other  than  those  falling  under  Article  69  (Monopolies  and  Exclusive  Service 
Suppliers), may restrain competition and thereby restrict trade in services. 
 
2.  A Party shall, at the request of the other Party, enter into consultations 
with  a  view  to  eliminating  practices  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.    The  Party 
addressed shall accord full and sympathetic consideration to such a request and 
shall  co-operate  through  the  supply  of  publicly  available  non-confidential 
information of relevance to the matter in question.  The Party addressed shall 
also provide other information available to the requesting Party, subject to its 
domestic laws and to the conclusion of satisfactory agreement concerning the 
safeguarding of its confidentiality by the requesting Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 71 
Safeguard Measures 
 
The Parties note the multilateral negotiations pursuant to Article X of the GATS 
on the question of emergency safeguard measures based on the principle of 
non-discrimination.  Upon the conclusion of such multilateral negotiations, the 
Parties  shall  conduct  a  review  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  appropriate 
amendments  to  this  Agreement  so  as  to  incorporate  the  results  of  such 
multilateral negotiations. 
 
 
ARTICLE 72 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1.  Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 107 (Restrictions to 
Safeguard  the  Balance-of-Payments),  a  Party  shall  not  apply  restrictions  on 
international  transfers  and  payments  for  current  transactions  relating  to  its 
specific commitments. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of the 
Parties as members of the International Monetary Fund under the Articles of 
Agreement  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (the  “Articles  of  Agreement”), 
including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles of 
Agreement, provided that a Party shall not impose restrictions on any capital 
transactions  inconsistently  with  its  specific  commitments  regarding  such transactions, except under Article 107 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance-of-
Payments) or at the request of the International Monetary Fund. 
 
 
ARTICLE 73 
Transparency 
 
Article III of the GATS is, mutatis mutandis, incorporated into and shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 74 
Disclosure of Confidential Information 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall require any Party to provide confidential information, 
the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary 
to the public interest, or which would prejudice legitimate commercial interests of 
particular enterprises, public or private. 
 
 
ARTICLE 75 
Denial of Benefits 
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Agreement: 
 
  (a)  to  the  supply  of  a  service,  if  it  establishes  that  the  service  is 
supplied from or in the territory of a non-Party; 
 
  (b)  in  the  case  of  the  supply  of  a  maritime  transport  service,  if  it 
establishes that the service is supplied: 
 
  (i)  by a vessel registered under the laws of a non-Party; and 
 
  (ii)  by a person of a non-Party which operates and/or uses the 
vessel in whole or in part. 
 
  (c)  to a service supplier that is a juridical person, if it establishes that it 
is not a service supplier of the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 76 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
The  GATS  Annexes,  namely:  the  Annex  on  Movement  of  Natural  Persons 
Supplying Services; the Annex on Air Transport Services; the Annex on Financial Services; and the Annex on Telecommunications, shall be incorporated, mutatis 
mutandis, into and form an integral part of this Agreement. 