CHAPTER 9 
MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 77 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  business visitor means a natural person of either Party who is: 
 
(i)  a  service  seller  being  a  natural  person  who  is  a  sales 
representative  of  a  service  supplier  of  that  Party  and  is 
seeking temporary entry into the territory of the other Party 
for the purpose of negotiating the sale of services for that 
service  supplier,  where  such  representative  will  not  be 
engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in 
supplying services directly; or 
 
(ii)  (A)  an investor of a Party, being a natural person of a 
Party who is making or has made an investment in 
the territory of the other Party; or 
 
(B)  a duly authorised representative of an investor of a 
Party (including a juridical person of a Party that is 
making or has made an investment in the territory of 
the other Party), 
 
seeking temporary entry into the territory of the other Party 
to establish, expand, monitor, or dispose of an investment of 
that investor; or 
 
(iii)  a  goods  seller,  being  a  natural  person  who  is  seeking 
temporary entry to the territory of the other Party to negotiate 
the sale of goods where such negotiations do not involve 
direct sales to the general public; 
 
(b)  contractual service supplier means a natural person of a Party 
who: 
 
(i)  is an employee of a service supplier or an enterprise of a 
Party, whether a company, partnership or firm, who enters 
the territory of the other Party temporarily in order to perform 
a service pursuant to a contract between his employer and a 
service consumer in the territory of the other Party; 
 (ii)  is employed by a company, partnership or firm of the Party, 
which  has no  commercial  presence  in the territory  of  the 
other Party where the service is to be provided; 
 
(iii)  receives his or her remuneration from that employer; and 
 
(iv)  satisfies  any  other  requirements under  the  domestic  laws 
and regulations of the other Party to provide such services in 
the territory of that Party; 
 
(c)  executive  means  a  natural  person  within  an  organisation  who 
primarily  directs  the  management  of  the  organisation,  exercises 
wide  latitude  in  decision  making,  and  receives  only  general 
supervision or direction from higher level executives, the board of 
directors or stockholders of the business.  An executive would not 
directly perform tasks related to the actual provision of the service 
or the operation of an investment; 
 
(d)  immigration  formality  means  a  visa,  permit,  pass,  or  other 
document or electronic authority granting a natural person of one 
Party the right to enter, reside or work in the territory of the other 
Party; 
 
(e)  immigration  measure  means  any  law,  regulation,  policy  or 
procedure affecting the entry and sojourn of foreign nationals; 
 
(f)  intra-corporate transferee means an executive, a manager, or a 
specialist as defined respectively in sub-paragraphs (c), (g) and (h) 
of this Article, who is an employee of a service supplier or investor 
of a Party with a commercial presence, as defined in Chapter 8 
(Trade in Services), in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(g)  manager  means  a  natural  person  within  an  organisation  who 
primarily directs the organisation or a department or sub-division of 
the  organisation,  supervises  and  controls  the  work  of  other 
supervisory,  professional  or  managerial  employees,  has  the 
authority to hire and fire or take other personnel actions (such as 
promotion  or  leave  authorisation),  and  exercises  discretionary 
authority over day-to-day operations.  For greater clarity, this does 
not include employees who primarily perform tasks necessary for 
the provision of the service; 
 
(h)  specialist  means  a  natural  person  within  an  organisation  who 
possesses knowledge at an advanced level of technical expertise, 
and  who  possesses  proprietary  knowledge  of  the  organisation’s 
service, research equipment, techniques or management; and  
(i)  temporary  entry  means  entry  by  a  business  visitor,  an  intra-
corporate transferee, or a contractual service supplier, as the case 
may be, without the intent to establish permanent residence and for 
the purpose of engaging in activities which are clearly related to 
their respective business purposes.  Additionally, in the case of a 
business visitor, the salaries of and any related payments to such a 
visitor should be paid entirely by the service supplier or juridical 
person which employs that visitor in the visitor’s home country. 
 
 
ARTICLE 78 
Objectives 
 
The objective of this Chapter, which reflects the preferential trading relationship 
between  the  Parties  and  their  mutual  desire  to  facilitate  temporary  entry  of 
natural persons, is to establish transparent criteria and streamlined procedures 
for temporary entry, while recognising the need to ensure border security and to 
protect the domestic labour force in the territories of the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 79 
Scope 
 
1.  This  Chapter  applies  to  measures  affecting  the  movement  of  natural 
persons of a Party into the territory of the other Party, where such persons are: 
 
(a)  business visitors; 
 
(b)  contractual services suppliers; or 
 
(c)  intra-corporate transferees. 
 
2.  Nothing  in  this  Chapter,  Chapter  8  (Trade  in  Services)  or  Chapter  10 
(Investment)  shall  apply  to  measures  pertaining  to  citizenship,  nationality, 
residence or employment on a permanent basis. 
 
3.  Nothing  contained  in  this  Chapter,  Chapter  8  (Trade  in  Services)  or 
Chapter  10  (Investment)  shall  prevent  a  Party  from  applying  measures  to 
regulate the entry or temporary stay of natural persons of the other Party in its 
territory, including measures necessary to protect the integrity of its territory and 
to ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across its borders, provided such measures are not applied in a manner so as to nullify or impair the benefits 
accruing to the other Party under this Agreement1. 
 
 
ARTICLE 80 
Expeditious Application Procedures 
 
Each Party shall process expeditiously applications for immigration formalities 
from natural persons of the other Party, including further immigration formality 
requests or extensions thereof, so as to avoid unduly impairing or delaying trade 
in goods or services or conduct of investment activities under this Agreement.  
Each Party shall notify applicants for temporary entry, either directly or through 
their authorised representative or their prospective employer of the outcome of 
their applications, including the period of stay and other conditions. 
 
 
ARTICLE 81 
General Principles for Grant of Temporary Entry 
 
1.  The  Parties  may  make  commitments  in  respect  of  temporary  entry  of 
natural persons, as defined in Article 59 (Definitions). 
 
2.  Such commitments and the conditions governing them shall be inscribed 
in Annex 6 (Commitments on Temporary Entry of Natural Persons). 
 
3.  Where a Party makes a commitment under paragraphs 1 and 2, that Party 
shall  grant  temporary  entry  to  the  extent  provided  for  in  that  commitment, 
provided that such natural persons are otherwise qualified under all applicable 
immigration measures. 
 
4.  In  respect  of  the  commitments  on  temporary  entry  in  Annex  6 
(Commitments  on  Temporary  Entry  of  Natural  Persons),  unless  otherwise 
specified therein, neither Party may: 
 
(a)  require labour certification tests, or other procedures of similar effect; 
 
(b)  impose or maintain any numerical restriction relating to temporary 
entry; or 
 
(c)  require  labour  market  testing,  economic  needs  testing  or  other 
procedures of similar effects as a condition for temporary entry. 
 
                                            
1  The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of a Party and not for those of non-Parties 
shall not be regarded as nullifying or impairing trade in goods or services or conduct of 
investment activities under this Agreement. 5.  Each Party shall limit any fees for processing applications for temporary 
entry of natural persons to the approximate cost of services rendered. 
 
6.  The temporary entry granted by virtue of this Chapter does not replace the 
requirements needed to carry out a profession or activity according to the specific 
laws  and  regulations  in  force  in  the  territory  of  the  Party  authorising  the 
temporary entry.  
 
 
ARTICLE 82 
Transparency 
 
Each  Party  shall,  upon  modifying  or  amending  an  immigration  measure  that 
affects the temporary entry of natural persons, ensure that such modifications or 
amendments  are  promptly  published  and  made  available  through  electronic 
means or otherwise, in such a manner as will enable natural persons of the other 
Party to become acquainted with them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 83 
Contact Points 
 
Each Party shall designate a contact point to facilitate communication and the 
effective implementation of this Chapter, and respond to inquiries from the other 
Party regarding regulations affecting the movement of natural persons between 
the Parties or on any matter covered by this Chapter, and shall provide details of 
this contact point to the other Party.  The Parties shall notify each other promptly 
of any amendment to the details of their contact point.  The contact point should 
identify  and  recommend  areas  for  and  ways  of  furthering  co-operation  in 
promoting increased movement of natural persons between the Parties. 