  - 34 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  VII   PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  
   
   
 
  ARTICLE 54  
   
 
Protection of Intellectual Property  
 
 
1.   The Parties shall grant and ensure adequate and effective protection of intellectual 
property rights, and provide for measures for the enforcement of such rights against 
infringement thereof, counterfeiting and piracy, in accordance with the provisions of this 
Article, Annex XII and the international agreements referred to therein.  
   
2.   The Parties shall accord to each other’s nationals treatment no less favourable 
than that they accord to their own nationals.  Exemptions from this obligation must be in 
accordance with the substantive provisions of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related 
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (hereinafter referred to as “the TRIPS  
Agreement”), in particular Articles 3 and 5 thereof.   
   
3.   The Parties shall accord to each other’s nationals treatment no less favourable 
than that they accord to nationals of any other State. Exemptions from this obligation 
must be in accordance with the substantive provisions of the TRIPS Agreement, in  
particular Articles 4 and 5 thereof.  
   
4.   The Parties agree, upon request of any Party to the Joint Committee and subject to 
its consensus, to review the provisions on the protection of intellectual property rights 
contained in the present Article and in Annex XII, with a view to further improving the 
levels of protection and to avoiding or remedying trade distortions caused by actual levels 
of protection of intellectual property rights.  
 
 
 
VIII  INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS  
 
 
ARTICLE 55  
 
The Joint Committee  
   
1.   The Parties hereby establish the EFTA-Singapore Joint Committee comprising 
representatives of each Party.  It shall be co-chaired by Ministers or by senior officials 
delegated by them for this purpose.  
   
2.   The Joint Committee shall:  
 
(a)   supervise the implementation of this Agreement;    - 35 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (b)   keep under review the possibility of further removal of barriers to trade 
  and other restrictive measures concerning commerce between the EFTA 
 
States and Singapore;  
 
 
 
  (c)   oversee the further elaboration of this Agreement;  
 
 
 
(d)   supervise the work of all sub-committees and working groups established 
 
  under this Agreement;  
   
 
(e)   endeavour to resolve disputes that may arise regarding the interpretation or 
 
  application of this Agreement; and  
   
 
(f)   consider any other matter that may affect the operation of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
3.   The Joint Committee may decide to set up such sub-committees and working 
groups as it considers necessary to assist it in accomplishing its tasks. Except where 
specifically provided for in this Agreement, the sub-committees and working groups shall 
work under a mandate established by the Joint Committee.  
   
4.   The Joint Committee may take decisions as provided for in this Agreement. On 
other matters the Joint Committee may make recommendations.  
   
5.   The Joint Committee shall take decisions and make recommendations by 
consensus.  
   
6.   The Joint Committee shall meet whenever necessary but normally once every two 
years. The regular meetings of the Joint Committee shall be chaired jointly by one of the 
EFTA States and Singapore. The Joint Committee shall establish its rules of procedure. 
   
7.   Each Party may request at any time, through a notice in writing to the other 
Parties, that a special meeting of the Joint Committee be held. Such a meeting shall take 
place within 30 days of receipt of the request, unless the Parties agree otherwise.  
   
8.   The Joint Committee may decide to amend the Annexes and Appendices to this 
Agreement. Subject to paragraph 9, it may set a date for the entry into force of such  
decisions.  
   
9.   If a representative of a Party in the Joint Committee has accepted a decision 
subject to the fulfillment of constitutional requirements, the decision shall enter into force 
on the date that the last Party notifies that its internal requirements have been fulfilled, 
unless the decision itself specifies a later date. The Joint Committee may decide that the 
decision shall enter into force for those Parties that have fulfilled their internal  
requirements, provided that Singapore is one of those Parties. A Party may apply a  
decision of the Joint Committee provisionally until such decision enters into force,  
subject to its constitutional requirements.  