  - 3 -  
 
 
 
 
I   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 
 
ARTICLE 1  
 
Objectives  
   
1.   The EFTA States and Singapore hereby establish a free-trade area in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement.  
   
2.   The objectives of this Agreement, which is based on trade relations between  
market economies are:  
 
(a)   to achieve the liberalisation of trade in goods, in conformity with Article 
XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (hereinafter referred 
to as “the GATT 1994”);  
 
(b)   to promote competition in their economies, particularly as it relates to 
economic relations between the Parties;  
 
(c)   to achieve further liberalisation on a mutual basis of the government  
procurement markets of the Parties;  
 
(d)   to achieve the liberalisation of trade in services, in conformity with Article 
V of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (hereinafter referred to 
as “the GATS”);  
 
(e)   to mutually enhance investment opportunities and accord constant  
protection for investors and investments;  
 
(f)   to ensure adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, 
in accordance with international standards; and  
 
(g)   to contribute in this way, by the removal of barriers to trade and  
investment, to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2  
 
Geographical Scope  
   
1.   Without prejudice to Annex I, this Agreement shall apply:  
 
(a)   to the land territory, internal waters, and the territorial sea of a Party, and 
the air-space above the territory in accordance with international law; as 
well as    - 4 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (b)   beyond the territorial sea, with respect to measures taken by a Party in the 
  exercise of its sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with  
 
international law.  
 
 
 
2.   Annex II applies with respect to Norway.  
   
   
 
ARTICLE 3  
 
   
  Trade and Economic Relations Governed by this Agreement  
 
 
1.   The provisions of this Agreement apply to the trade and economic relations  
between, on the one side, the EFTA States and, on the other side, Singapore, but not to 
the trade relations between individual EFTA States, unless otherwise provided for in this 
Agreement.  
   
2.   As a result of the customs union established by the Treaty of 29 March 1923 
between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein, Switzerland shall represent the 
Principality of Liechtenstein in matters covered thereby.  
 
 
ARTICLE 4  
 
Relationship to Other Agreements  
 
The provisions of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to the rights and 
obligations of the Parties under the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade 
Organization and the other agreements negotiated thereunder (hereinafter referred to as 
“the WTO Agreement”) to which they are a party and any other international agreement 
to which they are a party.  
 
 
ARTICLE 5  
 
Regional and Local Government  
 
Each Party is fully responsible for the observance of all obligations and  
commitments under this Agreement and shall ensure their observance by its respective 
regional and local governments and authorities and by non-governmental bodies in the 
exercise of governmental powers delegated by central, regional and local governments or 
authorities within its territory.  