 
 
ANNEX IX 
 
 
REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 36 
 
 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Definitions 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
a)  “Supplier”  refers  to  a  telecommunications  operator  that  supplies  or 
intends to supply telecommunications services. 
 
b)  “Dominant Supplier” is a Supplier who, on its own or, together with 
other Suppliers based on an agreement or otherwise, has the ability to 
materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and 
supply)  in  the  relevant  market  for  a  specific  telecommunications 
service as a result of: 
 
i)  control over essential facilities; or  
 
ii)  use of its position in the market.  
 
c)  “Essential facilities” mean facilities of a public telecommunications 
network or service that 
i)  are  exclusively  or  predominantly  provided  by  a  single  or 
limited number of suppliers; and 
ii)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in 
order to provide a service. 
 
 
Article 2 
 
General Principles 
 
1.  Competition and Reliance on Market Forces 
 
With  a  view  to  ensure  the  supply  of  cost-effective,  high  quality 
telecommunications  services,  the  Parties  shall  adopt  or  maintain 
appropriate  measures  to  prevent  anti-competitive  practices  of - 2 - 
Suppliers. There shall be primary reliance on private negotiations and 
industry self-regulation, subject to requirements designed to prevent 
anti-competitive conduct. 
 
 
2.  Regulatory Principles 
 
Measures and their application shall be objective, impartial and non-
discriminatory.  They  shall,  to  the  extent  feasible,  be  technology-
neutral. 
 
3.  Transparency 
 
Regulatory  requirements  shall  be  applied  in  a  transparent  manner. 
Unless there is an overriding public or private interest not to do so, the 
regulatory authorities shall make interconnection agreements publicly 
available.  
 
4.  Avoidance of Unnecessary Delay 
 
Recognising the need to respond rapidly to changing market forces, all 
decisions and directions pertaining to the regulatory measures outlined 
in  this  Annex,  including  decisions  regarding  appeals,  shall  be 
implemented  by  the  relevant  authorities  as  quickly  as  reasonably 
possible.  
 
5.  Right to appeal 
 
A Supplier affected by a decision of a regulatory authority shall have 
recourse  to  appeal  to  an  independent administrative  body  and/or  a 
court, in accordance with domestic legislation. 
 
 
Article 3 
 
Licensing Procedures 
 
1.  Where a licence is required, all the licensing criteria and the period of time 
normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence shall be 
made publicly available.  
 
2.  The granting of the license shall be based on the licensing criteria referred to 
in paragraph 1.  
 
3.  The  period  of  time  normally  required  to  reach  a  decision  concerning  an 
application for a licence shall be reasonable. 
 
4.  Where a licence has been denied to an applicant, the reasons for the denial 
shall be made known to the applicant upon request. 
 
 
 - 3 - 
 
Article 4 
 
Allocation and Use of Scarce Resources 
 
Any  procedures  for  the  allocation  and  use  of  scarce  resources,  including 
frequencies, numbers and rights of way, shall be carried out in an objective, timely, 
transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The current state of allocated frequency 
bands shall be made publicly available. 
 
 
Article 5 
 
Competitive Safeguards 
 
1.  The Parties shall provide for measures to prevent anti-competitive conduct by 
Dominant Suppliers, acting singly or collectively, which frustrate the benefits of this 
Agreement as it relates to telecommunications services. 
 
2.  With regard to Dominant Suppliers, the anti-competitive practices, referred to in 
paragraph 1, shall include in particular: 
a)  engaging in anti-competitive pricing or cross-subsidisation; 
b)  using  information  obtained  from  competitors  with  anti-competitive 
results; 
c)  not making available to other Suppliers on a timely basis technical 
information  about  essential  facilities  and  commercially  relevant 
information which are necessary for them to provide services; and  
d)  not offering to other Suppliers, on a non-discriminatory basis, access to 
essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are 
necessary for them to provide services. 
 
 
Article 6 
 
Minimum Interconnection Obligations 
 
1.  Obligation to Interconnect with Other Suppliers 
 
Suppliers  offering  a  public  switched  telephone  service  shall 
interconnect either directly or indirectly with other Suppliers. 
 
2.  Disclose Technical and Commercial Conditions 
 
A Supplier shall be required to make publicly available, in a clear 
format  and  in  sufficient  detail,  any  technical  and  commercial 
conditions concerning interconnection. 
 
 
 - 4 - 
3.  Protection of Confidential Information 
 
According to domestic laws and regulations, Suppliers shall protect 
from disclosure any confidential or proprietary information obtained 
from another Supplier in the course of negotiating or implementing an 
interconnection agreement. Suppliers may use such information only 
for the provision of the specific Interconnection Related Services (IRS) 
requested. 
 
4.  Duty to Prevent Technical Harm to the Network 
 
A  Supplier  that  interconnects  with  another  Supplier  shall  only  use 
telecommunications  installations  that  do  not  cause  physical  or 
technical harm to the other Supplier’s network. 
 
5.  Comply with Mandatory Technical Standards 
 
Suppliers shall be required to comply with any applicable mandatory 
technical standard adopted. The telecommunications industry shall be 
consulted with regard to efforts to determine which technical standards 
should be made mandatory. 
 
6.  Facilitate Change of Suppliers 
 
Suppliers shall be required to take any reasonable action necessary to 
allow  an  end  user  that  chooses  to  obtain  service  from  a  different 
Supplier to do so with minimum difficulty. This includes the duty, 
where technically feasible, to allow the end user to retain the same 
telephone  number  or  network  address  and  to  continue  to  receive 
service using the same local loop. 
 
7.  Duty to Provide Billing Information 
 
Unless  they  agree  otherwise,  the  interconnecting  Suppliers  shall  be 
required to exchange information that is necessary to provide accurate 
and timely billing to themselves, their affiliates or other Suppliers. 
 
 
Article 7 
 
Interconnection with Dominant Suppliers 
 
1.  A Dominant Supplier shall grant interconnection to other Suppliers without 
discrimination and in accordance with the principles of transparent and cost oriented 
price policy. The provisions of Article 6, paragraphs 2 to 7 shall also apply. 
2.  Interconnection with a Dominant Supplier shall be ensured at any technically 
feasible point in the network. Such interconnection shall be provided: 
 
 - 5 - 
a)  under  non-discriminatory  terms,  conditions  (including  technical 
standards  and  specifications)  and  rates  and  of  a  quality  no  less 
favourable  than  that  provided  for  its  own  like  services  or  for  like 
services  of  non-affiliated  Suppliers  or  for  its  subsidiaries  or  other 
affiliates; 
b)  in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards 
and  specifications)  and  cost-oriented  rates  that  are  transparent, 
reasonable,  having  regard  to  economic  feasibility,  and  sufficiently 
unbundled so that Suppliers need not pay for network components or 
facilities they do not require for the service to be provided; 
c)  upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points 
offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of 
construction of necessary additional facilities. 
3.  A Supplier that seeks to interconnect with a Dominant Supplier shall be able to 
do so pursuant to the terms of a Reference Interconnection Offer (RIO) extended by 
the Dominant Supplier. The RIO shall contain written statements of the prices, terms 
and conditions on which a Dominant Supplier will provide interconnection services to 
a  Supplier  seeking  interconnection.  The  RIO  shall  be  required  to  contain  the 
following: 
a)  A list and description of the IRS offered, the terms and conditions for 
such services, the commercial and technical requirements; 
b)  A  list  of  cost-based  prices  for  the  IRS  where  the  Supplier  has  a 
dominant position.  The  Dominant  Supplier  shall  use  an  established 
methodology based on long-run average incremental costs (LRAIC) or 
any other forward-looking methodology better reflecting the relevant 
costs.  
4.  The RIO must be modular, allowing a Supplier seeking interconnection to 
purchase only those IRS that it wants to obtain. The RIO must be sufficiently detailed 
to enable a Supplier that is willing to accept its prices, terms and conditions to obtain 
IRS  without  having  to  engage  in  negotiations  with  the  Dominant  Supplier.  If  a 
Supplier accepts the RIO, further discussions will be limited to implementing the 
accepted prices, terms and conditions. 
 
 
Article 8 
 
Interconnection Dispute Resolution 
 
Where Suppliers are unable to resolve disputes regarding the negotiation of an 
Interconnection Agreement with Dominant Suppliers within a stipulated time, they 
shall have recourse to assistance from the relevant regulatory authorities to resolve 
disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a 
reasonable time frame. The relevant regulatory authority shall fix the conditions for the 
interconnection in accordance with the normal principles governing the market and 
 
 - 6 - 
the sector in question and in accordance with the principles of Article 2, Article 6 and 
Article 7. Domestic legislation may provide for special conciliation proceedings. 
 
Article 9 
 
Independent Regulators 
 
The regulatory authority shall be separate from, and not accountable to, any 
Supplier of basic telecommunications services.  
 
 
Article 10 
 
Universal Service 
 
Domestic regulation may define the kind of universal service obligation that 
should be maintained. Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, 
provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively 
neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal 
service defined by domestic regulation. 
 
 
 
__________________ 
 
 