- 42 -  
 
 
Parties that consider it is not practicable or effective to suspend benefits in the same 
sector or sectors may suspend benefits in other sectors.  
   
8.   The complaining Party or Parties shall notify the other Party or Parties of the 
benefits which it intends to suspend no later than 60 days before the date on which the 
suspension is due to take effect. Within 15 days from that notification, any of the Parties 
to the dispute may request the original arbitration panel to rule on whether the benefits 
which the complaining Party or Parties intend to suspend are equivalent to those affected 
by the measure found to violate this Agreement, and whether the proposed suspension is 
in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7. The ruling of the arbitration panel shall be given 
within 45 days from that request. Benefits shall not be suspended until the arbitration 
panel has issued its ruling.  
   
9.   The suspension of benefits shall be temporary and shall only be applied by the 
complaining Party or Parties until the measure found to violate this Agreement has been 
withdrawn or amended so as to bring it into conformity with this Agreement, or the 
Parties to the dispute have reached agreement on a resolution of the dispute.  
 
10.   At the request of any of the Parties to the dispute, the original arbitration panel 
shall rule on the conformity with the final report of any implementing measures adopted 
after the suspension of benefits and, in light of such ruling, whether the suspension of 
benefits should be terminated or modified. The ruling of the arbitration panel shall be 
given within 30 days from the date of that request.  
 
11.   The rulings provided for in paragraphs 4, 5, 8 and 10 shall be binding.  
 
 
ARTICLE 66  
 
Other Provisions  
 
Any time period mentioned in this Chapter may be extended by mutual agreement 
of the Parties involved.  
   
   
   
X   FINAL CLAUSES  
 
 
ARTICLE 67  
 
Transparency  
   
1.   The Parties shall publish their laws, or otherwise make publicly available their 
laws, regulations and administrative rulings and judicial decisions of general application - 43 -  
 
 
as well as their respective international agreements that may affect the operation of this 
Agreement.  
   
2.   The Parties shall promptly respond to specific questions and provide, upon  
request, information to each other on matters referred to in paragraph 1.  
   
3.   Nothing in this Agreement shall require any Party to disclose confidential  
information, which would impede law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the  
public interest or would prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of any economic 
operator.  
 
 
ARTICLE 68  
 
Annexes and Appendices  
 
The Annexes and Appendices to this Agreement form an integral part thereof.  
 
 
ARTICLE 69  
 
Amendments  
   
1.   Amendments to this Agreement shall, after approval by the Joint Committee, be 
submitted to the Parties for ratification, acceptance or approval, subject to each Party’s 
constitutional requirements.  
   
2.   Unless the Joint Committee decides otherwise, the amendments shall enter into 
force on the first day of the third month following the deposit of the last instrument of 
ratification, acceptance or approval.  
   
3.   The text of the amendments as well as the instrume nts of ratification, acceptance 
or approval shall be deposited with the Depositary.  
 
 
ARTICLE 70  
 
Additional Parties  
 
Any third State may become a Party to this Agreement.  The terms and conditions 
of the participation by such third State shall be the subject of an agreement between the 
Parties and that State.    - 44 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ARTICLE 71  
   
 
Withdrawal and Termination  
 
   
1.   Any Party may withdraw therefrom by means of a written notification to the 
Depositary. The withdrawal shall take effect on the first day of the sixth month after the 
date on which the notification was received by the Depositary.  
   
2.   If Singapore withdraws, this Agreement shall expire on the date specified in  
paragraph 1.     
 
 
ARTICLE 72  
 
Entry into Force  
   
1.   This Agreement is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval. The instruments 
of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Depositary.  
   
2.   This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2003 in relation to those 
Signatory States which by then have ratified the Agreement, provided they have  
deposited their instruments of ratification or acceptance with the Depositary at least two 
months before the entry into force, and provided that Singapore is among the States that 
have deposited their instruments of ratification or acceptance.  
   
3.   In relation to a Signatory State depositing its instrument of ratification or  
acceptance after 1 January 2003, this Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of 
the third month following the deposit of its instrument, provided that in relation to the 
Republic of Singapore this Agreement enters into force at the latest on the same date.  
   
4.   Any Party may, if its constitutional requirements permit, apply this Agreement 
provisionally during an initial period starting on 1 January 2003. Provisional application 
of this Agreement shall be notified to the Depositary.  
 
 
ARTICLE 73  
 
Depositary  
 
The Government of Norway shall act as Depositary.  