 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
- 36 -  
 
 
 
IX  
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT  
 
 
ARTICLE 56  
 
Scope and Coverage  
 
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance or the 
settlement of all disputes arising from this Agreement between any one or more of the 
EFTA States and Singapore.  
 
2.  
 
Disputes on the same matter arising under both this Agreement and the WTO 
Agreement, or any agreement negotiated thereunder, to which the Parties are party, may 
be settled in either forum at the discretion of the complaining Party. The forum thus 
selected shall be used to the exclusion of the other.  
 
3.  
 
Before a Party initiates a dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO  
Agreement against another Party or Parties or, vice–versa, that Party shall notify all other 
Parties of its intention.   
 
 
ARTICLE 57  
 
Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation  
 
1.  
 
Good offices, conciliation and mediation are procedures that are undertaken  
voluntarily if the Parties involved so agree. They may begin at any time and be  
terminated at any time.  
 
2.  
 
Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation and mediation shall be  
confidential and without prejudice to their rights in any other proceedings.   
 
 
ARTICLE 58  
 
Consultations  
 
1.  
 
The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation and  
application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt through co-operation and 
consultations to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that might affect 
its operation.  
 
2.  
 
Any one or more of the EFTA States may request in writing consultations with 
Singapore, and vice-versa whenever a Party considers that a measure applied by the Party 
or Parties to which the request is made is inconsistent with this Agreement or that any 
- 37 -  
 
 
benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly under this Agreement is impaired by such  
measure.
12The Party requesting consultations shall at the same time notify the other  
Parties in writing thereof. Consultations shall take place before the Joint Committee  
unless the Party or Parties making or receiving the request for consultations disagree.  
 
3.  
 
Consultations shall be held within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request 
for consultations. Consultations on urgent matters, including those on perishable  
agricultural goods, shall commence within 15 days from the receipt of the request for 
consultations.  
 
4.  
 
The Parties involved in the consultations shall provide sufficient information to 
enable a full examination of how the measure or other matter might affect the operation 
of this Agreement and treat any confidential or proprietary information exchanged in the 
course of consultations in the same manner as the Party providing the information.  
 
5.  
 
The consultations shall be confidential and without prejudice to the  rights of the 
Parties involved in any further proceedings.  
 
6.  
 
The Parties involved in the consultations shall inform the other Parties of any  
mutually agreed resolution of the matter.  
 
 
ARTICLE 59  
 
Establishment of Arbitration Panel  
 
1.  
 
If the matter has not been resolved within 60 days, or 30 days in relation to a 
matter of urgency, after the date of receipt of the request for consultations, it may be 
referred to arbitration by one or more of the Parties involved by means of a written 
notification addressed to the Party or Parties complained against. A copy of this  
notification shall also be communicated to all Parties so that each Party may determine 
whether to participate in the dispute.   
 
2.  
 
Where more than one Party requests the establishment of an arbitration panel 
relating to the same matter, a single arbitration panel should be established to examine 
these complaints whenever feasible.    
 
3.  
 
A request for arbitration shall give the reason for the complaint including the 
identification of the measure at issue and an indication of the legal basis of the  
complaint.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The word “such” refers to “a measure applied by the Party or Parties to which the request is 
made”.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
 
2.  
- 38 -  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 60  
 
Arbitration Panel   
 
The arbitration panel shall comprise three members.   
 
In the written notification pursuant to Article 59, the Party or the Parties referring 
the dispute to arbitration shall designate one member of the arbitration panel.  
 
3.  
 
Within 15 days of the receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 2, the 
Party or Parties to which it was addressed to shall designate one member of the  
arbitration panel.   
 
4.  
 
The Parties to the dispute shall agree on the appointment of the third arbitrator 
within 30 days of the appointment of the second arbitrator. The member thus appointed 
shall chair the arbitration panel.   
 
5.  
 
If all 3 members have not been designated or appointed within 45 days from the 
date of receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 2, the necessary designations 
shall be made at the request of any Party to the dispute by the Director-General of the 
World Trade Organization within a further 30 days.   
 
6.  
 
The Chair of the arbitration panel shall not be a national of any of the Parties, nor 
have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of any of the Parties, nor be 
employed or previously have been employed by any of the Parties, nor have dealt with 
the case in any capacity.  
 
7.  
 
If an arbitrator dies, withdraws or is removed, a replacement shall be selected 
within 15 days in accordance with the selection procedure followed to select him or her. 
In such a case, any time period applicable to the arbitration panel proceedings shall be 
suspended for a period beginning on the date the arbitrator dies, withdraws or is removed 
and ending on the date the replacement is selected.  
 
8.  
 
The date of establishment of the arbitration panel shall be the date on which the 
Chair is appointed.  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 61  
 
Procedures of the Arbitration Panel  
 
1.  
 
Unless the Parties to the dispute agree otherwise, the arbitration panel proceedings 
shall be conducted in accordance with the Model Rules of Procedure that shall be adopted 
at the first meeting of the Joint Committee. Pending the adoption of such rules, the 
- 39 -  
 
 
arbitration panel shall regulate its own procedures, unless the Parties to the dispute agree 
otherwise.  
 
2.  
 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, for all arbitration panel proceedings the procedures 
shall ensure that:  
 
(a)  
the Parties to the dispute have the right to at least one hearing before the 
arbitration panel as well as the opportunity to provide initial and rebuttal 
written submissions;   
 
(b)  
the Parties to the dispute shall be invited to all the hearings held by the 
arbitration panel;   
 
(c)  
all submissions and comments made to the arbitration panel be available to 
the Parties to the dispute, subject to any requirements on confidentiality; 
and  
 
(d)  
hearings, deliberations and initial report and all written submissions to and 
communications with the arbitration panel be confidential.  
 
3.  
 
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree within 20 days from the date of 
delivery of the request for the establishment of the arbitration panel, the terms of  
reference shall be:   
 
"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the Agreement, the 
matter referred to in the request for the establishment of an arbitration  
panel pursuant to Article 59 and to make findings of law and fact together 
with the reasons therefore as well as recommendations, if any, for the 
resolution of the dispute.”  
 
4.  
 
At the request of a Party to the dispute or on its own initiative, the arbitration 
panel may seek scientific information and technical advice from experts as it deems 
appropriate.  
 
5.  
 
The arbitration panel shall make its award based on the provisions of this  
Agreement, applied and interpreted in accordance with the rules of interpretation of  
public international law.  
 
6.  
 
Decisions of the arbitration panel shall be taken by a majority of its members.  
Panellists may furnish separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed.  No 
arbitration panel may disclose which panellists are associated with majority or minority 
opinions.   
 
7.  
 
The expenses of the arbitration panel, including the remuneration of its members, 
shall be borne by the Parties to the dispute in equal shares.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
- 40 -  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 62  
 
Initial Report  
 
The arbitration panel shall within 90 days from the date of the establishment of 
the arbitration panel present to the Parties to the dispute an initial report.  
 
2.  
 
The arbitration panel shall base its report on the submissions and arguments of the 
Parties to the dispute and on any scientific information and technical advice pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Article 61.  
 
3.  
 
A Party to the dispute may submit written comments to the arbitration panel on its 
initial report within 14 days of presentation of the report.  
 
4.  
 
In such an event, and after considering such written comments, the arbitration  
panel, on its own initiative or at the request of any of the Parties to the dispute, may:  
 
(a)  request the views of any of the Parties to the dispute;  
 
(b)  reconsider its report; and  
 
(c)  make any further examination that it considers appropriate.  
 
 
ARTICLE 63  
 
Final Report  
 
1.  
 
The arbitration panel shall present to the Parties to the dispute a final report, 
containing the matters referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 62, including any separate 
opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, within 30 days of presentation of the initial 
report.  
 
2.  
 
Unless the Parties to the dispute decide otherwise, the final report shall be  
published 15 days after it is presented to them.  
 
 
ARTICLE 64  
 
Termination of Arbitration Panel Proceedings 
 
A complaining Party may withdraw its complaint at any time before the initial 
report has been issued. Such withdrawal is without prejudice to its right to introduce a 
new complaint regarding the same issue at a later point in time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
- 41 -  
 
 
 
ARTICLE 65  
 
Implementation of Arbitration Panel Reports 
 
The final report shall be final and binding on the Parties to the dispute. Each Party 
to the dispute shall be bound to take the measures involved in carrying out the final report 
referred to in Article 63.  
 
2.  
 
The Party or Parties concerned shall inform the other Party or Parties to the 
dispute within 30 days after the final report has been issued of its intentions in respect of 
its implementation.  
 
3.  
 
The Parties to the dispute shall endeavour to agree on the specific measures that 
are required for implementing the final report. Wherever possible, the resolution shall be 
the removal of a measure not conforming to this Agreement, or failing such a resolution, 
compensation.  
 
4.  
 
The Party or Parties concerned shall promptly comply with the final report. If it is 
impracticable to comply immediately, the Parties to the dispute shall endeavour to agree 
on a reasonable period of time to do so. In the absence of such agreement, any Party to 
the dispute may request the original arbitration panel to determine the length of  the 
reasonable period of time, in light of the particular circumstances of the case. The ruling 
of the arbitration panel shall be given within 15 days from that request.  
 
5.  
 
The Party or Parties concerned shall notify to the other Party or Parties to the 
dispute the measures adopted in order to implement the final report before the expiry of 
the reasonable period of time determined in accordance with paragraph 4. Upon that 
notification, any Party to the dispute may request the original arbitration panel to rule on 
the conformity of those measures with the final report. The ruling of the arbitration panel 
shall be given within 60 days from that request.  
 
6.  
 
If the Party or Parties concerned fails to notify the implementing measures before 
the expiry of the reasonable period of time determined in accordance with paragraph 4, or 
if the arbitration panel rules that the implementing measures notified by the Party or 
Parties concerned are inconsistent with the final report, such Party or Parties shall, if so 
requested by the complaining Party or Parties, enter into consultations with a view to 
agree on a mutually acceptable compensation. If no such agreement has been reached 
within 20 days from the request, the complaining Party or Parties shall be entitled to 
suspend only the application of benefits granted under this Agreement equivalent to those 
affected by the measure found to violate this Agreement.   
 
7.  
 
In considering what benefits to suspend, the complaining Party or Parties should 
first seek to suspend benefits in the same sector or sectors as that affected by the measure 
that the arbitration panel has found to violate this Agreement. The complaining Party or 
- 42 -  
 
 
Parties that consider it is not practicable or effective to suspend benefits in the same 
sector or sectors may suspend benefits in other sectors.  
 
8.  
 
The complaining Party or Parties shall notify the other Party or Parties of the 
benefits which it intends to suspend no later than 60 days before the date on which the 
suspension is due to take effect. Within 15 days from that notification, any of the Parties 
to the dispute may request the original arbitration panel to rule on whether the benefits 
which the complaining Party or Parties intend to suspend are equivalent to those affected 
by the measure found to violate this Agreement, and whether the proposed suspension is 
in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7. The ruling of the arbitration panel shall be given 
within 45 days from that request. Benefits shall not be suspended until the arbitration 
panel has issued its ruling.  
 
9.  
 
The suspension of benefits shall be temporary and shall only be applied by the 
complaining Party or Parties until the measure found to violate this Agreement has been 
withdrawn or amended so as to bring it into conformity with this Agreement, or the 
Parties to the dispute have reached agreement on a resolution of the dispute.  
 
10.  
At the request of any of the Parties to the dispute, the original arbitration panel 
shall rule on the conformity with the final report of any implementing measures adopted 
after the suspension of benefits and, in light of such ruling, whether the suspension of 
benefits should be terminated or modified. The ruling of the arbitration panel shall be 
given within 30 days from the date of that request.  
 
11.  
The rulings provided for in paragraphs 4, 5, 8 and 10 shall be binding.  
 
 
ARTICLE 66  
 
Other Provisions  
 
Any time period mentioned in this Chapter may be extended by mutual agreement 
of the Parties involved.  
 
 
 
X  
 
 
 
FINAL CLAUSES  
 
 
ARTICLE 67  
 
Transparency  
 
1.  
 
The Parties shall publish their laws, or otherwise make publicly available their 
laws, regulations and administrative rulings and judicial decisions of general application 
