 
APPENDIX 4 TO ANNEX VII 
 
NORWAY - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  
 9  10  
services 11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  
                                                 
*  Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
*  Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
operations, including 38  39  40  
                                                 
*  Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
**   Service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 41  42  43  
 
 
  44 
 
ATTACHMENT 
 
NOTES TO MARITIME TRANSPORT 
 
  "Reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions" means, for the purpose of multimodal transport operations, the ability of the multimodal 
transport operator to arrange for the conveyance of its merchandise on a timely basis, including priority over other merchandise which has entered the port at a 
later date.  A "multimodal transport operator" means the person on whose behalf the bill of lading/multimodal transport document, or any other document 
evidencing a contract of multimodal carriage of goods, is issued and who is responsible for the carriage of goods pursuant to the contract of carriage. 
 
1.  "Cabotage" is defined as maritime transport of goods and passengers between ports in Norway, including locations on the continental shelf where 
petroleum is explored or produced. 
 
2.  "Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services" means the ability for international maritime transport 
service suppliers of the other members to undertake locally all activities which are necessary for the supply to their customers of a partially or fully integrated 
transport service, within which the maritime transport constitutes a substantial element.  (This commitment shall however not be construed as limiting in any 
manner the commitments undertaken under the cross-border mode of delivery). 
 
  These activities include, but are not limited to: 
 
  (a)  marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services through direct contact with customers, from quotation to invoicing, these 
services being those operated or offered by the service supplier itself or by service suppliers with which the service seller has established standing business 
arrangements; 
 
  (b)  the acquisition, on their own account or on behalf of their customers (and the resale to their customers) of any transport and related services, 
including inward transport services by any mode, particularly inland waterways, road and rail, necessary for the supply of the integrated service; 
 
  (c)  the preparation of documentation concerning transport documents, customs documents, or other documents related to the origin and character 
of the goods transported; 
 
  (d)  the provision of business information by any means, including computerised information systems and electronic data interchange (subject to 
the provisions of Annex IX); 
 
  (e)  the setting of any business arrangements (including participation in the stock of a company) and the appointment of personnel recruited locally 
(or, in the case of foreign personnel, subject to the horizontal commitment on movement of personnel) with any locally established shipping agency; 
 
    45 
 
  (f)  acting on behalf of the companies, organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. 
 
3.  "Maritime cargo handling services" means activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but not including the direct 
activities of dockers, when this workforce is organised independently of the stevedoring or terminal operator companies.  The activities covered include the 
organisation and supervision of: 
 
  -  the loading/discharging of cargo to/from a ship; 
  -  the lashing/unlashing of cargo; 
  -  the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge. 
 
4.  "Customs clearance services" (alternatively "customs house brokers' services") means activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party 
customs formalities concerning import, export or through transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service provider or a usual 
complement of its main activity. 
 
5.  "Container station and depot services" means activities consisting in storing containers, whether in a port area or inland, with a view to their 
stuffing/stripping, repairing, and making them available for shipments. 
 
6.  "Maritime agency services" means the activities consisting in representing, within a given geographic area, as an agent the business interests of one or 
more shipping lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes: 
 
  -  marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the 
companies; acquisition and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; 
 
  -  acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. 
 
7.  "Freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the 
acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
 
8.  "Other supporting and auxiliary transport services" means freight brokerage services; bill auditing and freight rate information services;  transportation 
document preparation services;  packing and crating and unpacking and de-crating services;  freight inspection, weighing and sampling services; and freight 
receiving and acceptance services (including local pick-up and delivery). 
 
 
   