   
 
APPENDIX 3 TO ANNEX I 
 
OUTWARD PROCESSING 
 
 
1.  For the purpose of Article 13 of Annex I the acquisition of originating status shall not 
be affected by working or processing carried out outside the territory of a Party on materials 
exported from the Party concerned and subsequently re-imported there, provided that: 
 
  (a)  for products listed in the Table below, the total value of non-originating input 
as set out in paragraph 4(a), does not exceed 50 per cent of the ex-works price 
of the final product for which originating status is claimed, and 
 
  (b)  for products other than those listed in the Table below, the total added value as 
set out in paragraph 4(b) does not exceed 10 per cent of the ex-works price of 
the final product for which originating status is claimed. 
 
2.  The materials exported from a Party shall be wholly obtained in the Party concerned 
or having undergone there working or processing going beyond the insufficient operations 
listed in Article 6 of Annex I prior to being exported outside the territory of that Party.  It 
must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that the re-imported goods 
have been obtained by working or processing the exported materials. 
 
3.  For the purpose of paragraph 1(b), where a rule in Appendix 2 to Annex I restricts or 
prohibits the use of certain non-originating materials, such a restriction or prohibition shall 
also apply in respect of working or processing carried out outside the territory of the Party 
concerned.  Furthermore, where a rule in Appendix 2 to Annex I, giving the maximum value 
of all the non-originating materials used is applied in determining the originating status of the 
final product concerned, the total value of the non-originating input as set out in paragraph 
4(a) shall not exceed the percentage given. 
 
4.  For the purpose of: 
 
(a)  paragraphs 1(a) and 3 “total value” shall mean the value of any non-originating 
materials  added  inside  as  well  as  any  materials  added  and  all  other  cost 
accumulated  outside  the  Party  concerned,  including  transport  costs.  Non-
originating materials which have already acquired originating status in a Party 
shall not be considered as non-originating input. 
 
(b)  paragraph 1(b) “total added value” shall mean the value of any materials added 
outside  the  Party  concerned  as  well  as  all  costs  accumulated  outside  the 
territory of the Party concerned, including transport costs. 
 
5.  The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 shall not apply to products which do not fulfil 
the conditions set out in Appendix 2 to Annex I and which can be considered sufficiently 
worked or processed only if the general tolerance given in Article 5(2) of Annex I is applied. - 2 - 
 
 
Table containing the products referred to in paragraph 1(a) - 3 - 
 
 
 
_________________ 