 
 
 
ANNEX VIII 
 
 
REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 36 
 
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of Chapter III and this Annex: 
 
I. 
“financial service” means any service of a financial nature offered by a financial 
service supplier of a Party.  Financial services include the following activities: 
 
   A. 
Insurance and insurance-related services: 
 
1. 
direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(a) 
life; 
 
(b) 
non-life; 
 
2. 
reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
3. 
insurance inter-mediation, such as brokerage and agency;  
 
4. 
services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk 
assessment and claim settlement services. 
 
   B. 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance): 
 
1. 
acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
 
2. 
lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, 
factoring and financing of commercial transaction; 
 
3. 
financial leasing; 
 
4. 
all payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge 
and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts; 
 
5. 
guarantees and commitments; 
 
6. 
trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an 
exchange, in an over-the-counter market or otherwise, the following: 
- 2 - 
 
 
 
(a) 
money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates 
of deposits); 
 
(b) 
foreign exchange; 
 
(c) 
derivative products including, but not limited to, futures and 
options; 
 
(d) 
exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products 
such as swaps, forward rate agreements; 
 
(e) 
transferable securities; 
 
(f) 
other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including 
bullion; 
 
7. 
participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting 
and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of 
services related to such issues; 
 
8. 
money broking; 
 
9. 
asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of 
collective investment management, pension fund management, custodial, 
depository and trust services; 
 
10. 
settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including securities, 
derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
11. 
provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data 
processing and related software by suppliers of other financial services; 
 
12. 
advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on all the 
activities listed in subparagraphs (1) through (11), including credit 
reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, 
advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy. 
 
II. 
“financial service supplier” means any natural or juridical person of a Party 
wishing to supply or supplying financial services but the term "financial service 
supplier" does not include a public entity. 
 
III. 
“public entity” means: 
 
(i) 
a government, a central bank or a monetary authority, of a 
Party, or an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is 
principally engaged in carrying out governmental 
functions or activities for governmental purposes, not 
including an entity principally engaged in supplying 
financial services on commercial terms;  or  
 
- 3 - 
 
 
(ii) 
a private entity, performing functions normally performed 
by a central bank or monetary authority, when exercising 
those functions. 
 
IV. 
For the purpose of scheduling market access commitments in financial services, 
the mode of supply referred to in Article 22 (o) (i) of this Agreement means the supply 
of financial services by non-resident suppliers of financial services into the territory of a 
Party; a “non-resident supplier of financial services” is a financial service supplier of a 
Party which supplies a financial service into the territory of another Party from an 
establishment located in the territory of a GATS Member, regardless of whether such a 
financial service supplier has or has not a commercial presence in the territory of the 
Party in which the financial service is supplied. 
 
 
Article 2 
 
National Treatment 
 
1. 
Under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, each Party shall grant 
to financial service suppliers of another Party established in its territory access to 
payment and clearing systems operated by public entities, and to official funding and 
refinancing facilities available in the normal course of ordinary business. This paragraph 
is not intended to confer access to the Party’s lender of last resort facilities. 
 
2. 
When membership or participation in, or access to, any self-regulatory body, 
securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, or any other organisation or 
association, is required by a Party in order for financial service suppliers of any other 
Party to supply financial services on an equal basis with financial service suppliers of 
the Party, or when the Party provides directly or indirectly such entities, privileges or 
advantages in supplying financial services, the Party shall ensure that such entities 
accord national treatment to financial service suppliers of any other Party resident in the 
territory of the Party. 
 
 
Article 3 
 
Prudential Measures 
 
1. 
Nothing in Chapter III and its Annexes shall be construed to prevent a Party 
from adopting or maintaining reasonable measures for prudential reasons, such as: 
 
(a) 
the protection of investors, depositors, policy-holders, policy-claimants, 
persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service supplier, 
or any similar financial market participants; or 
 
(b) 
the maintenance of the safety, soundness, integrity or financial 
responsibility of financial service suppliers; or  
 
(c) 
ensuring the integrity and stability of a Party's financial system. 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
2. 
These measures shall not be more burdensome than necessary to achieve their 
aim, and shall not constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination against 
financial service suppliers of another Party in comparison to its own like financial 
service suppliers, or a disguised restriction on trade in services.   
 
3. 
Nothing in Chapter III and its Annexes shall be construed to require a Party to 
disclose information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual consumers or any 
confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public entities. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall make its best endeavours to ensure that the Basle Committee’s 
“Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision”, the standards and principles of the 
International Association of Insurance Supervisors and the International Organisation of 
Securities Commissions’ “Objectives and Principles of Securities Regulation” are 
implemented and applied in its territory. 
 
 
Article 4 
 
Recognition 
 
1. 
A Party may recognise prudential measures of any other country in determining 
how the Party's measures relating to financial services shall be applied. Such 
recognition, which may be achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based 
on an agreement or arrangement with the country concerned or may be accorded 
autonomously.  
 
2.  
A Party that is a party to such an agreement or arrangement referred to in 
paragraph 1, whether future or existing, shall afford adequate opportunity for another 
Party to negotiate their accession to such agreements or arrangements, or to negotiate 
comparable ones with it, under circumstances in which there would be equivalent 
regulation, oversight, implementation of such regulation, and, if appropriate, procedures 
concerning the sharing of information between the parties to the agreement or 
arrangement. Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate 
opportunity for another Party to demonstrate that such circumstances exist.   
 
 
Article 5 
 
Data Processing 
 
1. 
Each Party shall permit a financial service supplier of another Party to transfer 
information in electronic or other form, into and out of its territory, for data processing 
where such processing is required in the ordinary course of business of such financial 
service supplier. 
 
2. 
As far as the transfer of data obtained in the course of the supply of financial 
services is concerned, each Party shall adopt or maintain adequate safeguards on the 
protection of the confidentiality and integrity of such records, and to that end Parties 
may have consultations whenever necessary. 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Article restricts the right of a Party to protect personal data, 
personal privacy and the confidentiality of individual records and accounts so long as 
such right is not used to circumvent the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 6 
 
Specific Exceptions 
 
1. 
Nothing in Chapter III and its Annexes shall be construed to prevent a Party, 
including its public entities, from exclusively conducting activities or supplying services 
in its territory forming part of a public retirement plan or statutory system of social 
security.  
 
2. 
Nothing in Chapter III and its Annexes shall be construed to prevent a Party, 
including its public entities, from exclusively conducting activities or supplying services 
in its territory for the account or with the guarantee or using the financial resources of 
the Party, or its public entities. 
 
3. 
If a Party allows any of the activities or services referred to in paragraphs 1 or 2 
to be conducted or supplied by its financial service suppliers in competition with a 
public entity or a financial service supplier, "services" shall include such activities. 
 
4. 
Nothing in Chapter III and its Annexes shall apply to activities conducted or 
services supplied by a central bank or monetary authority or by any other public entity, 
in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate policies. 
 
 
Article 7 
 
Modification of Schedules 
 
1. 
A Party may propose to introduce or amend limitations contained in a specific 
commitment referred to in the financial services section of its Schedule, to the extent 
that such amendments do not decrease the level of commitment undertaken by the Party 
and provided that the proposed amendments do not reduce the opportunities of the 
service suppliers of another Party affected by the amendments compared to the situation 
prevailing immediately before the amendments. 
 
2. 
The amending Party shall notify its intent to amend a commitment to the other 
Parties at least three months before the intended date of implementation of the 
amendment. On receiving such written notification, the other Parties may request 
consultations regarding the proposed amendment.  If agreement is not reached by 
consultations, the matter shall be dealt with in accordance with Chapter IX. 
 
 
 
