    - 5 -  
   
 
   
 
 
II   TRADE IN GOODS  
 
     
     
   
ARTICLE 6  
   
     
    Scope and Coverage  
   
1.   This Chapter applies to:  
   
  (a)   products falling within Chapters 25 through 97 of the Harmonized  
 
Commodity Description and Coding System (HS);  
 
   
 
(b)   products specified in Annex III with due regard to the arrangements  
 
  provided for in that Annex; and  
   
 
(c)   fish and other marine products as provided for in Annex IV.  
 
   
2.   Singapore and each individual EFTA State have concluded agreements on trade in 
agricultural products on a bilateral basis. These agreements form part of the instruments 
establishing a free-trade area between the EFTA States and Singapore.  
 
 
ARTICLE 7  
 
Rules of Origin and Administrative Co-operation  
   
1.   The provisions on rules of origin and administrative co-operation applicable to 
Articles 8, 16 and 17 are set out in Annex I.  
   
2.   The non-preferential rules of origin of a Party shall apply to the other Articles of 
this Chapter not listed under paragraph 1. The arrangements for administrative co- 
operation  set out in Annex I shall apply mutatis mutandis.  
   
3.   Two years after the entry into force of this Agreement the Parties shall meet to 
review Annex I with a view to adapting the system of outward processing to their  
evolving economic needs.  Such review shall take place biannually unless the Parties 
agree otherwise.    - 6 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ARTICLE 8  
   
 
Customs Duties  
 
   
1.   Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall abolish all customs 
duties on imports and exports of products originating in an EFTA State or in Singapore, 
excluding the products listed in Annex V. No new customs duties shall be introduced.  
   
2.   A customs duty includes any duty or charge of any kind imposed in connection 
with the importation or exportation of a product, including any form of surtax or  
surcharge in connection with such importation or exportation.  
   
3.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from imposing at any time on the 
importation or exportation of any product of another Party:  
 
(a)   a charge equivalent to an internal tax, such as excise duties and other 
taxes, levied at the time of importation or exportation, imposed  
consistently with Article 11; or  
 
(b)   a fee or other charge, not applied on an ad valorem basis, provided that it 
is limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered, and does 
not represent an indirect protection for domestic products or a taxation of 
imports or exports for fiscal purposes.  
 
 
ARTICLE 9  
 
Import and Export Restrictions  
 
Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, all import or export prohibitions or 
restrictions on trade in goods between the EFTA States and Singapore, other than  
customs duties and taxes, whether made effective through quotas, import or export  
licenses or other measures, shall be eliminated on all products of each Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10  
 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment  
 
If a Party concludes a preferential agreement with a non-Party under  
Article XXIV of the GATT 1994, it shall, upon request from another Party, afford  
adequate opportunity to negotiate any additional benefits granted therein.  - 7 -  
 
 
ARTICLE 11  
 
National Treatment  
 
The Parties shall apply national treatment in accordance with Article III of the 
GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, which is hereby incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement.  
 
 
ARTICLE 12  
 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures  
   
1.   The Parties shall apply their regulations in sanitary and phytosanitary matters in a 
non-discriminatory manner and shall not introduce any new measures that have the effect 
of unduly obstructing trade.   
   
2.   The principles set out in paragraph 1 shall be applied in accordance with the WTO  
Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, which is hereby 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement.  
 
 
ARTICLE 13  
 
Technical Regulations  
   
1.   The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of technical regulations,  
standards and conformity assessment shall be governed by the WTO Agreement on  
Technical Barriers to Trade.  
   
2.   The Parties shall strengthen their co-operation in the field of technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment with a view to increasing the mutual understanding 
of their respective systems and facilitating access to their respective markets.  To this 
end, they shall in particular co-operate in:  
 
(a)   reinforcing the role of international standards as a basis for technical  
regulations including conformity assessment procedures;  
 
(b)   promoting the accreditation of conformity assessment bodies on the basis 
of relevant ISO/IEC Standards and Guides; and  
 
(c)   promoting the mutual acceptance of conformity assessment results of the 
above bodies which have been recognised under an appropriate 
multilateral agreement between their respective accreditation systems or 
bodies.    - 8 -  
 
 
 
 
3.   The Parties shall, within the context of this Article, expeditiously:  
   
  (a)   broaden the exchange of information; and  
 
 
 
  (b)   give favourable consideration to any written request for consultation. 
   
4.   Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the Parties agree to hold consultations in the 
framework of the Joint Committee to address any matter that may arise from the  
application of specific technical regulations, standards and confo rmity assessment  
procedures and which according to Singapore or one or more of the EFTA States has 
created or is likely to create an obstacle to trade between the Parties, with a view to 
working out an appropriate solution in conformity with the WTO Agreement on  
Technical Barriers to Trade.  
 
 
ARTICLE 14  
 
State Trading Enterprises  
 
The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of state trading enterprises 
shall be governed by Article XVII of the GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the 
Interpretation of Article XVII of the GATT 1994, which are hereby incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement.  
 
 
ARTICLE 15  
 
Subsidies  
 
The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of subsidies shall be governed 
by Articles VI and XVI of the GATT 1994, the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and 
Countervailing Measures and the WTO Agreement on Agriculture.    - 9 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ARTICLE 16  
   
 
Anti-Dumping  
 
   
1.   A Party shall not apply anti-dumping measures as provided for under the WTO 
Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 in relation to products 
originating in another Party.  
   
2.   In order to prevent dumping, the Parties shall undertake the necessary measures as 
provided for under Chapter V.    
 
 
ARTICLE 17  
   
  Emergency Action on Imports of Particular Products  
 
 
1.   Where any product originating in a Party, as a result of the reduction or  
elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, is being imported into the territory 
of another Party in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to constitute a 
substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry of like or 
directly competitive products in the territory of the importing Party, the importing Party 
may take emergency measures to the minimum extent necessary to remedy or prevent the 
injury.  
   
2.   Such measures shall consist in increasing the rate of customs duty on the product 
to a level not to exceed the lesser of:  
   
a)   the most-favoured nation (MFN) rate of duty in effect at the time the 
  action is taken; and  
 
 
b)   the MFN applied rate of duty in effect on the day immediately preceding 
the date of the entry into force of this Agreement.  
   
3.    Emergency measures shall be taken for a period not exceeding one year.  In very 
exceptional circumstances, after review by the Joint Committee, measures may be taken 
up to a total maximum period of three years. A Party taking such measures shall present a 
schedule leading to their progressive elimination. No measures shall be applied to the 
import of a product which has previously been subject to such a measure for a period of, 
at least, five years since the expiry of the measure.  
   
4.   Emergency measures shall only be taken upon clear evidence that increased  
imports have caused or are threatening to cause serious injury pursuant to an investigation 
in accordance with the procedures laid down in the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.    - 10 -  
 
 
 
 
5.   The Party intending to take an emergency measure under this Article shall  
promptly make a notification to the other Parties and the Joint Committee, containing all 
pertinent information which shall include evidence of serious injury or threat thereof 
caused by increased imports, precise description of the product involved, the proposed 
measure, proposed date of introduction and expected duration of the investigation and the 
proposed measure. Any Party that may be affected by the measure shall simultaneously 
be offered compensation in the form of substantially equivalent trade liberalisation in 
relation to the imports from any such Party.  
   
6.   The Joint Committee shall, within 30 days from the date of notification, examine 
the information provided under paragraph 5 in order to facilitate a mutually acceptable 
resolution to the matter.  In the absence of such resolution, the importing Party may adopt 
a measure pursuant to paragraph 2 to remedy the problem, and, in the absence of  
mutually agreed compensation, the Party against whose product the measure is taken may 
take compensatory action. The emergency measure and the compensatory action shall be 
immediately notified to the Joint Committee. The compensatory action shall consist of 
suspension of concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or concessions 
substantially equivalent to the value of the additional duties expected to result from the 
emergency action.  In the selection of the emergency measure and the compensatory  
action, priority must be given to the action which least disturbs the functioning of this 
Agreement.  
   
7.   In critical circumstances, where delay would cause damage which would be  
difficult to repair, a Party may take a provisional emergency measure pursuant to a  
preliminary determination that there is clear evidence that increased imports have caused 
or are threatening to cause serious injury. The Party intending to take such a measure 
shall immediately inform the other Parties and the Joint Committee thereof. The duration 
of any such provisional measure shall be counted as part of the initial period and any 
extension. 
   
8.   Two years after entry into force of this Agreement the Parties shall meet to review  
this Article with a view to determining whether there is a need to maintain an emergency 
action mechanism.  
 
9.    If the Parties decide, after the first review, to maintain such a mechanism, they 
shall thereafter conduct biennial reviews in the Joint Committee.  
 
 
ARTICLE 18  
 
Balance-of-Payments Difficulties  
   
1.   The Parties shall endeavour to avoid the imposition of restrictive measures for 
balance-of-payments purposes.  
   
2.   A Party in serious balance-of-payments difficulties, or under imminent threat  
thereof, may, in accordance with the conditions established under the GATT 1994 and the - 11 -  
 
 
WTO Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments Provisions, adopt trade restrictive  
measures, which shall be of limited duration and non-discriminatory, and may not go 
beyond what is necessary to remedy the balance-of-payments situation. The relevant 
provisions of the GATT 1994 and the WTO Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments 
Provisions are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement.  
   
3.   The Party introducing a measure under this Article shall promptly notify the other 
Parties and the Joint Committee thereof.  
 
 
ARTICLE 19  
 
General Exceptions  
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which 
would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between countries 
where the same conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on international trade,  
nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by 
any Party of measures:  
 
(a)   necessary to protect public morals;  
 
(b)   necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;  
 
(c)   relating to the importations or exportations of gold and silver;   
 
(d)   necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, including those  
relating to customs enforcement, the enforcement of monopolies operated 
under paragraph 4 of Article II and Article XVII of the GATT 1994, the 
protection of patents, trade marks and copyrights, and the  prevention of 
deceptive practices;  
 
(e)   relating to the products of prison labour;  
 
(f)   imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or  
archaeological value;  
 
(g)   relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if such  
measures are made effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic 
production or consumption;  
 
(h)   undertaken in pursuance of obligations under any intergovernmental  
commodity agreement which conforms to criteria submitted to the  
Members of the WTO and not disapproved by them or which is itself so 
submitted and not so disapproved;    - 12 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)   involving restrictions on exports of domestic materials necessary to ensure 
  essential quantities of such materials to a domestic processing industry  
 
during periods when the domestic price of such materials is held below the 
 
world price as part of a governmental stabilization plan; provided that such 
 
  restrictions shall not operate to increase the exports of or the protection 
  afforded to such domestic industry, and shall not depart from the  
 
provisions of the GATT 1994 relating to non discrimination;  
 
   
(j)   essential to the acquisition or distribution of products in general or local 
short supply; provided that any such measures shall be consistent with the 
principle that all Members of the WTO are entitled to an equitable share of 
the international supply of such products, and that any such measures, 
which are inconsistent with the other provisions of this Agreement shall be 
discontinued as soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased to 
exist.  
 
 
ARTICLE 20  
 
Security Exceptions  
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed:  
 
(a)   to require any Party to furnish any information the disclosure of which it 
considers contrary to its essential security interests; or  
 
(b)   to prevent any Party from taking any action which it considers necessary 
for the protection of its essential security interests  
   
(i)   relating to fissionable materials or the materials from which they 
are derived;  
 
(ii)   relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of war 
and to such traffic in other goods and materials as is carried on  
directly or indirectly for the purpose of supplying a military  
establishment;  
 
(iii)   taken in time of war or other emergency in international relations; 
or  
 
(c)   to prevent any Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations 
under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international  
peace and security.  