83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 8 
NEW CHAPTER 17 (ENVIRONMENT AND TRADE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 17 
ENVIRONMENT AND TRADE 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Context and Objectives 
 
1. 
Recalling the Stockholm Declaration on the Human Environment of 1972, the Rio 
Declaration on Environment and Development of 1992, Agenda 21 of 1992, the 
Johannesburg Plan of Implementation on Sustainable Development of 2002, the 
Rio+20 Outcome Document “The Future We Want” of 2012, and the Transforming our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Parties acknowledge that 
economic development, social development and environmental protection are 
interdependent and mutually supportive components of sustainable development.  
 
2. 
The Parties reaffirm their commitments to promoting economic development in 
such a way as to contribute to the objective of sustainable development. 
 
3. 
The Parties agree that environmental standards should not be used for trade 
protectionist purposes. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Levels of Protection 
 
1. 
The Parties reaffirm each Party’s sovereign right to establish its own levels of 
environmental protection and its own environmental development priorities, and adopt 
or modify its environmental laws and policies.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall seek to ensure that those laws and policies provide for and 
encourage high levels of environmental protection, and shall strive to implement these 
laws and policies effectively. Each Party shall also strive to continue to improve its 
respective levels of environmental protection.  
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Multilateral Environmental Agreements 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs) play an 
important role globally and domestically in protecting the environment. The Parties 
further recognise that this Chapter can contribute to realising the goals of such 
agreements.  
 
2. 
The Parties strive to consult and cooperate as appropriate with respect to MEAs 
to which both Parties are party, on trade-related environmental issues of mutual 
interest.     
85 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Enforcement of Environmental Measures Including Laws and Regulations 
 
1. 
A Party shall not fail to effectively enforce its environmental measures including 
laws and regulations, through a sustained or recurring course of action or inaction, in 
a manner affecting trade or investment between the Parties.   
  
2. 
The Parties recognise that it is inappropriate to encourage trade or investment by 
weakening or reducing the protections afforded in its environmental laws, regulations, 
policies and practices. Accordingly, neither Party shall waive or otherwise derogate 
from such laws, regulations, policies and practices in a manner that weakens or 
reduces the protections afforded in those laws, regulations, policies and practices. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to empower a Party’s authorities to 
undertake environmental law enforcement activities in the territory of the other Party.  
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Bilateral Cooperation 
 
Recognising the importance of cooperation on environmental issues in achieving the 
goals of sustainable development, the Parties commit to implementing cooperation 
through existing bilateral agreements, such as the Memorandum of Understanding on 
Environmental Cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and Water 
Resources of the Republic of Singapore and the Ministry of Ecology and Environment 
of the People’s Republic of China signed on 12 November 2018, and to enhancing 
cooperation in areas of common interest as appropriate. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Institutional Arrangement 
 
Each Party shall designate an office within its administration which shall serve as a 
contact point with the other Party for the purposes of promoting communication for the 
implementation of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 12 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter 
arising under this Chapter.  
 
 
 
 
 
