73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 6 
NEW CHAPTER 15 (ELECTRONIC COMMERCE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 15 
ELECTRONIC COMMERCE 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) digital certificates are electronic documents or files that are issued or 
otherwise linked to a party to an electronic communication or transaction for 
the purpose of establishing the party’s identity; 
 
(b) electronic authentication means the process or act of providing 
authenticity and reliability verification for the parties involved in electronic 
signature to ensure the integrity and security of the electronic 
communication or transaction; 
 
(c) personal information means any information, including data, about an 
identified or identifiable individual; and 
 
(d) trade administration documents means forms issued or controlled by a 
Party that must be completed by or for an importer or exporter in connection 
with the import or export of goods. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
General Provisions 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the economic growth and opportunities provided by 
electronic commerce and the importance of frameworks that promote consumer 
confidence in electronic commerce and of avoiding unnecessary barriers to its use 
and development. 
 
2. 
This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party that affect 
trade by electronic means. 
 
3. 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and other Chapters, the 
other Chapters shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Domestic Regulatory Frameworks 
 
75 
 
1. 
Each Party shall maintain domestic legal frameworks governing electronic 
transactions based on the UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Commerce 1996 and 
taking into account, as appropriate, other relevant international standards. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall: 
 
(a) minimise the regulatory burden on electronic commerce; and 
 
(b) ensure that regulatory frameworks support industry-led development of 
electronic commerce. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Electronic Authentication and Electronic Signatures  
 
1. 
Except in circumstances otherwise provided for under its laws and regulations, a 
Party shall not deny the legal validity of a signature solely on the basis that the 
signature is in electronic form.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall maintain or adopt, as soon as practicable, measures for 
electronic authentication that: 
 
(a) permit participants in electronic transactions to determine the appropriate 
authentication technologies for their electronic transactions; 
 
(b) permit participants in electronic transactions to have the opportunity to prove 
before judicial or administrative authorities that their electronic transactions 
comply with the Party’s domestic laws and regulations with respect to 
authentication. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, a Party may require that, for a particular category 
of transactions, the method of authentication meets certain performance standards or 
is certified by an authority accredited in accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
4. 
The Parties shall work towards the mutual recognition of digital certificates and 
electronic signatures. 
 
5. 
The Parties shall encourage the use of interoperable electronic authentication 
and digital certificates. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Customs Duties 
 
1. 
Each Party shall maintain its practice of not imposing customs duties on 
electronic transmissions between the Parties, consistent with the WTO Ministerial 
Decision of 18 December 2017 in relation to the Work Programme on Electronic 
Commerce (WT/MIN(17)/65). 
 
76 
 
2. 
Each Party reserves the right to adjust its practice referred to in paragraph 1 in 
accordance with any further WTO Ministerial Decisions in relation to the Work 
Programme on Electronic Commerce. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Transparency 
 
1. 
Each Party shall promptly publish, or otherwise promptly make publicly available 
where publication is not practicable, all relevant measures of general application which 
pertain to, or affect, the operation of this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by the other Party for specific 
information on any of its measures of general application within the meaning of 
paragraph 1. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Online Consumer Protection 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of adopting and maintaining transparent 
and effective consumer protection measures for electronic commerce as well as 
measures conducive to the development of consumer confidence. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall, to the extent possible, provide protection for consumers using 
electronic commerce that affords a similar level of protection to that provided for 
consumers of other forms of commerce under its relevant laws, regulations and 
policies. 
 
3. 
The Parties recognise the importance of cooperation between their respective 
competent authorities in charge of consumer protection on activities related to 
electronic commerce in order to enhance consumer protection. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Personal Information Protection 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the economic and social benefits of protecting the personal 
information of users of electronic commerce and the contribution that this makes to 
enhancing consumer confidence in electronic commerce. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures that protect the personal 
information of users of electronic commerce. In the development of such measures, 
each Party shall, to the extent possible, take into account international standards and 
the criteria of relevant international organisations, to promote mutual compatibility 
between their regimes.1  
                                                           
1 For greater certainty, a Party may comply with the obligation in this paragraph by adopting or 
maintaining measures such as comprehensive privacy, personal information or personal data 
protection laws, sector-specific laws covering privacy, or laws that provide for the enforcement of 
voluntary undertakings by enterprises relating to privacy. 
77 
 
 
3. 
Recognising that the Parties may take different legal approaches to protecting 
online personal information, the Parties shall endeavour to exchange information on 
their respective regimes to promote compatibility between them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Paperless Trading 
 
1. 
Each Party shall endeavour to make trade administration documents available to 
the public in electronic form. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall endeavour to accept trade administration documents submitted 
electronically as the legal equivalent of the paper version of those documents. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Cooperation on Electronic Commerce 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to work together to assist small and medium-sized enterprises 
to overcome obstacles to the use of electronic commerce. 
 
2. 
The Parties agree to share information and experience on issues related to 
electronic commerce, including, inter alia, laws and regulations, rules and standards, 
and best practices. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall encourage cooperation in research and training activities to 
enhance the development of electronic commerce. 
 
4. 
The Parties shall encourage business exchanges, cooperative activities and joint 
electronic commerce projects. 
 
5. 
The Parties shall actively participate in regional and multilateral fora to promote 
the development of electronic commerce in a cooperative manner. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 12 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter 
arising under this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
