78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 7 
NEW CHAPTER 16 (COMPETITION) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 16 
COMPETITION 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
anticompetitive business conduct means business conduct or 
transactions that adversely affect competition in the territory of a Party, such 
as: 
 
(i) 
agreements between enterprises, decisions by associations of 
enterprises and concerted practices, which have as their object or 
effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in the 
territory of either Party as a whole or in a substantial part thereof; 
 
(ii) 
any abuse by one or more enterprises of a dominant position in the 
territory of either Party as a whole or in a substantial part thereof; or 
 
(iii) concentrations between enterprises, which significantly impede 
effective competition, in particular as a result of the creation or 
strengthening of a dominant position in the territory of either Party as 
a whole or in a substantial part thereof; and 
 
(b) 
competition laws means: 
 
(i) 
for China: 
 
(A) the Antimonopoly Law and its implementing regulations and 
amendments; and  
 
(ii) 
for Singapore:  
 
(A) the Competition Act (Chapter 50B) and its implementing 
regulations and amendments;  
 
(B) Part VII “Competition” of the Electricity Act (Chapter 89A), and 
its amendments;  
 
(C) Part IX “Competition” of the Gas Act (Chapter 116A), and its 
amendments;  
 
(D) the Airport Competition Code pursuant to the Civil Aviation 
Authority of Singapore Act (Chapter 41), and its amendments;  
80 
 
 
(E) the Code of Practice for Market Conduct pursuant to the Media 
Development Authority of Singapore Act (Chapter 172), and its 
amendments; and 
 
(F) 
the Code of Practice for Competition in the Provision of 
Telecommunications 
Services 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Telecommunications Act (Chapter 323), and its amendments.  
 
Where any of the competition laws of either Party as stated above is 
subsequently superseded by a new law, the new law shall be considered a 
“competition law” for the purposes of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Objectives 
 
The Parties understand that proscribing anticompetitive business conduct, 
implementing competition policies and cooperating on competition issues contribute 
to preventing the benefits of trade liberalisation from being undermined and to 
promoting economic efficiency and consumer welfare. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Competition Laws and Authorities 
 
1. 
Each Party shall maintain competition laws that promote and protect the 
competitive process in its market by proscribing anticompetitive business practices.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall maintain an authority or authorities responsible for the 
enforcement of its competition laws.  
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Principles in Law Enforcement 
 
1. 
Each Party shall be consistent with the principles of transparency, non-
discrimination and procedural fairness in competition law enforcement.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall apply its competition laws to all entities engaged in commercial 
activities, subject to exclusions or exemptions provided for under its laws. Such 
exclusions or exemptions should be transparent and be based on public policy or 
public interest grounds.  
 
3. 
Each Party shall apply and enforce its competition laws in a manner, which 
does not, in like circumstances, discriminate on the basis of nationality. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall ensure that before it imposes a sanction, or additional 
restrictive condition or any other remedy, whichever is applicable under the Party’s 
81 
 
domestic laws, against any person for violating its competition laws, it affords that 
person a reasonable opportunity to present opinion or evidence in its defence.  
 
5. 
Each Party shall provide any person that is subject to the imposition of a 
sanction, or additional restrictive condition or any other remedy, whichever is 
applicable under the Party’s domestic laws, for violation of its competition laws, with 
the opportunity to seek review of the sanction, or additional restrictive condition or any 
other remedy under that Party's laws. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Transparency 
 
1. 
Each Party shall make public its competition laws, including procedural rules 
for investigation. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that a final decision by a competition authority finding 
a violation of its competition laws is in writing, and sets out relevant findings of fact 
and the legal basis for the decision. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall make public the grounds for any final decision or order to 
impose a sanction, or additional restrictive condition or any other remedy, whichever 
is applicable under the Party’s domestic laws, and any appeal therefrom, subject to 
that Party’s:  
 
(a) 
(i)     domestic laws and regulations; 
(ii)  need to safeguard confidential information; or  
(iii) need to safeguard information on grounds of public policy or public 
interest; and 
 
(b) 
redactions of the final decision or order on the grounds in (a)(i) to (iii) above.  
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Cooperation in Law Enforcement 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of cooperation and coordination between 
the respective competition authorities to promote effective competition law 
enforcement. Accordingly, each Party shall, on a best endeavour basis, cooperate 
through notification, consultation, exchange of information and technical cooperation. 
 
2. 
The Parties agree to cooperate in a manner compatible with their respective 
laws, regulations and important interests, and within their reasonably available 
resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Consultation 
 
In order to foster understanding between the Parties, or to address specific matters 
that arise under this Chapter, a Party shall, on request of the other Party (the 
“requesting Party”), enter into consultations with the requesting Party. In its request, 
the requesting Party shall indicate, if relevant, how the matter affects trade or 
investment between the Parties. The Party addressed shall accord full and 
sympathetic consideration to the concerns of the requesting Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Technical Cooperation 
 
The Parties may promote technical cooperation, including exchange of experiences, 
capacity-building 
through 
training 
programmes, 
workshops 
and 
research 
collaborations for the purpose of enhancing each Party's capacity related to 
competition policy and law enforcement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Independence of Competition Law Enforcement 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure independence in decision-making by its authority or 
authorities in relation to enforcement of competition laws. 
 
2. 
The obligations under this Chapter shall not prejudice the independence of 
each Party in enforcing its respective competition laws. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 12 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter 
arising under this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
