6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
NEW CHAPTER 4 (RULES OF ORIGIN) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 4 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
aquaculture refers to the farming of aquatic organisms including fish, 
molluscs, crustaceans, other aquatic invertebrates and aquatic plants, 
from seedstock such as eggs, fry, fingerlings and larvae, by intervention 
in the rearing or growth processes to enhance production, such as 
regular stocking, feeding, protection from predators, etc; 
 
(b) 
fungible products and materials refers to goods or materials which are 
interchangeable for commercial purposes, whose properties are 
essentially identical, and between which it is impractical to differentiate 
by a mere visual examination; 
 
(c) 
generally accepted accounting principles refers to the recognised 
accounting standards of a Party with respect to the recording of 
revenues, expenses, costs, assets and liabilities, the disclosure of 
information and the preparation of financial statements.  Those 
standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as 
well as detailed standards, practices and procedures; 
 
(d) 
material refers to ingredients, parts, components, subassembly and/or 
goods that were physically incorporated into another good or were 
subject to a process in the production of another good; 
 
(e) 
non-originating material refers to a material that has not satisfied the 
requirements of this Chapter; 
 
(f) 
originating materials or originating goods refers to materials or goods 
which qualify as originating in accordance with this Chapter; 
 
(g) 
producer refers to a person who engages in the production of a good; 
 
(h) 
Product Specific Rules are rules that specify that the materials have 
undergone a change in tariff classification, or undergone a specific 
manufacturing or processing operation, or satisfy an ad valorem 
criterion, or a combination of any of these criteria; 
 
(i) 
production refers to methods of obtaining goods including growing, 
mining, harvesting, raising, breeding, extracting, gathering, collecting, 
8 
 
capturing, fishing, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, producing, 
processing or assembling a good; and 
 
(j) 
used means spent or consumed in the production of products. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Origin Criteria 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, products imported by a Party shall be deemed to 
be originating and eligible for preferential concessions if they conform to the origin 
requirements under any one of the following: 
  
(a)    products which are wholly obtained or produced as set out and defined 
in Article 3 (Wholly Obtained Products); 
  
(b)   products which are produced entirely in one or both Parties, exclusively 
from originating materials; or 
 
(c)    products which are produced from non-originating materials, provided 
that said products are eligible under Article 4 (Regional Value Content), 
or Article 6 (Product Specific Rules); 
 
and satisfy all other applicable requirements of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Wholly Obtained Products 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following shall be considered as being wholly 
produced or obtained in a Party: 
 
(a) 
plant1 and plant products harvested, picked or gathered there; 
 
(b) 
live animals2 born and raised there; 
 
(c) 
products3 obtained from live animals referred to in sub-paragraph (b) 
above; 
 
(d) 
products obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, aquaculture, gathering 
or capturing conducted there; 
 
                                                           
1 Plant referred to in sub-paragraph (a) covers all plant life, including fruit, flowers, vegetables, trees, 
seaweed, fungi and live plants. 
2 Animals referred to in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) covers all animal life, including mammals, birds, 
fish, crustaceans, molluscs, reptiles, bacteria and viruses. 
3 Products referred to in sub-paragraph (c) covers those obtained from live animals without further 
processing, including milk, eggs, natural honey, hair, wool, semen and dung. 
9 
 
(e) 
minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not included in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (d), extracted or taken from its soil, waters, seabed or 
beneath their seabed; 
 
(f) 
products taken from the waters, seabed or beneath the seabed outside 
the territorial waters of that Party, provided that that Party has the rights 
to exploit such waters, seabed and beneath the seabed in accordance 
with international law; 
 
(g) 
products of sea fishing and other marine products taken from the high 
seas by vessels registered with a Party or entitled to fly the flag of that 
Party; 
 
(h) 
products processed and/or made on board factory ships registered with 
a Party or entitled to fly the flag of that Party, exclusively from products 
referred to in sub-paragraph (g) above; 
 
(i) 
articles collected in the territory of that Party that can no longer perform 
their original purpose nor are capable of being restored or repaired and 
are fit only for disposal or recovery of raw materials, or for recycling 
purposes4; 
 
(j) 
goods obtained or produced in a Party solely from products referred to 
in sub-paragraphs (a) to (i) above. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Regional Value Content 
 
1. 
The regional value content of a good shall be calculated on the basis of the 
following method: 
 
V – VNM 
RVC =   –––––––––––   x 100% 
V 
where: 
 
RVC means the regional value content expressed as a percentage; 
 
V 
means the value of the good, as defined in the Agreement on 
Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and 
Trade 1994, adjusted on a Free On Board (FOB) basis; and 
 
 
                                                           
4 This would cover all scrap and waste including scrap and waste resulting from manufacturing or 
processing operations or consumption in the same country, scrap machinery, discarded packaging 
and all products that can no longer perform the purpose for which they were produced and are fit 
only for discarding or for the recovery of raw materials.  Such manufacturing or processing operations 
shall include all types of processing, not only industrial or chemical but also mining, agriculture, 
construction, refining, incineration and sewage treatment operations. 
10 
 
VNM shall be: 
 
(i) 
the Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) value at the time of 
importation of the materials; or 
 
(ii) 
the earliest ascertained price paid for the materials of 
undetermined origin in the territory of the Party where the working 
or processing takes place. 
 
2. 
The percentage of regional value content shall not be less than 40%, except for 
the goods listed in Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules), which shall comply with the 
Product Specific Rules as provided under Article 6 (Product Specific Rules). 
 
3. 
The value of the non-originating materials used by the producer in the 
production of a good shall not include, for purposes of calculating the regional value 
content of the good, pursuant to paragraph 1, the value of non-originating materials 
used to produce originating materials that are subsequently used in the production of 
the good. 
 
4. 
When the producer of the good acquires a non-originating material within the 
Party’s territory where it is located, the value of such material shall not include freight, 
insurance, packing costs, and any other costs incurred in transporting the material 
from the supplier’s warehouse to the producer’s location. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Cumulative Rule of Origin 
 
Where originating goods or originating materials of a Party are incorporated into a 
good in the other Party's territory, the goods or materials so incorporated shall be 
regarded to be originating in the latter's territory. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Product Specific Rules 
 
Products which have undergone sufficient transformation in a Party shall be treated 
as originating goods of that Party.  Products which satisfy the Product Specific Rules 
provided for in Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules) shall be considered as goods to which 
sufficient transformation has been carried out in a Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
De Minimis 
 
A good that does not meet tariff classification change requirements, pursuant to the 
provisions of Annex 2 (Product Specific Rules), shall nonetheless be considered to be 
an originating good if: 
 
11 
 
(a) 
the value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the 
product, which do not undergo the applicable change in tariff 
classification or fulfil any other condition set out in Annex 2 (Product 
Specific Rules), does not exceed 10% of the FOB value of the product; 
and 
 
(b) 
the product meets all other applicable requirements provided in this 
Chapter for qualifying as an originating product. 
 
The value of such non-originating materials shall, however, be included in calculating 
the value of the non-originating materials for any applicable qualifying value content 
requirement for the product. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Minimal Operations and Processes 
 
1. 
The following operations undertaken by themselves shall be considered as 
insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products: 
 
(a) 
preserving operations to ensure that the products remain in good 
condition during transport and storage; 
 
(b) 
breaking-up and assembly of packages; 
 
(c) 
washing, cleaning, removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings; 
 
(d) 
ironing or pressing of textiles; 
 
(e) 
simple painting and polishing operations; 
 
(f) 
husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing, and glazing of cereals and 
rice; 
 
(g) 
operations to color sugar or form sugar lumps; 
 
(h) 
peeling, stoning and shelling, of fruits, nuts and vegetables; 
 
(i) 
sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting; 
 
(j) 
sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading or matching (including the 
making-up of sets of articles); 
 
(k) 
simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on 
cards or boards and all other simple packaging operations; 
 
(l) 
affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs 
on products or their packaging; 
 
(m) 
simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds; 
12 
 
 
(n) 
simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article, or 
disassembly of products into parts; 
 
(o) 
operations whose sole purpose is to ease port handling; 
 
(p) 
a combination of two or more operations specified in sub-paragraphs (a) 
to (o); and 
 
(q) 
slaughter of animals. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Article: 
 
(a) 
simple generally describes activities which need neither special skills 
nor special machines, apparatus or equipment specially produced or 
installed for carrying out the activity; and 
 
(b) 
simple mixing generally describes activities which need neither special 
skills nor machines, apparatus or equipment especially produced or 
installed for carrying out the activity.  However, simple mixing does not 
include chemical reaction. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
Direct Consignment 
 
1. 
Preferential tariff treatment provided for in this Agreement shall be applied to 
goods which satisfy the requirements of this Chapter and are directly consigned 
between the Parties. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of paragraph 1, the following shall be considered as 
consigned directly from the exporting Party to the importing Party: 
 
(a) 
goods that are transported without passing through the territory of a non-
Party; 
 
(b) 
goods whose transport involves transit through one or more non-Parties 
with or without trans-shipment or temporary storage of up to three (3) 
months in such non-Parties provided that: 
 
(i) 
the goods do not enter into trade or commerce there; 
 
(ii) 
the goods do not undergo any operation there other than unloading 
and reloading, or any operation required to keep them in good 
condition; and 
 
(iii) the transit entry is justified for geographical reasons or by 
considerations related exclusively to transport requirements. 
 
13 
 
3. 
Compliance with the provisions set out in paragraph 2(b) shall be authenticated 
by the importer presenting to the customs administration of the importing Party either 
with customs documents of the non-Parties or with any other documents provided to 
the customs administration of the importing Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
Treatment of Packing 
 
1. 
Where, for the purposes of assessing customs duties, a Party treats products 
separately from their packing, it may also, in respect of its imports consigned from the 
other Party, determine separately the origin of such packing. 
 
2. 
Where paragraph 1 is not applied, packing shall be considered as forming a 
whole with the products and no part of any packing required for their transport or 
storage shall be considered as having been imported from a non-Party when 
determining the origin of the products as a whole. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
The origin of accessories, spare parts, tools and instructional or other information 
materials presented with the goods therewith shall be neglected in determining the 
origin of the goods, provided that such accessories, spare parts, tools and information 
materials are classified and collected customs duties with the goods by the importing 
Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
Fungible Products and Materials 
 
In determining whether a good is an originating good, any interchangeable goods or 
materials shall be distinguished by: 
 
(a) physical separation of the goods or materials; or 
 
(b) an inventory management method recognised in the generally accepted 
accounting principles of the exporting Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
Neutral Elements 
 
Unless otherwise provided, for the purpose of determining the origin of goods, the 
origin of the power and fuel, plant and equipment, or machines and tools used to obtain 
the goods, or the materials used in its manufacture which do not remain in the goods 
or form part of the goods, shall not be taken into account. 
 
 
14 
 
ARTICLE 14 
Electronic Origin Data Exchange System 
 
The Parties will develop an Electronic Origin Data Exchange System to ensure the 
effective and efficient implementation of this Chapter in a manner jointly determined 
by the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
Certificate of Origin 
 
1. 
For the purpose of obtaining preferential tariff treatment in the other Party, a 
Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the authorised body of the exporting Party. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall inform the customs administration of the other Party of the 
names and addresses of the authorised bodies issuing the Certificate of Origin and 
shall provide specimen impressions of official seals used by such authorised bodies.  
Any change in names, addresses or official seals shall be promptly notified to the other 
Party. 
 
3. 
The Certificate of Origin shall be issued before or at the time of exportation 
whenever the goods to be exported can be considered originating in that Party subject 
to this Chapter.  The exporter or producer shall submit a written application for the 
Certificate of Origin together with appropriate supporting documents proving that the 
products to be exported qualify for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin. 
 
4. 
The Certificate of Origin, based on the formats as set out in Annex 3 (Formats 
of Certificates of Origin), shall be completed in the English language and duly signed 
and stamped, covering one or more goods under one consignment.  A Certificate of 
Origin is applicable to a single importation of a good into the Party’s territory and shall 
remain valid for twelve (12) months from the date of issue. 
 
5. 
In cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued before or at the time 
of exportation due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid causes, or no later 
than three (3) days after the date of shipment, the Certificate of Origin may be issued 
retrospectively but not later than one (1) year from the date of shipment, bearing the 
words “ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY”. 
 
6. 
In cases of theft, loss or accidental destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the 
exporter or producer may, within validity of the original Certificate of Origin, make a 
written request to the authorised bodies of the exporting Party to issue a certified copy, 
provided that the exporter or producer makes sure that the original copy previously 
issued has not been used.  The certified copy shall bear the words “CERTIFIED TRUE 
COPY of the original Certificate of Origin number ___ dated ___”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
 
ARTICLE 16 
Claims for Preferential Treatment 
 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, each Party’s customs 
administration shall require an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good 
to: 
 
(a) 
make a written declaration before or at the time of importation, in 
accordance with its laws and regulations, that the good qualifies as an 
originating good; 
 
(b) 
have a Certificate of Origin in his possession; 
 
(c) 
submit, if required by the importing customs administration, the original 
Certificate of Origin 5  and such other documentation relating to the 
importation of the good; and 
 
(d) 
promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any duties owed, where 
the importer has reason to believe that a Certificate of Origin, on which 
a declaration was based, contains information that is not correct. 
 
2. 
A Party may deny preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement to an 
imported good if the importer fails to comply with any requirement of this Chapter. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall provide that: 
 
(a) 
where the origin of the product is not in doubt, the discovery of minor 
discrepancies between the statements made in the Certificate of Origin 
and those made in the documents submitted to the customs 
administration of the importing Party for the purpose of carrying out the 
formalities for importing the products, shall not ipso facto invalidate the 
Certificate of Origin, if it does in fact correspond to the same products 
presented; and 
 
(b) 
for multiple items declared under the same Certificate of Origin, a 
problem encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect or delay 
the granting of preferential tariff treatment and customs clearance of the 
remaining items listed in the Certificate of Origin. 
 
4. 
Where a Certificate of Origin is not provided at the time of importation of a good, 
the importing Party, upon the request of the importer, may impose the applied non-
preferential import customs duty or payment of a deposit equivalent to the full duties 
on that good as requested.  In such a case, the importer will be entitled to a refund of 
any excess import customs duty or deposit paid if the payment refund claim is made 
within one (1) year from the date the good was imported, provided that the 
requirements in paragraph 1 are fulfilled. 
                                                           
5  If all the information pertaining to a Certificate of Origin is exchanged between the customs 
administrations of both Parties through the Electronic Origin Data Exchange System as set out in Article 
14 (Electronic Origin Data Exchange System), the customs administration of each Party may not require 
the importer to submit the original Certificate of Origin on importation. 
16 
 
ARTICLE 17 
Verification of Origin 
 
1. 
A Certificate of Origin is the basis for eligibility of preferential tariff treatment for 
goods imported from the exporting Party.  In cases where verification is required, the 
customs administration of the importing Party may conduct verification by means of: 
 
(a) 
written requests for additional information from the importer; 
 
(b) 
written requests for additional information from the exporter or producer 
in the territory of the exporting Party; 
 
(c) 
requests that the customs administration of the exporting Party verify the 
origin of a good; or 
 
(d) 
such other procedures as the customs administrations of the Parties may 
jointly decide. 
 
2. 
A verification process under paragraph 1 shall only be initiated when there are 
reasonable grounds to doubt the accuracy or authenticity of the origin of the goods 
concerned, and when the customs duty is sufficiently material to warrant the request. 
 
3. 
A verification request to the customs administration of the exporting Party shall 
specify the reasons, and any documents and information obtained justifying the 
verification activities shall be forwarded to the customs administration of the requested 
Party. 
 
4. 
To the extent allowed by its domestic laws and practices, the customs 
administration of the exporting Party shall fully cooperate in any action to verify 
eligibility. 
 
5. 
The customs administration of the Party conducting the verification shall 
promptly inform the customs administration of the other Party of the outcome of the 
verification conducted. 
 
 
ARTICLE 18 
Waiver of Certificate of Origin 
 
Each Party shall provide that a Certificate of Origin shall not be required for: 
 
(a) 
a commercial importation of a good whose value does not exceed 
US$600 or its equivalent amount in the Party's currency, or such higher 
amount as it may establish, except that it may require that the invoice 
accompanying the importation include a statement certifying that the 
good qualifies as an originating good; or 
 
(b) 
a non-commercial importation of a good whose value does not exceed 
US$600 or its equivalent amount in the Party's currency, or such higher 
amount as it may establish,  
17 
 
 
provided that the importation does not form part of a series of importations that may 
reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the purpose of 
avoiding the certification requirements. 
 
 
ARTICLE 19 
Record Keeping Requirement 
 
1. 
Each Party shall require its producers, exporters and importers to retain origin 
documents for three (3) years. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that its authorised bodies retain copies of Certificates 
of Origin and other documentary evidence of origin for three (3) years. 
 
3. 
The records to be maintained may include electronic records and shall be 
maintained in accordance with the domestic laws and practices of each Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
Confidentiality 
 
1. 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to furnish or 
allow access to confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede law 
enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice 
the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or private. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall maintain, in accordance with its domestic laws, the 
confidentiality of information collected pursuant to this Chapter, including information 
obtained from the verification of Certificates of Origin, and shall protect that information 
from disclosure that could prejudice the competitive position of the persons providing 
the information. 
 
3. 
Pursuant to Article 19 (Record Keeping Requirement), any information 
communicated between the Parties shall be treated as confidential and used for the 
validation of Certificates of Origin only. 
 
 
ARTICLE 21 
Third Party Invoicing 
 
The importing Party shall accept Certificates of Origin in cases where the sales invoice 
is issued either by a company located in a non-Party or by an exporter in the exporting 
Party for the account of the said company, provided that the product meets the 
requirements of this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
ARTICLE 22 
Committee on Rules of Origin 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Rules of Origin under the FTA 
Joint Committee, composed of government representatives of each Party. 
 
2. 
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the Committee on Rules of Origin shall 
meet in regular session at least once a year, preferably together with the FTA Joint 
Committee meetings set out in paragraph 4 of Article 111 (Implementation and 
Review), to consider any matter arising under this Chapter to ensure that this Chapter 
is administered effectively, uniformly and consistently with the spirit and objectives of 
this Agreement, and shall cooperate in the administration of this Chapter, including but 
not limited to the following: 
 
(a) 
keeping the Annexes of this Chapter updated on the basis of the 
transposition of the nomenclature established under the Harmonized 
Commodity Description and Coding System developed by the World 
Customs Organization; 
 
(b) 
consulting to discuss possible amendments or modifications to this 
Chapter, taking into account developments in technology, production 
processes or other related matters, to be submitted to the FTA Joint 
Committee for approval; 
 
(c) 
addressing technical issues related to the implementation of this Chapter 
and its Annexes, such as change in tariff classification, regional value 
content calculation, etc.; and 
 
(d) 
addressing technical or implementation aspects of the Electronic Origin 
Data Exchange System. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
