67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 5 
NEW CHAPTER 11 (ECONOMIC COOPERATION) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 11 
ECONOMIC COOPERATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
Objectives 
 
1. 
The objectives of this Chapter are: 
 
(a) 
to further strengthen bilateral cooperation in view of recent regional and 
international strategic developments; 
 
(b) 
to reaffirm existing arrangements already in place for bilateral cooperation; 
and 
 
(c) 
to explore new areas of collaboration between the Parties. 
 
2. 
The areas of cooperation may include, but are not limited to: 
 
(a) 
Cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative;  
 
(b) 
Trade and Investment Promotion; 
 
(c) 
Participation in China’s Regional Development; 
 
(e) 
Tourism Cooperation; 
 
(e) 
Human Resource Development; 
 
(f) 
Facilitation of “Go Global” Efforts of Chinese Enterprises. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
Cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative 
 
1. 
Recognising that the Belt and Road Initiative is important for deepening all 
round cooperation between the Parties, realising the goal of common development, 
developing and strengthening connectivity and promoting regional peace and 
development, the Parties will jointly promote cooperation on the Belt and Road 
Initiative and explore the converging points between the Belt and Road Initiative and 
each Party’s national development priorities, thereby enhancing win-win cooperation 
and co-prosperity. 
69 
 
 
2. 
Guided by the principle that “the Belt and Road Initiative be jointly implemented 
through consultation to meet the interests of all”, the Parties will carry out cooperation 
in areas such as coordination enhancement, connectivity enhancement, trade 
connectivity, financial integration and people-to-people ties. The Parties shall 
strengthen connectivity and mutual support, and draw on each Party’s experience. 
 
3. 
The Parties will strengthen cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, 
including in the three platforms of infrastructure connectivity, financial connectivity and 
third party cooperation. 
 
4. 
The Parties will jointly promote the connectivity of the Belt and Road through 
the existing bilateral cooperation mechanisms, such as the China-Singapore Joint 
Council for Bilateral Cooperation (JCBC), and multilateral mechanisms participated by 
the Parties to explore new opportunities of cooperation and coordinate, where 
applicable, on major issues of cooperation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
Trade and Investment Promotion 
 
1. 
Recognising that strong trade and investment flows are important for the 
development of their respective economies, the Parties shall explore strengthening 
cooperation in trade and investment promotion. 
 
2. 
To achieve the above, the Parties shall encourage and facilitate activities 
which include the following: 
 
(a) 
policy dialogue to promote and expand trade and investment between 
the Parties; 
 
(b) 
exchanging views on important economic and trade issues, and holding 
consultations to solve common problems relating to bilateral trade and 
investment; 
 
(c) 
jointly identifying priority sectors with strong cooperation potential based 
on the Parties’ complementary strengths, and exploring ways of 
collaboration in the identified sectors; 
 
(d) 
supporting 
exchanges 
and 
dialogues 
between 
the 
business 
communities of the Parties; and 
 
(e) 
reinforcing economic cooperation between the Parties, including in third 
countries. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall guide and co-ordinate cooperation in trade and investment 
promotion through the existing mechanisms of the national-level JCBC, the Investment 
Promotion Committee (IPC), the MOFCOM–MTI Dialogue and provincial-level 
70 
 
business councils. The Parties shall continually strengthen the Government-to-
Government mechanisms, and explore new means of cooperation toward this end. 
 
4. 
The Parties note that the participation of semi-official and non-official 
organisations in the area of trade and investment promotion has positive effect on 
bilateral economic cooperation. The Parties agree to support these organisations, 
where possible, to foster trade and investment promotion activities. 
 
5. 
The Parties note the importance of accelerating and promoting broader 
exchanges and cooperation between the business communities of the Parties and 
shall encourage business promotion activities so as to foster exchanges and 
networking among their respective enterprises. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Participation in China’s Regional Development 
 
1. 
Recognising that participation in China’s regional development is a key pillar in 
bilateral relations, which is exemplified by the flagship Suzhou Industrial Park project, 
the Parties shall continue to work closely to broaden and deepen cooperation in this 
area. 
 
2. 
Noting that the flagship Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-city project is another key 
step forward in bilateral cooperation in regional development, both Parties agree to 
work closely with a view to developing the city as a model for sustainable development 
and enhance cooperation in areas including environmental protection and resource 
and energy conservation. 
 
3. 
Recognising that the China-Singapore (Chongqing) Demonstration Initiative on 
Strategic Connectivity is the key priority demonstration project under China’s Belt and 
Road Initiative, Western Region Development and Yangtze River Economic Belt 
strategies, both Parties agree to work closely in four priority areas of collaboration, viz. 
financial services, 
aviation, transport and logistics, and information and 
communications technology, in order to enhance connectivity and drive the 
development of Western China. The Parties also agree to accord the Initiative with 
necessary innovative measures, including but not limited to policy and institutional 
innovations, which shall be consistent with China’s Comprehensive Deepening of 
Reforms. 
  
4. 
The Parties reaffirm the role of the bilateral provincial business councils as the 
important mechanism of their cooperation to support China’s regional development 
initiatives. The Parties agree to strengthen their existing collaboration as well as 
explore new areas of cooperation through the councils. 
 
5. 
The Parties shall also work with the respective business chambers in China and 
Singapore to encourage participation in regional trade fairs in China. 
 
6.The Parties agree in-principle that any business collaboration should be 
commercially led and the governments should play a facilitative role. 
71 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
Tourism Cooperation 
 
1. 
Recognising that strong tourism and people-to-people flows are important for 
the long-term development of their respective economies, the Parties shall continue 
to strengthen cooperation in tourism promotion and exchanges through regular 
dialogues. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall continue to further co-operate in the field of tourism.  The 
Parties also note the importance of expanding and deepening tourism cooperation, in 
particular, to increase edu-tourism and student exchanges. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall co-operate in good faith to promote tourism by exploring ways 
and initiatives to introduce greater convenience to travellers. This would further 
enhance the mutual understanding and friendly exchanges between the peoples of 
the Parties. 
 
4. 
Each Party will encourage the participation of the tourism enterprises in travel 
marts, exhibitions and tourism festivals so as to enhance two-way communication and 
cooperation, with a view to deepening understanding of the needs of tourists from the 
other Party and improving the quality of service. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Human Resource Development 
 
1. 
Recognising that human resource development is a key pillar in bilateral 
relations, the Parties agree to continue conducting bilateral exchanges and training 
programmes for officials in order to enhance cooperation in human resources training 
and development, and deepen mutual understanding and friendship between both 
countries. In this regard, the Parties recognise the arrangements established under 
the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Singapore and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Peoples’ Republic of China on the 
Exchange Programme for Middle- to Senior-Level Officials (2015-2019), signed on 27 
October 2014. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Facilitation of “Go Global” Efforts of Chinese Enterprises 
 
1. 
Recognising that facilitating the “Go Global” efforts of Chinese enterprises is a 
key pillar of bilateral cooperation, the Parties shall intensify their collaboration in this 
area. 
 
72 
 
2. 
The Parties shall explore more ways to facilitate business exchanges and 
promote awareness amongst Chinese companies on the advantages of using 
Singapore as an effective regional platform as well as explore collaborative 
opportunities in third country markets. 
 
3. 
The Parties agree that any business collaboration should be commercially led 
and the role that governments can play is to raise awareness of such opportunities 
and provide platforms such as business seminars and networking sessions to facilitate 
exchanges. 
 
4. 
The Parties shall constantly explore new avenues of collaboration through 
platforms such as the MOFCOM–MTI Dialogue, the IPC and the JCBC. 
 
 
 
