 
ANNEX 5 
Part A – China’s Schedule of Specific Commitments on Services 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
1 The terms of the contract, concluded in accordance with China's laws, regulations and other measures, establishing a "contractual joint venture" govern matters such as the manner of operation and 
management of the joint venture as well as the investment or other contributions of the joint venture parties. Equity participation by all parties to the contractual joint venture is not required, but is determined 
pursuant to the joint venture contract. “Foreign invested enterprise” in this schedule means a foreign invested enterprise duly constituted or otherwise organized under “Law on Chinese-Foreign Equity Joint 
Ventures”, “Law on Chinese-Foreign Contractual Joint Ventures” and “Law on Foreign-Capital Enterprises”. 
Annex 5A - 1  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 2 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 3  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 4 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 5  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 6 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 7  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 8 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 9  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 10 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 11  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 12 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 13  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
∗ Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
 
Annex 5A - 14 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 15  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 16 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
2 China's commitments are scheduled in accordance with the following: Notes for Scheduling Basic Telecom Services Commitments (S/GBT/W/2/REV/1) and Market Access Limitations on Spectrum 
Availability (S/GBT/W/3) attached hereto. 
All international telecommunications services shall go through gateways established with the approval of China's telecommunications authorities, which will act as an independent regulatory authority in 
accordance with the principles of paragraph 5 of the Reference Paper. 
Telecommunication services do not cover the economic activity consisting of the provision of content services which require telecommunications services for their transport. 
Annex 5A - 17  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 18 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 19  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 20 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
3 Including dredging services relating to infrastructure construction. 
4 Coverage of CPC 518 is limited only to the rental and leasing services of construction and/or demolition machines with operator which are owned and used by foreign construction enterprises in their 
supply of services. 
* Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
Annex 5A - 21  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 22 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
5 The restrictions on mode 1 shall not undermine the rights of WTO Members to the right to trade as stipulated in Chapter 5 of China's Protocol of accession to the WTO. 
Annex 5A - 23  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 24 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
6 See paragraph 310 of the Working Party Report. 
Annex 5A - 25  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 26 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 27  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
7 Any further authorization provided to foreign insurers after accession under more favorable conditions than those contained in this schedule (including the extension of grandfathered investments through 
branching, sub-branching or any other legal form), will be made available to other foreign service suppliers which so requested. 
Annex 5A - 28 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 29  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 30 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 31  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 32 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 33  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 34 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 35  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 36 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 37  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 38 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 39  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
* Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
Annex 5A - 40 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
                                                      
* Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
Annex 5A - 41  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 42 
  
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 43  
 
Modes of supply:   (1)  Cross-border supply   (2)  Consumption abroad   (3)  Commercial presence  (4) Presence of Natural Persons 
Annex 5A - 44 
  
Appendix 1 
 
Reference Paper  
 
Scope 
 
  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic 
telecommunications services.   
 
Definitions 
 
  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.   
 
  Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or 
service that: 
 
(a)  are  exclusively  or  predominantly  provided by  a  single  or limited  number  of 
suppliers;  and 
(b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a 
service. 
 
  A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of 
participation  (having  regard  to  price  and  supply)  in  the  relevant  market  for  basic 
telecommunications services as a result of: 
 
  (a)  control over essential facilities;  or 
  (b)  use of its position in the market. 
 
1.  Competitive safeguards 
 
1.1  Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications 
 
  Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, 
alone  or  together,  are  a  major  supplier  from  engaging  in  or  continuing  anti-competitive 
practices. 
 
1.2  Safeguards 
 
  The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular: 
 
(a)  engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;   
  (b)  using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results;  and 
(c)  not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical 
information  about  essential  facilities  and  commercially  relevant  information 
which are necessary for them to provide services. 
 
2.  Interconnection 
 
2.1  This  section  applies  to  linking  with  suppliers  providing  public  telecommunications 
transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with 
users of another supplier and  to access services provided by another supplier, where specific 
commitments are undertaken. 
 
Annex 5A - 45  
 
2.2  Interconnection to be ensured 
 
  Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in 
the network.  Such interconnection is provided. 
 
(a)  under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and 
specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided 
for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or 
for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
(b)  in  a  timely  fashion,  on  terms,  conditions  (including  technical  standards  and 
specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having 
regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier 
need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the 
service to be provided;  and 
(c)  upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to 
the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of 
necessary additional facilities. 
 
2.3  Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations 
 
  The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly 
available. 
 
2.4  Transparency of interconnection arrangements 
 
  It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection 
agreements or a reference interconnection offer. 
 
2.5  Interconnection:  dispute settlement 
 
  A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, 
either: 
 
  (a)  at any time; or 
  (b)  after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known 
 
to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 
5  below,  to  resolve  disputes  regarding  appropriate  terms,  conditions  and  rates  for 
interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been 
established previously. 
 
3.  Universal service 
 
  Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to 
maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are 
administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are 
not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Member.      
 
4.  Public availability of licensing criteria 
 
  Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available: 
 
Annex 5A - 46 
  
(a)  all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a 
decision concerning an application for a licence;  and 
(b)  the terms and conditions of  individual licences. 
 
  The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon 
request. 
 
5.  Independent regulators 
 
  The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic 
telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall 
be impartial with respect to all market participants. 
 
6.  Allocation and use of scarce resources 
 
  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, 
numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-
discriminatory manner. The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly 
available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is 
not required. 
 
Annex 5A - 47  
 
   
W T
ORLD  RADE
  S/GBT/W/2/Rev.1 
    16 January 1997 
O
RGANIZATION   
     (97-0173) 
 
Group on Basic Telecommunications 
 
 
 
Note by the Chairman 
 
Revision 
 
  It has been suggested by a number of delegations that it might be helpful to produce a brief and simple 
note on assumptions applicable to the scheduling of commitments in basic telecoms.  The purpose of the attached 
note  is  to  assist  delegations  in  ensuring  the  transparency  of  their  commitments  and  to  promote  a  better 
understanding of the meaning of commitments.  This note is not intended to have or acquire any binding legal 
status. 
 
 
  NOTES FOR SCHEDULING BASIC TELECOM SERVICES COMMITMENTS 
 
 
1.  Unless otherwise noted in the sector column, any basic telecom service listed in the sector column: 
 
  (a)  encompasses local, long distance and international services for public and non-public use; 
 
  (b)  may be provided on a facilities-basis or by resale;  and 
  
  (c)  may be provided through any means of technology (e.g., cable8, wireless, satellites). 
 
2.  Subsector (g) --private leased circuit services -- involves the ability of service suppliers to sell or lease any 
type of network capacity for the supply of services listed in any other basic telecom service subsector unless 
otherwise noted in the sector column.  This would include capacity via cable, satellite and wireless network. 
 
3.  In view of points 1 and 2 above, it should not be necessary to list cellular or mobile services as a separate 
subsector. However,  a number of Members have done so, and a number of offers have commitments only in these 
subsectors.  Therefore, in order to avoid extensive changes in schedules, it would seem appropriate for Members to 
maintain separate entries for these subsectors. 
                                                      
     8Including all types of cable. 
Annex 5A - 48 
  
 
W T
ORLD  RADE
  S/GBT/W/3 
    3 February 1997 
O
RGANIZATION   
     (97-0415) 
 
    Original:  English 
Group on Basic Telecommunications 
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S NOTE 
 
Market Access Limitations on Spectrum Availability 
 
 
  Many Members have entries in the market access column of their schedules indicating that commitments 
are "subject to availability of spectrum/frequency" or similar wording.  In light of the physical nature of spectrum 
and the constraints inherent in its use, it is understandable that Members may have sought to rely on these words to 
adequately protect legitimate spectrum management policies.  There is, however, doubt that words such as "subject 
to availability of spectrum/frequency" as listed in the market access column of many Members' schedules achieve 
that objective. 
 
  Spectrum/frequency management is not, per se, a measure which needs to be listed under Article XVI.  
Furthermore under the GATS each Member has the right to exercise spectrum/frequency management, which may 
affect the number of service suppliers, provided that this is done in accordance with Article VI and other relevant 
provisions of the GATS.  This includes the ability to allocate frequency bands taking into account existing and 
future needs.  Also, Members which have made additional commitment in line with the Reference Paper on 
regulatory principles are bound by its paragraph 6. 
 
  Therefore, words such as "subject to availability of spectrum/frequency" are unnecessary and should be 
deleted from Members' schedules. 
 
 
 
 
Annex 5A - 49  
 
Appendix 2 
 
Distribution Services 
 
  Distribution trade services are comprised of four main sub-sectors: 
 
−  commission agents services; 
−  wholesaling; 
−  retailing; and 
−  franchising. 
 
  The principal services rendered in each subsector can be characterized as reselling 
merchandise, accompanied by a variety of related subordinated services, including inventory 
management; assembly, sorting and grading of bulk lots; breaking bulk lots and redistributing 
into smaller lots; delivery services; refrigeration, storage, warehousing and garage services; 
sales promotion, marketing and advertising, installation and after sales services including 
maintenance and repair and training services. Distribution services are generally covered by 
CPC 61, 62, 63 and 8929. 
 
  Commission Agents' Services consist of sales on a fee or contract basis by an agent, 
broker or auctioneer or other wholesalers of goods/merchandise and related subordinated 
services. 
 
  Wholesaling  consist  of  the  sale  of  goods/merchandise  to  retailers  to  industrial, 
commercial, institutional, or other professional business users, or to other wholesalers and 
related subordinated services. 
 
  Retailing services consist of the sale of goods/merchandise for personal or household 
consumption either from a fixed location (e.g., store, kiosk, etc.) or away from a fixed location 
and related subordinated services.  
 
  Franchising  services  consist  of  the  sale  of  the  use  of  a  product,  trade  name  or 
particular business format system in exchange for fees or royalties. Product and trade name 
franchising involves the use of a trade name in exchange for fees or royalties and may include 
an obligation for exclusive sale of trade name products. Business format franchising involves 
the use of an entire business concept in exchange for fees and royalties, and may include the 
use of a trade name, business plan, and training materials and related subordinated services. 
Annex 5A - 50 
  
Appendix 3 
 
Insurance: Definition of "Master Policy" 
 
  Master policy is the policy that provides blanket coverage for the same legal person's 
property and liabilities located in different places. Master policy may only be issued by the 
business department of an insurer's head office or that of its authorized province-level branch 
offices. Other branches are not allowed to issue master policy. 
 
  Master policy business with the state key construction projects as its subject-matter 
insured.  If investors on the state key construction projects (i.e., projects that are so listed and 
annually announced by the State Development and Planning Commission) meet either of the 
following requirements, they may purchase master policy from insurers that are located in the 
same place as the investors' legal persons do. 
 
  The  investment  on  the  subject-matter  insured  is  all  from  China  (including  the 
reinvestment from the foreign-invested enterprises in China), and the sum of investment of 
the investor accounts for over 15 per cent of the total investment. 
 
  The  investment  is  partially  from  abroad,  and  partially  from  China  (including  the 
reinvestment from the foreign-invested enterprises in China), and the sum of investment of 
the Chinese investor accounts for over 15 per cent for the total domestic investment. 
 
  For those projects that draw investment all from abroad, every insurer may provide 
coverage in the form of master policies. 
 
  Master policy covering different subjects-matter insured of the same legal person.  For 
those subjects-matter insured located in different places and owned by the same legal person 
(excluding financial, railway, and post and telecommunications industries and enterprises), 
master policy may be issued on the basis of either of the following conditions. 
 
  For the sake of payment of premium tax, insurance companies incorporated where the 
legal person or accounting unit of the insurance applicant is located are allowed to issue 
master policy. 
 
  If over 50 per cent of insurance amount of the subject-matter insured is from a larger or 
medium sized city, then insurers in that city are allowed to issue master policy, no matter 
whether the insurance applicant's legal person or accounting unit is located in the city. 
 
  Motor insurance, credit insurance, employer liabilities insurance, statutory insurance, 
and other insurance business excluded by the CIRC can not be underwritten or co-insured by 
insurers located other than where the subject-insured are located, or covered under a master 
policy.  
 
 
__________ 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 5A - 51 