 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 3 
 
FORMATS OF CERTIFICATES OF ORIGIN ANNEX 3 
Formats of Certificates of Origin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part A – China’s Certificate of Origin Original (Copies) 
 
 OVERLEAF INSTRUCTION 
Box 1: State the full legal name, address (including country) of the exporter in China. 
Box 2: State the full legal name, address (including country) of the consignee in 
Singapore. 
Box 3:  Complete the means of transport and route and specify the departure date, 
transport vehicle, port of discharge. 
Box 4: The customs authorities of the importing country must indicate (√ ) in the relevant 
boxes whether or not preferential tariff treatment is accorded. 
Box 5: State the item number. 
Box 6: State the shipping marks and numbers on the packages. 
Box 7:  Number and type of packages shall be specified.  Provide a full description of 
each good.  The description should be sufficiently detailed to enable the 
products to be identified by the Customs Officers examining them and relate it to 
the invoice description and to the HS description of the good.  If goods are not 
packed, state “in bulk”.  When the description of the goods is finished, add “***” 
(three stars) or “ \ ” (finishing slash).  For each good described in Box 7, identify 
the HS tariff classification to six digits. 
Box 8: If the goods qualify under the Rules of Origin, the exporter must indicate in Box 8 
of this form the origin criteria on the basis of which he claims that his goods 
qualify for preferential tariff treatment, in the manner shown in the following table: 
 
 
Box 9:  Gross weight in Kilos should be shown here.  Other units of measurement e.g. 
volume or number of items which would indicate exact quantities may be used 
when customary; the FOB value shall be indicated here. 
Box 10: Invoice number and date of invoices should be shown here. 
Box 11: The field must be completed, signed and dated by the exporter.  Insert the 
place, date of signature. 
Box 12: The field must be completed, signed, dated and stamped by the authorised 
person of the certifying authority. 
 
 ANNEX 3 
Formats of Certificates of Origin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PART B – Singapore’s Certificate of Origin  EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE FORMAT OF PREFERENTIAL CERTIFICATE OF 
ORIGIN ISSUED BY SINGAPORE 
 
 