CHAPTER 3 
TRADE IN GOODS 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
Scope and Coverage 
 
This Chapter applies to trade in goods between the Parties, unless otherwise 
provided. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in 
accordance with Article III of the GATT 1994.  To this end, the provisions of 
Article III of the GATT 1994 shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and 
form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
Customs Duties 
 
1. 
The tariff lines that are subject to the tariff reduction or elimination 
programme under this Agreement are all the tariff lines covered under the 
Normal Track, as specified in Article 3(2)(a) of the Agreement on Trade in Goods 
of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Co-operation 
between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the People’s Republic 
of China done on 29 November 2004 (the “ASEAN-China Trade in Goods 
Agreement”), read with Annex 1 thereof.  In the case of Singapore, this 
Agreement shall also include all tariff lines covered under the Sensitive Track, as 
specified in Article 3(2)(b) of the ASEAN-China Trade in Good Agreement, read 
with Annex 2 thereof1. 
 
2. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and subject to paragraph 
1 as well as a Party’s Tariff Elimination Schedule as set out in Annex 1 (Tariff 
Elimination Schedules), on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, each 
Party shall eliminate its customs duties on originating goods of the other Party. 
 
3. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, either Party shall not 
increase any existing duty or introduce a new customs duty on an originating 
good of the other Party. 
 
                                            
1 For greater certainty, in the case of China, tariff lines covered under the Sensitive Track, as 
specified in Article 3(2)(b) of the ASEAN-China Trade in Goods Agreement, read with Annex 2 
thereof, shall continue to be governed by that Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
Accelerated Tariff Elimination 
 
1. 
At the request of either Party, the Parties shall consult to consider 
accelerating the elimination of customs duties on originating goods as set out in 
their Tariff Elimination Schedules in Annex 1 (Tariff Elimination Schedules). 
 
2. 
An agreement by the Parties to accelerate the elimination of customs 
duties on originating goods shall supersede any duty rate determined pursuant to 
their Schedules for such goods, and shall enter into force following approval by 
each Party in accordance with their applicable legal procedures. 
 
3. 
A Party may at any time accelerate unilaterally the elimination of customs 
duties on originating goods of the other Party set out in its Tariff Elimination 
Schedule.  A Party considering doing so shall inform the other Party as early as 
practicable before the new rate of customs duty takes effect. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1. 
Each Party undertakes not to maintain any quantitative restrictions at any 
time unless otherwise permitted under the WTO disciplines. 
 
2. 
Neither Party shall adopt or maintain any non-tariff measure on the 
importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation of any good 
destined for the territory of the other Party, except in accordance with its WTO 
rights and obligations, or in accordance with other provisions of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures 
permitted under paragraph 1 above and that they are not prepared, adopted or 
applied with a view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to 
trade between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
State Trading Enterprises 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent a Party from maintaining 
or establishing a state trading enterprise in accordance with Article XVII of the 
GATT 1994. 
