CHAPTER 7 
TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE, 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 44 
Definitions 
 
1. 
The definitions in Annex A of the WTO Agreement on Application of 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (the “SPS Agreement”) and Annex 1 of the 
WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (the “TBT Agreement”) shall 
apply to this Chapter. 
 
2. 
All definitions provided in the Annexes to this Chapter shall apply only to 
the respective Annexes. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
 
(a) 
SPS refers to sanitary and phytosanitary measures; and 
 
 
(b) 
TBT refers to technical barriers to trade. 
 
 
ARTICLE 45 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are: 
 
(a) 
to improve the implementation of the SPS Agreement and the TBT 
Agreement between the Parties, so as to avoid unnecessary 
barriers to bilateral trade, to promote and facilitate bilateral trade, 
while protecting human, animal or plant life or health or fulfilling 
other legitimate objectives1; 
 
(b) 
to strengthen mutual understanding of the Parties’ administrative 
systems by establishing a framework for communication and co-
operation, and to resolve relevant issues arising from bilateral trade 
in a prompt and efficient manner, to expand the opportunities for 
bilateral trade. 
 
 
ARTICLE 46 
Scope and Coverage 
 
                                            
1 As understood under Article 2.2 of the TBT Agreement. 
This Chapter applies to all sanitary and phytosanitary measures, technical 
regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures of a Party which 
may, directly or indirectly, affect trade between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 47 
Competent Authorities and Contact Points 
 
1. 
The competent authorities of the Parties are the authorities responsible for 
the implementation of this Chapter.  The contact points of the Parties are the 
agencies responsible for the communication and notification of information 
between the Parties, as specified in Annex 4 (Contact Points for TBT and SPS). 
 
2. 
The Parties shall notify each other of any significant change in the 
structures, organisations and divisions of the competent authorities and contact 
points. 
 
 
ARTICLE 48 
Reaffirmation 
 
The Parties reaffirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each 
other under the TBT Agreement and the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 49 
Regionalisation 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to properly and actively resolve the quarantine issues of 
concern to each other related to the import and export of agricultural products of 
both Parties in accordance with Article 6 of the SPS Agreement. 
 
2. 
The exporting Party may request the importing Party to recognise its pest-
free or disease-free status in all or part of its territory.  The importing Party shall 
give favourable consideration to such request and, following an assessment, may 
agree to recognise such pest-free or disease-free status of the exporting Party in 
accordance with paragraph 1.  After confirmation of the pest-free or disease-free 
status, the importing Party shall allow agricultural products originating from these 
areas of the exporting Party into its markets, in accordance with the importing 
Party’s SPS requirements. 
 
3. 
If the importing Party considers that a risk with respect to a disease or 
pest outbreak may exist in a part or parts of the territory of the exporting Party 
where agricultural products destined for the importing Party originate, the 
importing Party may request the exporting Party to reaffirm this free status.  The 
importing Party may also request the exporting Party to take specific eradication 
and control measures to ensure that the free status is maintained and to ensure 
that agricultural products originated therein meet the SPS requirements of the 
importing Party. 
 
4. 
Any agreement or arrangement on regionalisation which may be 
concluded between the Parties under this Agreement shall be placed in the 
Annexes in accordance with Article 58 (Final Provisions on Annexes). 
 
 
ARTICLE 50 
Exchange of Information and Cooperation 
 
1. 
The Parties shall strengthen the exchange of information and co-operation 
in the areas of mutual interest relating to TBT and SPS, such as: 
 
(a) 
inspection and quarantine of animals, plants and their products; 
 
(b) 
quality and safety control of products; 
 
(c) 
procedure 
and 
processing 
period 
of 
approval 
of 
food 
establishments; 
 
(d) 
technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment 
procedures; and 
 
(e) 
sharing of experience in the implementation of the principle of 
transparency by their respective enquiry points under the TBT 
Agreement and SPS Agreement. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall, on request, give positive consideration to proposals to 
supplement existing co-operation on standards, technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures.  Such co-operation, which shall be on 
mutually agreed terms and conditions, may include but are not limited to advice 
or technical co-operation relating to the development or application of standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall strengthen co-operation and communication of 
experience and expertise in addressing TBT and SPS measures affecting both 
Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 51 
International Standards 
 
1. 
The Parties shall use international standards, or the relevant parts of 
international standards, as a basis for their technical regulations and related 
conformity assessment procedures where relevant international standards exist 
or their completion is imminent, except when such international standards or their 
relevant parts are ineffective or inappropriate to fulfil legitimate objectives. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall co-operate with each other, where appropriate, in the 
context of their participation in international standardising bodies, to ensure that 
international standards developed within such bodies, that are likely to become a 
basis for technical regulations, are trade facilitating and do not create 
unnecessary obstacles to international trade. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall strengthen communications and co-ordination with each 
other, where appropriate, in the context of discussions on standards and related 
issues in the TBT Committee under the TBT Agreement and the SPS Committee 
under the SPS Agreement and other relevant international or regional fora. 
 
 
ARTICLE 52 
Conformity Assessment Procedure 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the differences between their legal systems 
regarding conformity assessment and agree to discuss the possibility of mutual 
recognition of conformity assessment in accordance with the TBT Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall exchange information on conformity assessment 
procedures including testing, inspection, certification, accreditation and metrology 
with a view to promoting the recognition of conformity assessment procedures 
between the Parties. 
 
3. 
A Party shall give favourable consideration to a request by the other Party 
to recognise the conformity assessment procedures conducted by bodies in the 
other Party’s territory through a mutual recognition agreement or arrangement. 
 
4. 
Any agreement or arrangement on mutual recognition of conformity 
assessment procedures concluded between the Parties under this Agreement 
shall be specified in the Annexes in accordance with Article 58 (Final Provisions 
on Annexes). 
 
 
ARTICLE 53 
Equivalence 
 
1. 
The Parties shall give favourable consideration to accepting the 
equivalence of each other’s technical regulations and SPS measures consistent 
with the purpose of this Chapter, the TBT Agreement and the SPS Agreement. 
 
2. 
Any agreement or arrangement on acceptance of equivalence of each 
other’s technical regulations and SPS measures which may be concluded 
between the Parties under this Agreement shall be placed in the Annexes in 
accordance with Article 58 (Final Provisions on Annexes). 
 
 
ARTICLE 54 
Transparency 
 
1. 
The Parties shall notify each other through their respective TBT and SPS 
enquiry points, under the TBT Agreement and the SPS Agreement, of any new 
technical regulation and SPS measure related to the trade of products in 
accordance with the TBT Agreement and the SPS Agreement, or any change to 
them.  Each Party shall allow at least sixty (60) days for the other Party to 
present comments in writing on any notification except where considerations of 
health, safety, environmental protection or national security arise or threaten to 
arise to warrant more urgent action. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall make available to the other Party, electronically or in any 
other form, up-to-date publications on technical regulations and any relevant 
conformity assessment procedures that are cited in, or may be used to comply 
with, those technical regulations.  Each Party shall make known to the other 
Party the relevant standards that are cited in, or may be used to comply with, 
those technical regulations. 
 
 
ARTICLE 55 
Joint Working Group 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish the Joint Working Group on TBT and SPS, 
comprising representatives from the relevant regulatory authorities of each Party. 
 
2. 
The Joint Working Group shall be led and co-ordinated by co-chairs from 
both Parties. 
 
3. 
The Joint Working Group shall be established no later than one (1) year 
following the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  The meeting of the Joint 
Working Group shall take place once a year, back-to-back with the meetings of 
the FTA Joint Committee established under Article 111 (Implementation and 
Review), unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. 
 
4. 
The functions of the Joint Working Group shall include: 
 
 
(a) 
administering and supervising the implementation of this Chapter; 
 
 
(b) 
addressing any issue and dispute arising from the implementation 
of this Chapter and its Annexes; 
 
 
(c) 
reviewing this Chapter and its Annexes, making supplementary 
attachments and Annexes where necessary; 
 
(d) 
where appropriate, facilitating co-operation in specific areas among 
accreditation and conformity assessment bodies in the Parties’ 
territories; 
 
(e) 
ensuring the Parties’ relevant regulatory authorities negotiate on 
the priority issues identified by the Joint Study Report on a Free 
Trade Agreement between China and Singapore in an appropriate 
manner, in particular, mutual recognition of conformity assessment 
procedures on electrical and electronic equipment, regionalisation, 
mutual recognition of conformity assessment procedures on 
telecommunications equipment and equivalence; 
 
(f) 
where appropriate, strengthening the exchange of information with 
regard to the activities of non-governmental, regional, and 
multilateral fora related to standardisation, technical regulations, 
and conformity assessment procedures; and 
 
(g) 
reporting to the FTA Joint Committee on the implementation of this 
Chapter when appropriate. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall, upon request, give favourable consideration to any 
sector-specific proposal made by the other Party for further co-operation under 
this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 56 
Confidentiality 
 
1. 
Where a Party provides information to the other Party in accordance with 
this Agreement and designates the information as confidential, the other Party 
shall maintain the confidentiality of such information.  Such information shall be 
used only for the purposes specified, and shall not be otherwise disclosed 
without the specific permission of the Party providing the information. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require either Party to furnish 
or allow access to information, the disclosure of which it considers would: 
 
(a) 
be contrary to its essential security interests; 
 
(b) 
be contrary to the public interest as determined by its domestic 
laws, regulations and administrative provisions; 
 
(c) 
be contrary to any of its domestic laws, regulations and 
administrative provisions including but not limited to those 
protecting personal privacy or the financial affairs and accounts of 
individual customers of financial institutions; 
 
(d) 
impede law enforcement; or 
 
(e) 
prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular public or 
private enterprises. 
 
 
ARTICLE 57 
Preservation of Regulatory Authority 
 
1. 
Each Party retains all authority under its laws to interpret and implement 
its technical regulations and SPS measures. 
 
2. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall: 
 
(a) 
prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining, in accordance with its 
international rights and obligations, technical regulations and SPS 
measures, as appropriate to its particular national circumstances; 
 
(b) 
prevent a Party from adopting technical regulations and SPS 
measures to ensure the quality of its imports and exports, or for the 
protection of human, animal or plant life or health, or the 
environment, or for the prevention of deceptive practices or to fulfil 
other legitimate objectives2; 
 
(c) 
limit the authority of a Party to take all appropriate measures 
whenever it ascertains that products may not conform with its 
technical regulations and SPS measures.  Such measures may 
include withdrawing the products from the market, prohibiting their 
placement on the market, restricting their free movement, initiating 
a product recall, initiating legal proceedings or otherwise preventing 
the recurrence of such problems including through a prohibition on 
imports.  If a Party takes such measures, it shall notify the other 
Party within fifteen (15) working days of taking the measures, giving 
its reasons; 
 
                                            
2 As understood under Article 2.2 of the TBT Agreement. 
(d) 
oblige a Party to recognise the standards or technical regulations or 
SPS measures of the other Party as equivalent; or 
 
(e) 
affect the rights and obligations of either Party as a member of the 
TBT Agreement or the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 58 
Final Provisions on Annexes3 
 
1. 
The Parties may, upon request, commence discussions to explore the 
possibility of establishing additional Annexes of mutual interest after the signing 
of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Where urgent problems of safety, health, consumer or environmental 
protection or national security arise or threaten to arise for a Party, that Party 
may suspend the operation of any Annex, in whole or in part, immediately.  In 
such a case, the Party shall immediately advise the other Party of the nature of 
the urgent problem, the products covered and the objective and rationale of the 
suspension. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, an Annex shall provide, but is not limited 
to, the following details: 
 
(a) 
the regulatory authorities designated by each Party; 
 
(b) 
the detailed implementing arrangements; and 
 
(c) 
the provisions for entry into force and/or termination. 
 
 
                                            
3 Annexes to this Chapter include Sectoral Annexes. 
