CHAPTER 11 
ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 85 
Objectives 
 
1.  The objectives of this Chapter are: 
 
(a)  to further strengthen bilateral co-operation in view of recent regional 
and international strategic developments; 
 
(b)  to reaffirm existing arrangements already in place for bilateral co-
operation; and 
 
(c)  to explore new areas of collaboration between the Parties. 
 
2.  The areas of co-operation may include, but are not limited to: 
 
(a)  Trade and Investment Promotion 
 
(b)  Participation in China’s Regional Development 
 
(c)  Tourism Co-operation 
 
(d)  Human Resource Development 
 
(e)  Facilitation of “Go Global” Efforts of Chinese Enterprises 
 
 
ARTICLE 86 
Trade and Investment Promotion 
 
1.  Recognising that strong trade and investment flows are important for the 
development  of  their  respective  economies,  the  Parties  shall  explore 
strengthening co-operation in trade and investment promotion. 
 
2.  To achieve the above, the Parties shall encourage and facilitate activities 
which include the following: 
 
(a)  policy  dialogue  to  promote  and  expand  trade  and  investment 
between the Parties; 
 
(b)  exchanging views on important economic and trade issues, and 
holding  consultations  to  solve  common  problems  relating  to 
bilateral trade and investment;  
(c)  jointly identifying priority sectors with strong co-operation potential 
based  on  the  Parties’  complementary  strengths,  and  exploring 
ways of collaboration in the identified sectors; 
 
(d)  supporting  exchanges  and  dialogues  between  the  business 
communities of the Parties; and 
 
(e)  reinforcing economic co-operation between the Parties, including in 
third countries. 
 
3.  The  Parties  shall  guide  and  co-ordinate  co-operation  in  trade  and 
investment  promotion  through  the  existing  mechanisms  of  the  national-level 
JCBC,  the  Investment  Promotion  Committee  (the  “IPC”),  the  MOFCOM–MTI 
Dialogue and provincial-level business councils.  The Parties shall continually 
strengthen  the  Government-to-Government  mechanisms,  and  explore  new 
means of co-operation toward this end. 
 
4.  The  Parties  note  that  the  participation  of  semi-official  and  non-official 
organisations in the area of trade and investment promotion has positive effect 
on  bilateral  economic  co-operation.    The  Parties  agree  to  support  these 
organisations,  where  possible,  to  foster  trade  and  investment  promotion 
activities. 
 
5.  The Parties note the importance of accelerating and promoting broader 
exchanges and co-operation between the business communities of the Parties 
and shall encourage business promotion activities so as to foster exchanges and 
networking among their respective enterprises. 
 
 
ARTICLE 87 
Participation in China’s Regional Development 
 
1.  Recognising that participation in China’s regional development is a key 
pillar in bilateral relations, which is exemplified by the flagship Suzhou Industrial 
Park project, the Parties shall continue to work closely to broaden and deepen 
co-operation in this area. 
 
2.  Noting that the flagship Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-city project is another 
key step forward in bilateral co-operation in regional development, both Parties 
agree  to  work  closely  with  a  view  to  developing  the  city  as  a  model  for 
sustainable  development  and  enhance  co-operation  in  areas  including 
environmental protection and resource and energy conservation. 
 
3.  The Parties reaffirm the role of the bilateral provincial business councils as 
the  important  mechanism  of  their  co-operation  to  support  China’s  regional development  initiatives.    The  Parties  agree  to  strengthen  their  existing 
collaboration as well as explore new areas of co-operation through the councils. 
 
4.  The  Parties  shall  also  work  with  the  respective  business  chambers  in 
China and Singapore to encourage participation in regional trade fairs in China. 
 
5.  The Parties agree in-principle that any business collaboration should be 
commercially led and the governments should play a facilitative role. 
 
 
ARTICLE 88 
Tourism Co-operation 
 
1.  Recognising that strong tourism and people-to-people flows are important 
for  the  development  of  their  respective  economies,  the  Parties  shall  explore 
strengthening  co-operation  in  tourism  promotion  and  exchanges  through  fora 
such as the China National Tourism Administration–Singapore Tourism Board 
High-Level Bilateral Meeting and regular dialogues. 
 
2.  The Parties shall continue to further co-operation in the field of tourism.  
The Parties also note the importance of expanding and deepening tourism co-
operation, in particular, to increase edu-tourism and student exchanges. 
 
3.  The Parties shall co-operate in good faith to promote tourism by exploring 
ways and initiatives to introduce greater convenience to travellers.  This would 
further enhance the mutual understanding and friendly exchanges between the 
peoples of the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 89 
Human Resource Development 
 
1.  Recognising that human resource development (“HRD”) is a key pillar in 
bilateral relations, the Parties note that HRD is a two-way exchange. 
 
2.  In line with the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Singapore on the China-Singapore Human Resource Partnership for the 21st 
Century under the Joint Council for Bilateral Co-operation signed in September 
2005, the Parties shall strengthen and explore new ways of co-operation in this 
area, based on the following principles: 
 
(a)  to increase exchanges so as to allow officials to learn about the 
developments  taking  place  in  each  other’s  countries  and  the 
evolving best practices; (b)  to expand the forms and fields of exchanges to take into account 
each other’s evolving needs; and 
 
(c)  to explore co-operation in jointly extending technical assistance to 
third countries. 
 
 
ARTICLE 90 
Facilitation of “Go Global” Efforts of Chinese Enterprises 
 
1.  Recognising that facilitating the “Go Global” efforts of Chinese enterprises 
is  a  key  pillar  of  bilateral  co-operation,  the  Parties  shall  intensify  their 
collaboration in this area. 
 
2.  The Parties shall explore more ways to facilitate business exchanges and 
promote awareness amongst Chinese companies on the advantages of using 
Singapore  as  an  effective  regional  platform  as  well  as  explore  collaborative 
opportunities in third country markets. 
 
3.  The Parties agree that any business collaboration should be commercially 
led  and  the  role  that  governments  can  play  is  to  raise  awareness  of  such 
opportunities and provide platforms such as business seminars and networking 
sessions to facilitate exchanges. 
 
4.  The Parties shall constantly explore new avenues of collaboration through 
platforms such as the MOFCOM–MTI Dialogue, the IPC and the JCBC. 
 
 