ANNEX 2 
PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES 
 
Preamble 
 
For the purpose of Article 15 (Product Specific Rules) of the CSFTA, products which 
satisfy the Product Specific Rules set out herein shall be considered as goods which 
have  undergone  sufficient  transformation,  and  hence  shall  be  treated  as  the 
originating products of a Party in whose territory such transformation took place. 
 
A country of origin of a product shall be a Party in whose territory the last sufficient 
transformation of that product was performed. As for a product whose production 
took place in the territories of both Parties, originating status shall be conferred on a 
Party in whose territory the last sufficient transformation took place. 
 
 
A.  Exclusive Rule/Criterion 
 
The following product specific criteria shall be the sole criteria for determining the 
originating status of the following products. When applying for a Certificate of Origin 
based on the formats as set out in Annex 3 (Formats of Certificates of Origin), for 
these products, the exporter concerned can only use the product specific criteria as 
set out below: 
 
  
 
B.  Alternative Rules 
 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of Article 13 (Regional Value Content), when applying 
for a Certificate of Origin, based on the formats as set out in Annex 3 (Formats of 
Certificates of Origin), for the following products, the exporter can use either the 
general rule of a regional value content of not less than 40% or the Alternative Rules 
set out below. 
 
 
  1.  Change in Tariff Classification 
 
2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 
  
2.  Process Criterion for Textile and Textile Products - Working or 
Processing  Carried  Out  on  Non-Originating  Materials  that 
Confers Originating Status1 
 
    (a)   Fibres and Yarns 
 
                                            
1 Products shall be considered as originating if they result exclusively from the processes 
and/or operations set out in this Annex.  
11 
 Manufacture  through  process  of  fibre-making  (polymerisation, 
polycondensation  and  extrusion)  spinning,  twisting,  texturizing  or 
braiding from a blend or any of following:- 
 
-   Silk 
-   Wool, fine/coarse animal hair 
-   Cotton fibres 
-   Vegetable textile fibres 
-   Synthetic or artificial filaments/man-made filaments 
-     Synthetic or artificial staple fibres/man-made staple fibres 
 
12 
 13 
  
 
(b)  Fabric/Carpets and Other Textile Floor Coverings; Special 
Yarns, Twine, Cordage and Ropes and Cables and Articles 
Thereof. 
 
Manufacture from: 
-   Polymer (non-woven) 
-   Fibres (non-woven) 
-   Yarns (fabrics) 
-   Raw or Unbleached Fabrics (finished fabrics) 
 
through substantial transformation process of either: 
-   needle punching / spin bonding / chemical bonding 
-   weaving or knitting; 
-   crochetting or wadding or tufting; or 
-   dyeing or printing and finishing; or impregnation, coating, covering 
or lamination. 
 
 
14 
 15 
 16 
 17 
  
 
(c)  Article of Apparel and Clothing Accessories and Other 
Made Up Textile Articles 
 
Manufacture through the processes of cutting and assembly of parts 
into  a  complete  article  (for  apparel  and  tents)  and  incorporating 
embroidery or embellishment or printing (for made-up articles) from: 
 
-   raw or unbleached fabric 
-   finished fabric 
 
18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
  
*Rule of origin for HS 9619.00 is either PSR or RVC 40% due to HS transposition 
from 2007 to 2012.  
29 
 