CHAPTER 6 
TRADE REMEDIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 37 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  domestic industry means, with respect to an imported product, 
the producers as a whole of the like or directly competitive product 
or  those  producers  whose  collective  production  of  the  like  or 
directly competitive product constitutes a major proportion of the 
total domestic production of such product; 
 
(b)  Safeguards  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on  Safeguards, 
which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
(c)  serious  injury  means  a  significant  overall  impairment  in  the 
position of a domestic industry; and 
 
(d)  threat of serious injury means serious injury that, on the basis of 
facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture or remote possibility, 
is clearly imminent. 
 
 
ARTICLE 38 
General Provisions  
 
1.  The Parties agree and reaffirm their commitments to abide by their rights 
and obligations under the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the 
GATT 1994, the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, 
Article XIX of the GATT 1994, and the Safeguards Agreement. 
 
2.  The Parties agree to carry out any action taken pursuant to this Chapter in 
a transparent manner. 
 
 
ARTICLE 39 
Co-operation and Consultation 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate one or more contact points for the purposes of 
this Chapter and provide details of such contact points to the other Party.  The 
Parties shall notify each other promptly of any amendments to the details of their 
contact points. 
 2.  A Party may request consultations with the other Party on matters arising 
from  the  operation  of  this  Chapter.    Such  consultations  shall  be  conducted 
through the relevant contact points, and shall take place within forty-five (45) 
days of the request, unless the Parties mutually determine otherwise. 
 
 
ARTICLE 40 
Anti-Dumping 
 
1.  The Parties agree not to take any action pursuant to the WTO Agreement 
on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 in an arbitrary or protectionist 
manner. 
 
2.  The Parties agree that as soon as possible following the acceptance of a 
properly documented application from an industry in one Party for the initiation of 
an anti-dumping investigation in respect of products from the other Party, the 
Party that has accepted the properly documented application shall inform the 
contact point of the other Party of the acceptance of the application. 
 
 
ARTICLE 41 
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures 
 
Neither Party shall introduce or maintain any form of export subsidy on any 
goods destined for the territory of the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 42 
Global Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  A Party taking any measure pursuant to Article XIX of the GATT 1994 and 
the Safeguards Agreement may exclude imports of an originating product from 
the other Party from the action if such imports are non-injurious. 
 
2.  A Party shall advise the relevant contact points of the other Party of any 
safeguard action on the initiation of an investigation and the reasons for it. 
 
 
ARTICLE 43 
Bilateral Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  A Party shall have the right to initiate a bilateral safeguard measure on a 
product within the transition period for that product.  The transition period for a 
product shall begin from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and end 
five (5) years from the date of completion of tariff elimination for that product. 
 2.  A Party shall be free to take a bilateral safeguard measure, if, as a result 
of  the  reduction  or  elimination  of  a  customs  duty  under  this  Agreement,  an 
originating product of the other Party is being imported into the territory of a Party 
in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, 
and under such conditions that the imports of such originating product from the 
other Party constitute a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to a 
domestic industry producing a like or directly competitive product.  Such Party 
may apply a safeguard measure as set by increasing the tariff rate applicable to 
such originating product during the transition period to the WTO MFN tariff rate 
applied to such product at the time when the measure is taken. 
 
3.  In applying the bilateral safeguard measure, the Parties shall adopt the 
rules  for  the  application  of  safeguard  measures  as  provided  for  under  the 
Safeguards  Agreement  with  the  exception  of  the  quantitative  restriction 
measures set out in Article 5 of the Safeguards Agreement, and Articles 9, 13 
and  14  of  the  Safeguards  Agreement.    As  such,  all  other  provisions  of  the 
Safeguards Agreement shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding  the  above,  no  safeguard  measure  shall  be  applied 
against a product originating in a Party as long as its share of the total imports of 
the product concerned in the importing Party does not exceed 3%. 
 
5.  The safeguard measure may be maintained for an initial period of up to 
three (3) years and may be extended for a period not exceeding one (1) year.  
Notwithstanding  the  duration  of  a  safeguard  measure  on  a  product,  such 
measure shall terminate at the end of the transition period for that product. 
 
6.  Upon  the  termination  of  the  measure,  the  tariff  rate  applicable  to  the 
originating product shall be the rate which would have been in effect but for the 
measure. 
 
7.  The  Party  applying  a  measure  described  in  paragraph  1  shall,  in 
consultation with the other Party, provide to the other Party mutually agreed trade 
liberalising  compensation  in  accordance  with  Article  8  of  the  Safeguards 
Agreement.  The form of concessions shall have substantially equivalent trade 
effects or be equivalent to the value of the additional duties expected to result 
from the measure.  If the Parties are unable to agree on compensation within 
forty-five (45) days in the consultations under paragraph 3, the Party against 
whose originating product the measure is applied may take action with respect to 
originating  products  of  the  other  Party  that  has  trade  effects  substantially 
equivalent to the measure.  The Party taking such action shall apply the action 
only for the minimum period necessary to achieve the substantially equivalent 
effects, and in any event, only while the measure under paragraph 1 is being 
applied. 
 8.  When  applying  a  bilateral  safeguard  measure,  a  Party  shall  not  have 
simultaneous recourse to the WTO safeguard measures referred to in Article 42 
(Global Safeguard Measures). 