 
 
 
CHAPTER 16  
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP  
 
 
Article 16.1: Objectives  
 
1.       The  Parties agree  to  establish  a  framework for  cooperation  between  
themselves to expand and enhance the benefits of this Agreement.  
   
2.   The Parties shal  establish close cooperation aimed inter alia at:  
 
(a)   strengthening and building on existing cooperative relationships,  
including a focus on innovation, research and development;  
 
(b)    creating new opportunities for trade and investment; and  
 
(c)   promote and foster technical and scientific cooperation in areas  
of mutual interest.  
 
 
Article 16.2: Scope    
   
1.   The  Parties affirm  the  importance  of  al   forms of  cooperation,  with  
particular attention given to economic, scientific and technological cooperation  
in contributing towards implementation of the objectives and principles of this  
Agreement.  Cooperation may be extended to other areas as mutual y agreed  
between the Parties.    
   
2.   Possible areas of trade and investment cooperation and technical and  
scientific cooperation are set out in Annex 16.2. 
   
3.   Such cooperation should contribute to achieving the objectives of this  
Agreement  through  the  identification  and  development  of  innovative  
cooperation  programmes capable  of  providing  added  value  to  their  
relationships.   
   
4.   Cooperation  between  Parties under  this Chapter  wil   supplement  the  
cooperation  and  cooperative  activities set  out  in  other  Chapters of  this  
Agreement.  
 
 
Article 16.3: Trade and Investment Cooperation  
   
1.   The Parties shal :  
 
(a)   develop a program of mutual y agreed cooperative activities so  
as to pursue the areas of cooperation described in Annex 16.2;   
 
(b)   develop  other  mutual y  agreed  cooperation  activities between  
the  Parties to  assist  the  private  sector  in  both  Parties to  better  
 
 
16 - 1    
   
   
 
understand  business and  investment  opportunities in  the  other  
 
  Party; and   
   
 
(c)    undertake such other mutual y agreed activities in furtherance of  
 
  the object of this Agreement.  
   
2.   The  areas of  cooperation  between  the  Parties shal   reflect  their  
respective  national  priorities for  the  promotion  and  attraction  of  investment  
related  cooperative  activities and  shal   be  agreed  upon  in  writing  by  the  
Parties.  The  program  for  cooperation  may  include  long,  medium  and  short- 
term activities related to:  
 
(a)    building capacity for investment, job creation and workers' well- 
being; 
 
(b)    organizing  joint  investment  promotion  activities,  e.g.,  
conferences,  seminars,  workshops,  meetings,  outreach  /  
education  programs,  and  joint  promotion  of  specific projects of  
interest;  
 
(c)    exchanging  lists of  sectors /  industries where  one  Party  could  
encourage  investments from  the  other  Party  and  initiate  
promotional activities; and  
 
(d)    the  facilitation  of  partnerships,  linkages or  other  new  channels  
for the development of investments in such sectors.  
 
 
Article 16.4: Technical and Scientific Cooperation  
   
1.   The Parties shal :  
   
  (a)   develop a program of mutual y agreed programs and projects so  
 
as to pursue the areas of cooperation described in Annex 16.2;  
 
  and  
   
 
(b)   support,  where  appropriate,  the  participation  of  public,  private  
 
  and  social  organizations,  including  the  participation  of  
  universities,  institutions dedicated  to  research  and  non  
 
governmental organisations, in the execution of these programs  
 
  and projects   
   
2.   Provided  both  Parties  agree,  the  technical  and  scientific cooperation  
Parties may, apart from what has been provided for in Annex 16.2, take the  
fol owing between the forms:  
 
(a)   exchange of specialists, researchers and university professors;  
 
(b)   apprenticeship  programs  for  professional  training  and  
instruction;  
 
 
16 - 2  
 
 
 
(c)   joint  or  coordinated  implementation  of  research  and/or  
technological  development  programs and  projects that  link  
centres for research industry;  
 
(d)   information exchange on scientific and technological research;   
 
(e)    development of joint cooperation activities in third countries, as  
may be agreed by the Parties;  
   
(f)   granting  scholarships for  studies of  professional  specialization  
and intermediate studies of technical instruction;  
 
(g)   organising seminars, workshops and conferences; and  
 
(h)   any other form of cooperation agreed upon by the Parties.   
 
 
Article 16.5: Contact Point  
   
1.   The Parties shal  designate a contact point to facilitate communication  
concerning the interpretation of implementation of the Chapter  
   
2.   The contact points for the Parties are as fol ows:  
   
  (a)   For Panama:  
 
 
 
  Ministry of Trade and Industries       
  Edison Plaza, Ave, Ricardo J. Alfaro, El Paical, 2nd Floor  
 
Panama, Republic of Panama  
 
  Tel: (507) 360-0690  
  Fax : (507) 360-0691  
 
Email: admtratados@mici.gob.pa; and  
 
   
  (b)   For Singapore  
   
 
Ministry of Trade and Industry,  
 
  Trade Division,  
  100 High Street # 09-01, The Treasury,  
 
Singapore 179434, Republic of Singapore  
 
  Tel: (65) 6225 9911  
  Fax: (65) 6332 7260  
 
Email: mti_fta@mti.gov.sg 
 
  .  
  or their successors or designated contact points.  
 
 
3.   The Parties wil  make maximum use of diplomatic channels to promote  
dialogue and cooperation consistent with this Agreement.   
 
 
 
 
 
16 - 3  
 
 
 
 
Article 16.6: General  
 
Any  cooperative  activity  agreed  to  between  the  Parties pursuant  to  this 
Chapter  shal   be  in  writing  and  shal   specify  the  objectives,  financial  and  
technical resources required, work timelines, as wel  as the tasks that must be  
performed   by   each   Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 - 4  
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 16.2  
POSSIBLE AREAS OF PROMOTION AND ATTRACTION OF   
INVESTMENT AND COOPERATION   
 
TRADE AND INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AGENDA  
 
le  
 
nt  
tion  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.2 - 1  
 
 
 
 
POSSIBLE AREAS FOR TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC  
COOPERATION  
 
TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC PROMOTION AGENDA  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.2 - 2 