Annex 2-A 
ANNEX 2-A 
ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
 
1.  The following staging categories shall apply to the elimination of customs duties by 
each Party pursuant to Article 2.6 (Reduction and/or Elimination of Customs Duties on 
Imports) as provided in the respective Party’s Schedules included in this Annex: 
 
(a)  customs duties on originating goods provided for in items in staging category 
“0” shall be eliminated entirely and such goods will be duty free on the date this 
Agreement enters into force; 
 
(b)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided  for  in  the  items  in  staging 
category “6” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in six (6) equal annual 
stages beginning on  31 December of the  year of entry into force of this 
Agreement, and such goods shall be free of any customs duties, effective 31 
December of year six (6); 
 
(c)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided  for  in  the  items  in  staging 
category “10” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in five (5) equal annual 
stages beginning on 31 December of year six (6), and such goods shall be free 
of any customs duties, effective 31 December of year ten (10). 
 
(d)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided  for  in  the  items  in  staging 
category “12” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in six (6) equal annual 
stages beginning on 31 December of year seven (7), and such goods shall be 
free of any customs duties, effective 31 December of year twelve (12). 
 
(e)  customs  duties  on  originating  goods  provided  for  in  the  items  in  staging 
category “15” in a Party’s Schedule shall be removed in five (5) equal annual 
stages beginning on 31 December of year eleven (11), and such goods shall be 
free of any customs duties, effective 31 December of year fifteen (15). 
 
(f)  no obligations under this Agreement regarding customs duties shall apply with 
respect to items in staging category “X”. 
 
2.  In relation to goods under a particular tariff code, the base rate of the customs duty and 
the staging category for determining the interim rate of the customs duty at each stage 
of reduction are indicated for that tariff code in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
3.  For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Annex, rates of customs duties in the interim 
stages shall be rounded down, at least to the nearest tenth of a percentage point. 
 
4.  For the purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule, “year one” means the year of 
entry into force of this Agreement and “year two” means the calendar year following 
“year one” and so on. 
 
5.  For the purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule, each annual stage of tariff 
reduction under sub-paragraphs 1(b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Annex shall take effect on 
31 December of the relevant year. 
1 
 Annex 2-A 
 
6.  Appendices 2-A-1 and 2-A-2 form an integral part of this Annex. 
2 
 