Annex 16-A 
1 
ANNEX 16-A 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ARBITRATORS  
 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
In this Code of Conduct: 
 
(a) 
“arbitrator” means a member of an arbitration panel established under Article 
16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel); 
 
(b) 
“candidate” means an individual who is under consideration for selection as 
an arbitrator under Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration 
Panel); 
 
(c) 
“assistant” means a person who, under the terms of appointment of an 
arbitrator, conducts research or provides assistance to the arbitrator; 
 
(d) 
“proceeding”, unless otherwise specified, means an arbitration panel 
proceeding under Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement); 
 
(e) 
“staff”, in respect of an arbitrator, means persons under the direction and 
control of the arbitrator, other than assistants.  
 
 
Responsibilities to the Process 
2. 
Throughout the proceedings, every candidate and arbitrator shall avoid impropriety 
and the appearance of impropriety, shall be independent and impartial, shall avoid 
direct and indirect conflicts of interests and shall observe high standards of conduct so 
that the integrity and impartiality of the dispute settlement mechanism are preserved. 
Arbitrators shall not take instructions from any organisation or government with 
regard to matters before an arbitration panel.  
 
 
Disclosure Obligations 
 
3. 
Prior to confirmation of his or her selection as an arbitrator under Chapter 16 (Dispute 
Settlement), a candidate shall disclose any interest, relationship or matter that is likely 
to affect his or her independence or impartiality or that might reasonably create an 
appearance of impropriety or bias in the proceeding. To this end, a candidate shall 
make all reasonable efforts to become aware of any such interests, relationships and 
matters.  
 
Annex 16-A 
2 
4. 
A candidate or an arbitrator shall only communicate matters concerning actual or 
potential violations of this Code of Conduct to the Joint Committee for consideration 
by the Parties.  
 
5. 
Once selected, an arbitrator shall continue to make all reasonable efforts to become 
aware of any interests, relationships or matters referred to in paragraph 3 of this 
Annex and shall disclose them. The disclosure obligation is a continuing duty which 
requires an arbitrator to disclose any such interests, relationships or matters that may 
arise during any stage of the proceeding at the earliest time the arbitrator becomes 
aware of it. The arbitrator shall disclose such interests, relationships or matters by 
informing the Joint Committee, in writing, for consideration by the Parties.  
Disclosure of an interest, relationship or matter is without prejudice as to whether that 
interest, relationship or matter is indeed covered by paragraph 3 or this paragraph of 
this Annex, or whether it warrants recusal or disqualification.  In the event of 
uncertainty regarding whether an interest, relationship or matter must be disclosed, a 
candidate or arbitrator should err in favour of disclosure. 
 
 
Duties of Arbitrators 
 
6. 
Upon selection, an arbitrator shall perform his or her duties thoroughly and 
expeditiously throughout the course of the proceeding, and with fairness and 
diligence, and shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) 
and its Annexes. 
 
7. 
An arbitrator shall consider only those issues raised in the proceeding and necessary 
for a ruling and shall not delegate this duty to any other person.  An arbitrator shall 
not deny other arbitrators the opportunity to participate in all aspects of the 
proceeding. 
 
8. 
An arbitrator shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that his or her assistants and 
staff are aware of, and comply with, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17 and 18 of this 
Annex.  
 
9. 
An arbitrator shall not engage in ex parte contacts concerning the proceeding. 
 
 
Independence and Impartiality of Arbitrators 
 
10. 
An arbitrator shall be independent and impartial and avoid creating an appearance of 
impropriety or bias and shall not be influenced by self-interest, outside pressure, 
political considerations, public clamour, loyalty to a Party or fear of criticism. 
 
11. 
An arbitrator shall not, directly or indirectly, incur any obligation or accept any 
benefit that would in any way interfere, or appear to interfere, with the proper 
performance of his or her duties.  
 
Annex 16-A 
3 
12. 
An arbitrator shall not use his or her position on the arbitration panel to advance any 
personal or private interests and shall avoid actions that may create the impression 
that others are in a special position to influence him or her.  
 
13. 
An arbitrator shall not allow past or ongoing financial, business, professional, family 
or social relationships or responsibilities to influence her or his conduct or judgement.  
 
14. 
An arbitrator shall avoid entering into any relationship or acquiring any financial 
interest that is likely to affect his or her impartiality or that might reasonably create an 
appearance of impropriety or bias. 
 
 
Obligations of Former Arbitrators 
 
15. 
All former arbitrators must avoid actions that may create the appearance that they 
were biased in carrying out their duties or derived any advantage from the decision or 
ruling of the arbitration panel. 
 
 
Confidentiality 
 
16. 
An arbitrator or former arbitrator shall not at any time disclose or use any non-public 
information concerning a proceeding or acquired during a proceeding except for the 
purposes of that proceeding and shall not, in particular, disclose or use any such 
information to gain a personal advantage or an advantage for others or to affect the 
interest of others.  An arbitrator shall not make any public statement regarding the 
merits of a pending panel proceeding.   
 
17. 
An arbitrator or former arbitrator shall not disclose an arbitration panel determination 
or parts thereof prior to its issuance in accordance with Chapter 16 (Dispute 
Settlement).  
 
18. 
An arbitrator or former arbitrator shall not at any time disclose the deliberations of an 
arbitration panel, or any arbitrator’s view regarding the deliberations. 
 
 
Expenses 
 
19. 
Each arbitrator shall keep a record and render a final account of the time devoted to 
the procedure and of his or her expenses, as well as the time and expenses of his or 
her assistants. 
 
 
 
 
Annex 16-A 
4 
 
