Chapter 15 – Economic and Technical Co-operation 
 
 
15-1 
 
CHAPTER 15 
ECONOMIC AND TECHNICAL CO-OPERATION 
 
 
Article 15.1 
Objectives 
 
The Parties shall seek to: 
 
(a) 
Strengthen and enhance economic co-operation between  them on the basis 
of equality and mutual benefit; 
 
(b) 
Explore new areas of and develop appropriate measures for closer 
economic co-operation as a means to greater economic integration 
between the two countries; and 
 
(c) 
Support and augment economic co-operation in accordance with 
developmental 
needs, 
including 
the 
development 
of 
regulatory 
frameworks, of each other and the welfare of their respective peoples. 
 
 
Article 15.2 
Scope of Co-operation 
  
1. 
The Parties shall promote economic co-operation between them in various 
fields, and encourage exchange of information and technical expertise in those 
fields. Such economic co-operation may include all possible areas that the 
Parties may deem fit and beneficial to their citizens and to which both Parties 
have agreed.    
 
2. 
All co-operation activities under this Chapter shall be carried out in 
accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of each Party.  
  
 
Article 15.3 
Implementation of Co-operation 
 
1. 
Co-operation between the Parties in various areas identified under this Chapter 
shall be effected, where applicable, through relevant Memoranda of 
Understanding, Agreements or Protocols that have been concluded between 
the Parties and so long as they remain in force.  
 
2. 
Where such Memoranda of Understanding, Agreements or Protocols do not 
cover areas of co-operation identified in Article 15.4 (Areas of Co-operation), 
the Parties shall consult in good faith concerning the making of arrangements 
for such activities, through the conclusion of appropriate Memoranda of 
Understanding, Agreements or Protocols between authorised institutions or 
bodies in accordance with the laws and regulations in force from time to time 
in each country. 
 
Chapter 15 – Economic and Technical Co-operation 
 
 
15-2 
 
 
 
Article 15.4 
Areas of Co-operation  
 
1. 
The areas of co-operation may include, but are not limited to, the following 
fields: 
 
(a) 
Construction and Building;  
 
(b) 
Customs Procedures and Trade Facilitation; 
 
(c) 
Energy;  
 
(d) 
Environment Protection; 
 
(e) 
Financial Services; 
 
(f) 
Intellectual Property Rights; 
 
(g) 
Investment and Trade Promotion; 
 
(h) 
Manufacturing;  
 
(i) 
Science and Technology; 
 
(j) 
Small and Medium Enterprises; 
 
(k) 
Transport and Infrastructure; 
 
(l) 
Tourism and Hospitality; and 
 
(m) 
Urban Solutions. 
 
2. 
The areas of co-operation may be reviewed, expanded and updated through 
consultation between the Parties.  
 
3. 
Proposals for the review, expansion and update of this Chapter, may be 
submitted by either Party to the Joint Committee established under Chapter 17 
(Institutional, General and Final Provisions) for consideration. Implementation 
of co-operation in such new areas shall proceed in accordance with and subject 
to the fulfilment of the requirements outlined in Article 15.3 (Implementation 
of Co-operation). 
 
4. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as preventing the Parties from 
entering into new economic co-operation agreements and/or programmes, with 
a view to further enhancing the economic and technical co-operation between 
the Parties. 
 
 
Chapter 15 – Economic and Technical Co-operation 
 
 
15-3 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 15.5 
Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
1. 
Neither Party shall have recourse to any dispute settlement procedure in 
respect of the provisions under this Chapter. Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) 
shall not apply to this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Any differences or dispute between the Parties concerning the interpretation or 
implementation of this Chapter shall be resolved through consultations 
between the Parties. Consultations shall take place in the Joint Committee 
established under Chapter 17 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions). 
