Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
CHAPTER 17 
INSTITUTIONAL, GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 17.1 
Joint Committee 
 
1.  The  Parties  hereby  establish  a  Joint  Committee  comprising  representatives  of 
Singapore and Sri Lanka. 
 
2.  The first meeting of the Joint Committee shall be held within one (1) year after the 
entry into force of this Agreement. Thereafter, the Joint Committee shall meet every 
two (2) years in Singapore or Sri Lanka alternately, unless the Parties agree otherwise.  
The  Joint  Committee  shall  be  co-chaired  by  the  representatives  appointed  by 
Singapore and Sri Lanka. The Joint Committee shall agree on its meeting schedule 
and set its agenda.  
 
3.  The Joint Committee shall: 
 
(a)  ensure that this Agreement operates properly; 
 
(b)  supervise and facilitate the implementation and application of this Agreement, 
and further its general aims; 
 
(c)  supervise the work of all sub-committees, working groups and other bodies 
established under this Agreement;  
 
(d)  consider ways to further enhance trade relations between the Parties; 
 
(e)  without prejudice to Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement), seek to solve problems 
which might arise in areas covered by this Agreement; and 
 
(f)  consider  any  other  matter  of  interest  relating  to  an  area  covered  by  this 
Agreement. 
 
4.  The Joint Committee may: 
 
(a)  decide to establish or dissolve sub-committees, or allocate responsibilities to 
them; 
 
(b)  communicate with all interested parties including private sector and civil 
society organisations; 
 
(c)  take decisions in the matters related to this Agreement where the Joint 
Committee is specifically empowered to do so; 
 
(d)  consider and recommend amendments to this Agreement;  
 
(e)  adopt  interpretations  of  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  which  shall  be 
17-1 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
binding on the Parties and all bodies set up under this Agreement including 
arbitration panels referred to under Chapter 10 (Investment) and Chapter 16 
(Dispute Settlement);  
 
(f)  adopt decisions or make recommendations as envisaged by this Agreement; 
 
(g)  adopt its own rules of procedure; and 
 
(h)  take any other action in the exercise of its functions as the Parties may agree. 
 
 
Article 17.2 
Committees and Working Groups 
 
1.  The Joint Committee may set up sub-committees, working groups or any other bodies 
it deems appropriate. 
 
2.  The  composition,  frequency  of  meetings,  and  functions  of  the  sub-committees, 
working groups or any other bodies may be established either by relevant provisions 
of this Agreement or by the Joint Committee acting consistently with this Agreement. 
 
3.  The  sub-committees,  working  groups  or  any  other  bodies  shall  inform  the  Joint 
Committee of their schedule and agenda sufficiently in advance of their meetings. 
They shall report to the Joint Committee on their activities at each regular meeting of 
the Joint Committee. The creation or existence of a sub-committee, a working group 
or any other body shall not prevent either Party from bringing any matter directly to 
the Joint Committee.  
  
4.  The Joint Committee may decide to change or undertake the task assigned to a sub-
committee, a working group or any other body; or may dissolve a sub-committee, a 
working group or any other body. 
 
 
Article 17.3 
Evolving WTO Law 
 
If  any  provision  of  the  WTO  Agreement  that  the  Parties  have  incorporated  into  this 
Agreement is amended, the Parties shall consult with each other, via the Joint Committee, 
with a view to finding a mutually satisfactory solution, where necessary.  
 
 
Article 17.4 
Decision Making 
 
1.  The  Joint  Committee  shall,  for  the  purpose  of  attaining  the  objectives  of  this 
Agreement, have the power to take decisions in respect of all matters in the cases 
provided by this Agreement, without prejudice to the Parties’ respective applicable 
legal requirements and procedures. 
 
17-2 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
2.  The decisions taken shall be binding on the Parties, which shall take the necessary 
measures  to  implement  the  decisions  taken  in  accordance  with  their  respective 
applicable legal requirements and procedures. The Joint Committee may also make 
appropriate recommendations. 
 
3.  The Joint Committee shall draw up its decisions and recommendations by agreement 
between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 17.5 
Taxation 
 
1.   Except as provided in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shall apply to taxation 
measures.  
 
2.   Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of either Party under 
any tax agreement to which both Parties are parties. In the event of any inconsistency 
between this Agreement and any such agreement, that agreement shall prevail to the 
extent of the inconsistency. In the case of a bilateral tax agreement between the 
Parties, the competent authorities under that agreement shall have sole responsibility 
for determining whether any inconsistency exists between this Agreement and that 
agreement. 
 
3.   Notwithstanding  paragraph  2  of  this  Article,  Article  2.3  (National  Treatment)  of 
Chapter  2  (National  Treatment  and  Market  Access  for  Goods)  and  such  other 
provisions of this Agreement as are necessary to give effect to that Article shall apply 
to taxation measures to the same extent as does Article III of the GATT 1994. 
  
4.   For the purposes of this Article:  
 
(a)  “competent authorities” means: 
 
(i)  for Singapore, the Chief Tax Policy Officer, Ministry of Finance, or his 
successor  or  such  other  public  officer  as  may  be  designated  by 
Singapore; and 
 
(ii)  for Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, or his 
successor or such other public officer as may be designated by Sri 
Lanka; 
 
(b)  “tax agreement” means an agreement for the avoidance of double taxation or 
other international taxation agreement or arrangement; and 
 
(c)  taxation measures do not include: 
 
(i)  customs duties; or  
 
17-3 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
(ii)  the measures listed in sub-paragraphs 2(b), 2(c) and 2(d) of Article 2.4 
(Customs Duty) of Chapter 2 (National Treatment and Market Access 
for Goods). 
 
 
Article 17.6 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance-of-Payments  
 
1.  Where a Party is in serious balance-of-payments and external financial difficulties, or 
under threat thereof, it may adopt or maintain restrictive measures with regard to trade 
in  goods,  cross  border  trade  in  services  and  investments,  and  on  payments  and 
transfers related to cross border trade in services and investments. 
 
2.   The  Parties  shall  endeavour  to  avoid  the  application  of  the  restrictive  measures 
referred  to  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Article.  Any  restrictive  measures  adopted  or 
maintained under this Article shall be non-discriminatory, avoid unnecessary damage 
to the commercial, economic, and financial interests of the other Party, be temporary 
and be phased out progressively as the situation specified in paragraph 1  of this 
Article improves, and not go beyond what is necessary to remedy the balance-of-
payments and external financial situation. They shall also be in accordance with the 
conditions established in the WTO Agreement and be consistent with the Articles of 
Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, as applicable. 
 
3.   Any Party maintaining or having adopted restrictive measures, or any changes thereto, 
shall promptly notify the other Party of them. 
 
4.   Where the restrictive measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are adopted or 
maintained,  consultations  shall  be  held  promptly  by  the  Joint  Committee.  Such 
consultations shall assess the balance-of-payments situation of the Party concerned 
and the restrictive measures adopted or maintained under this Article, taking into 
account, inter alia, factors such as: 
 
(a)   the  nature  and  extent  of  the  balance-of-payments  and  external  financial 
difficulties; 
 
(b)  the external economic and trading environment; or 
 
(c)   alternative corrective measures which may be available. 
 
The  consultations  shall  address  the  compliance  of  any  restrictive  measures  with 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. All findings of statistical and other facts presented 
by the IMF relating to foreign exchange, monetary reserves and balance-of-payments 
shall be accepted, and conclusions shall be based on the assessment by the IMF of the 
balance-of-payments and external financial situation of the Party concerned. 
 
 
 
 
 
17-4 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
Article 17.7 
General Exceptions 
 
1.   Article XX of the GATT 1994 and its interpretive notes are incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of:  
 
(a)  Chapter 2 (National Treatment and Market Access for Goods), Protocol 1 
(Concerning  the  Definition  of  the  Concept  of  “Originating  Products”  and 
Methods  of  Administrative  Co-operation),  Chapter  3  (Trade  Remedies), 
Chapter  4  (Sanitary  and  Phytosanitary  Measures),  Chapter  5  (Technical 
Barriers to Trade), Chapter 6 (Customs Procedures and Trade Facilitation); 
and  
 
(b)  Chapter 9 (Electronic Commerce) and Annex 7-C (Financial Services), except 
to  the  extent  that  a  provision  of  these  Chapters  applies  to  services  or 
investment.  
 
The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article XX(b) of the GATT 
1994 include environmental measures necessary to protect human, animal, or plant 
life or health, and that Article XX(g) of the GATT 1994 applies to measures relating 
to the conservation of living and non-living exhaustible natural resources.  
 
2.   Article XIV of the GATS (including its footnotes) is incorporated into and made part 
of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis, for the purposes of:   
 
(a)  Chapter 7 (Trade in Services), Chapter 8 (Telecommunications) and Annex 7-
C (Financial Services); and  
 
(b)  Chapter 9 (Electronic Commerce) to the extent that a provision of this Chapter 
applies to services.  
  
The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article XIV(b) of the GATS 
include environmental measures necessary to protect human, animal, or plant life or 
health. 
 
 
Article 17.8 
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:  
 
(a)  to require a Party to furnish or allow access to any information the disclosure of which 
it determines to be contrary to its essential security interests; or  
 
(b)  to  preclude  a  Party  from  applying  measures  that  it  considers  necessary  for  the 
fulfilment  of  its  obligations  with  respect  to  the  maintenance  or  restoration  of 
international peace or security, or the protection of its own essential security interests. 
 
 
17-5 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
 
Article 17.9 
Disclosure of Information 
 
1.   Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to make available 
confidential information, the disclosure of which would be in violation of its domestic 
law, impede law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which 
would prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or 
private. 
 
2.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, where a Party provides information to 
the other Party (or to the Joint Committee, sub-committees, working groups or any 
other bodies) in accordance with this Agreement and designates the information as 
confidential, the Party (or the Joint Committee, sub-committees, working groups or 
any other bodies) receiving the information shall maintain the confidentiality of the 
information,  use  it  only  for  the  purposes  specified  by  the  Party  providing  the 
information,  and  not  disclose  it  without  specific  written  permission  of  the  Party 
providing the information except to the extent that it may be required to be disclosed 
in the context of judicial proceedings. Where the confidential information is required 
to be disclosed in the context of judicial proceedings, the Party who had received the 
information shall inform the Party that had provided the information of any such 
requirement to disclose as soon as possible and in any event prior to making the 
disclosure. 
 
 
Article 17.10 
Amendments 
 
1.  The Parties may agree, in writing, to amend this Agreement.  
 
2.  Amendments to this Agreement shall be approved by the Parties in accordance with 
their respective legal procedures, and amendments shall enter into force on the first 
day of the second month following the date on which the Parties exchange written 
notifications  certifying  that  they  have  completed  their  respective  applicable  legal 
requirements and procedures, or on a date to be agreed upon by the Parties. 
 
 
Article 17.11 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  This Agreement shall be approved by the Parties in accordance with their respective 
legal procedures. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following 
the date on which the Parties exchange written notifications certifying that they have 
completed their respective applicable legal requirements and procedures for the entry 
into force of this Agreement.  
 
 
17-6 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
Article 17.12 
Duration 
 
1.  This Agreement shall be valid indefinitely. 
 
2.  Either Party may notify in writing the other Party of its intention to terminate this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  This  Agreement  shall  be  terminated  one  (1)  year  after  the  notification  under 
paragraph 2 of this Article. This is without prejudice to specific provisions in this 
Agreement which qualify the effect of the termination, namely, Article 10.24 (Savings 
Clause). 
 
4.  Within thirty (30) days of delivery of a notification under paragraph 2 of this Article, 
either  Party  may  request  consultations  regarding  whether  the  termination  of  any 
provision of this Agreement should take effect at a later date than provided under 
paragraph 2 of this Article. Such consultations shall commence within thirty (30) days 
of a Party’s delivery of such request. 
 
 
Article 17.13 
Annexes, Appendices, Side Letters and Protocols  
 
The  Annexes,  Appendices,  Side  Letters  and  Protocols  to  this  Agreement  shall  form  an 
integral part thereof. 
 
 
Article 17.14 
Relations with Other Agreements 
 
1.   The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other 
under existing bilateral and multilateral agreements to which both Parties are party, 
including the WTO Agreement.  
 
2.  In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and other agreements to 
which both Parties are party, the Parties shall immediately consult each other with a 
view to finding a mutually satisfactory solution, taking into consideration general 
principles of international law. 
 
3.   Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Article, if this Agreement explicitly contains 
provisions dealing with such inconsistency as indicated in paragraph 2 of this Article, 
those provisions shall apply.  
 
4.   For the purposes of this Agreement, any reference to articles in the GATT 1994 or the 
GATS includes the interpretative notes, where applicable. 
 
 
 
 
17-7 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
 
Article 17.15 
Territorial Application 
 
This Agreement shall apply: 
 
(a)  with respect to Sri Lanka, to its territory as defined in Article 1.3 (Definitions of 
General Application); and 
 
(b)  with respect to Singapore, to its territory as defined in Article 1.3 (Definitions of 
General Application). 
 
 
Article 17.16 
Contact Points 
 
1.   For the purposes of this Agreement, all communications or notifications to or by a 
Party shall be made through its contact point. 
 
2.   For the purposes of this Article, the contact points of the Parties are: 
 
(a)  for Sri Lanka, Secretary, Ministry of Development Strategies and International 
Trade , or its successor; and 
 
(b)   for Singapore, the Director of Emerging Markets Division, Ministry of Trade 
and Industry, or its successor. 
 
3.   Each Party shall notify the other Party of any changes in its contact point in due time.   
 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned,  being  duly  authorised  by  their  respective 
Governments, have signed this Agreement.  
 
Done at Colombo, Sri Lanka, in duplicate, this twenty-third day of January 2018. 
 
 
 
For the Government of the  For the Government of the Democratic 
Republic of Singapore:  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka: 
 
   
   
S Iswaran    Malik Samarawickrama 
Minister  for  Trade  and  Industry  Minister for Development Strategies and 
(Industry)  International Trade 
  
17-8 Chapter 17 – Institutional, General and Final Provisions 
 
17-9 