Annex 16-B 
1 
ANNEX 16-B 
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR ARBITRATION 
 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
For the purposes of Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) and this Annex: 
 
(a) 
“advisor” means a person retained by a Party to advise or assist that Party in 
connection with the arbitration panel proceeding; 
 
(b) 
“arbitration panel” means a panel established under Article 16.7 
(Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel);  
 
(c) 
“arbitrator” means a member of an arbitration panel established under Article 
16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel);   
 
(d) 
“assistant” means a person who, under the terms of appointment of an 
arbitrator, conducts research or provides assistance to the arbitrator; 
 
(e) 
“complaining Party” means a Party that requests the establishment of an 
arbitration panel under Article 16.5 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure); 
  
(f) 
“Party complained against” means the Party that is alleged to be in violation 
of the provisions referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope); and 
 
(g) 
“representative of a Party” means any person appointed by a government 
department or agency or any other public entity of a Party to represent the Party for 
the purposes of a dispute under this Agreement.  
 
 
Logistical Administration 
 
2. 
The Party complained against shall be in charge of the logistical administration of 
dispute settlement proceedings, in particular the organisation of hearings, unless 
otherwise agreed. 
  
 
Notifications 
 
3. 
The Parties and the arbitration panel shall transmit any request, notice, written 
submission or other document by e-mail, with a copy submitted on the same day by 
registered post, courier, facsimile transmission, delivery against receipt or any other 
means of telecommunication that provides a record of the sending thereof. Unless 
proven otherwise, an e-mail message shall be deemed to be received on the same date 
of its sending. 
 
4. 
A Party shall provide an electronic copy of each of its written submissions and 
rebuttals to the other Party and to each of the arbitrators.  A paper copy of the 
Annex 16-B 
2 
document shall also be provided. 
 
5. 
All notifications shall be addressed and delivered to the Secretary, Ministry of 
Development Strategies and International Trade or its successor and to, the Director 
of Emerging Markets Division, Ministry of Trade and Industry of Singapore or its 
successor, respectively. 
 
6. 
Minor errors of a clerical nature in any request, notice, written submission or other 
document related to the arbitration panel proceeding may unless the other Party 
objects, be corrected by delivery, in accordance with Rules 2 to 5 of this Annex,  of a 
new document clearly indicating the changes. 
 
7. 
If the last day for delivery of a document falls on a non-business day or a public 
holiday of either Party, the document may be delivered on the next business day. 
 
 
Commencing the Arbitrations 
 
8. 
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, they shall meet the arbitration panel within seven 
(7) days of the date of the establishment of the arbitration panel in order to determine 
such matters that the Parties or the arbitration panel deems appropriate, including the 
remuneration and expenses to be paid to the arbitrators. Arbitrators and 
representatives of the Parties may take part in this meeting via telephone or video 
conference. 
 
 
Initial Submissions 
 
9.  
The complaining Party shall deliver its initial written submission no later than twenty 
(20) days after the date of establishment of the arbitration panel. The Party 
complained against shall deliver its written counter-submission no later than twenty 
(20) days after the date of delivery of the initial written submission.  
 
 
Working of Arbitration Panels 
 
10. 
The chairperson of the arbitration panel shall preside at all of its meetings. An 
arbitration panel may delegate to the chairperson authority to make administrative and 
procedural decisions. 
 
11. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the arbitration panel may conduct its 
activities by any means, including telephone, facsimile transmissions or computer 
links. 
 
12. 
Only arbitrators may take part in the deliberations of the arbitration panel but the 
arbitration panel may permit its assistants to be present at its deliberations. It shall be 
the exclusive responsibility of the arbitration panel to consider all issues raised during 
the proceedings and draft any decision, determination or recommendation and this 
responsibility shall not be delegated. 
Annex 16-B 
3 
 
13. 
Where a procedural question arises that is not covered by this Agreement, the 
arbitration panel may adopt an appropriate procedure, in consultation with the Parties, 
that is not inconsistent with this Agreement.  
 
14. 
When the arbitration panel considers that there is a need to modify any time period 
applicable in the proceeding, or to make any other procedural or administrative 
adjustment in the proceeding, it shall inform the Parties in writing of the reasons for 
the modification or adjustment with the indication of the period or adjustment needed. 
 
 
Replacement of Arbitrators 
 
15. 
If an arbitrator becomes unable to participate in the proceeding or resigns, or is to be 
replaced, a successor shall be selected in accordance with Article 16.7 (Composition 
and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
 
16. 
Where a Party considers that an arbitrator does not comply with the requirements of 
the Code of Conduct under Annex 16-A (Code of Conduct for Arbitrators) 
(hereinafter referred to as “Code of Conduct”), and for this reason should be replaced, 
this Party should notify the other Party within fifteen (15) days from the time at which 
it came to know of the circumstances underlying the arbitrator’s non-compliance with 
the Code of Conduct. 
 
17. 
Where a Party considers that an arbitrator other than the chairperson does not comply 
with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, the Parties shall consult and, if they so 
agree, replace the arbitrator and select a replacement following the procedure set out 
in Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel).  
 
18. 
If the Parties fail to agree on the need to replace the arbitrator, any Party may request 
that such matter be referred to the chairperson of the arbitration panel, whose decision 
shall be final. If, pursuant to such a request, the chairperson finds that the arbitrator 
did not comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, a new arbitrator shall 
be selected. The Party which had selected the arbitrator who needs to be replaced, 
shall select a new arbitrator in accordance with Article 16.7 (Composition and 
Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). If the Party fails to select a new arbitrator 
within five (5) days of the finding of the chairperson of the arbitration panel, the 
chairperson shall request the Director-General of the WTO to make the appointment 
within twenty (20) days.  
 
19. 
Where a Party considers that the chairperson of the arbitration panel does not comply 
with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, the Parties shall consult and, if they 
so agree, replace the chairperson and select a replacement following the procedure 
set out in Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel).  
 
20. 
If the Parties fail to agree on the need to replace the chairperson, any Party may 
request that such matter be referred to a neutral third party. If the Parties are unable 
to agree on a neutral third party, such matter shall be referred to the Director-General 
of the WTO whose decision on the need to replace the chairperson shall be final. If 
Annex 16-B 
4 
the neutral third party or the Director-General of the WTO as the case may be 
decides that the original chairperson did not comply with the requirements of the 
Code of Conduct, the Parties shall agree on the replacement. If the Parties fail to 
agree on a new chairperson, the Director-General of the WTO shall, at the request of 
any Party, select the new chairperson within twenty (20) days of the request. 
 
21. 
The arbitration panel proceedings shall be suspended for the period taken to carry out 
the procedures provided for in Rules 15 to 20 of this Annex. 
 
 
Hearings 
 
22. 
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, at least one (1) hearing shall be held. The 
chairperson shall fix the date and time of the hearing in consultation with the Parties 
and the other arbitrators and confirm this in writing to the Parties. This information 
shall also be made publicly available by the Party in charge of the logistical 
administration of the proceeding when the hearing is open to the public.  
 
23. 
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the hearing shall be held in Singapore where the 
complaining Party is Sri Lanka, or in Colombo, Sri Lanka where the complaining 
Party is Singapore.  
 
24. 
The arbitration panel may convene additional hearings if the Parties so agree. 
 
25. 
All arbitrators shall be present during the entirety of any hearing. 
 
26. 
Representatives of a Party, advisors to a Party, administration staff, interpreters, 
translators and rapporteurs and arbitrators’ assistants may attend the hearings, 
irrespective of whether the hearings are open to the public or not. Only the 
representatives and advisors of a Party may address the arbitration panel. 
 
27. 
No later than five (5) days before the date of a hearing, each Party shall deliver to the 
arbitration panel and simultaneously to the other Party a list of the names of those 
persons who will make oral arguments or presentations at the hearing on behalf of that 
Party and of other representatives or advisors who will be attending the hearing. 
 
28. 
The hearings of the arbitration panels shall be closed to the public. The Parties may 
decide to open the hearings partially or completely to the public. The arbitration panel 
shall meet in closed sessions when the submissions and arguments of a Party contain 
confidential information. 
 
29. 
The arbitration panel shall conduct the hearing in the following manner, ensuring that 
the complaining Party and the Party complained against are afforded equal time: 
 
Submissions 
 
(a) 
submission of the complaining Party; and 
 
(b) 
counter-submission of the Party complained against. 
Annex 16-B 
5 
 
Rebuttals 
 
(a) 
rebuttal of the complaining Party; and 
 
(b) 
counter-rebuttal of the Party complained against. 
 
30. 
The arbitration panel may direct questions to either Party at any time during a hearing. 
 
31. 
The arbitration panel shall arrange for a transcript of each hearing to be prepared and 
delivered as soon as possible to the Parties. 
 
32. 
Within ten (10) days of the date of the hearing, with the agreement of the arbitration 
panel, each Party may deliver to the arbitration panel and simultaneously to the other 
Party a supplementary written submission responding to any matter that arose during 
the hearing. 
 
 
Questions in Writing 
 
33. 
The arbitration panel may at any time during the proceedings address questions in 
writing to one or both Parties. The arbitration panel shall ensure that each of the 
Parties receive a copy of any questions put by the arbitration panel.  
 
34. 
Each Party shall also provide a copy of its written response to the arbitration panel’s 
questions to the arbitration panel and simultaneously to the other Party. Each Party 
shall be given the opportunity to provide written comments on the other Party’s reply 
within five (5) days of the date of receipt. 
 
 
Confidentiality 
 
35. 
The Parties and their advisors shall maintain the confidentiality of the arbitration 
panel hearings where the hearings are held in closed session, the deliberations and 
interim panel report, and all written submissions to, and communications with, the 
panel. Each Party and its advisors shall treat as confidential any information submitted 
by the other Party to the arbitration panel which that Party has designated as 
confidential. Nothing in this Annex shall preclude a Party from disclosing statements 
of its own positions to the public to the extent that, when making reference to 
information submitted by the other Party, it does not disclose any information 
designated by the other Party as confidential. 
 
Ex Parte Contacts 
 
36. 
The arbitration panel shall not meet, hear or otherwise contact a Party in the absence 
of the other Party. 
 
37. 
No arbitrator may discuss an aspect of the subject matter of the proceeding with a 
Party or both Parties in the absence of the other arbitrators. 
Annex 16-B 
6 
Urgent Cases 
 
38. 
In cases of urgency referred to in Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement), the arbitration 
panel, after consulting the Parties, shall adjust the time limits referred to in this Annex 
as appropriate and shall notify the Parties of such adjustments. 
 
 
Translation and Interpretation 
 
39. 
The common working language for the proceedings of the arbitration panel shall be 
English. If a Party decides to use interpretation during the proceedings, the 
arrangement and the cost shall be borne by that Party. 
 
40. 
Any document submitted for use in any proceedings pursuant to this Chapter shall be 
in English. If any original document is not in English, the Party submitting it for use 
in the proceedings shall provide a translation of that document. 
 
 
Computation of Time 
 
41. 
Unless otherwise specified, all time periods laid down in this Chapter shall be counted 
in calendar days, the first day being the day following the act or fact to which they 
refer. 
 
42. 
Where, by reason of the operation of Rule 7, a Party receives a document on a date 
other than the date on which the same document is received by the other Party, any 
period of time the calculation of which is dependent on such receipt shall be 
calculated from the last date of receipt of that document. 
 
 
Other Procedures 
 
43. 
Unless otherwise provided, this Annex is also applicable mutatis mutandis to 
procedures established under Articles 16.10 (Implementation of the Arbitration Panel 
Report), 16.11 (Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or Other Obligations) 
and 16.12 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply After the Suspension of 
Concessions or Other Obligations).  
 
 
