Chapter 10 – Investment 
CHAPTER 10 
INVESTMENT 
 
 
Article 10.1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  “claimant” means an investor of a Party that is a party to an investment dispute with 
the other Party;  
 
(b)  “disputing parties” means the claimant and the respondent; 
 
(c)  “disputing party” means either the claimant or the respondent; 
 
(e)  “enterprise” means any entity constituted or organised under applicable law, whether 
or  not  for  profit,  and  whether  privately  or  governmentally  owned  or  controlled, 
including  a  corporation,  trust,  partnership,  sole  proprietorship,  joint  venture, 
association, or similar organisation; and a branch of an enterprise; 
 
(f)  “enterprise of a Party” means an enterprise constituted or organised under the law of 
a Party, and a branch1 located in the territory of a Party and carrying out business 
activities there; 
 
(g)  “freely useable currency” means any currency as determined by the IMF under the 
Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  any  amendments 
thereto; 
 
(h)  “government procurement” means the process by which a government obtains the 
use of or acquires goods or services, or any combination thereof, for governmental 
purposes and not with a view to commercial sale or resale, or use in the production or 
supply of goods or services for commercial sale or resale; 
(i)  “ICLP”  means  the  Arbitration  Centre  of  the  Institute  for  the  Development  of 
Commercial Law and Practice in Sri Lanka; 
 
(j)  “intellectual property rights” means: 
 
(i)  copyright and related rights; 
 
(ii)  patents; 
 
(iii)  trademarks; 
 
                                                           
1 For greater certainty, a branch of a legal entity of a non-Party shall not be considered as an enterprise of a 
Party. 
10-1 Chapter 10 – Investment 
(iv)  designs; 
 
(v)  layout-designs (topographies) of integrated circuits; 
 
(vi)  geographical indications; and 
 
(vii)  protection of undisclosed information; 
 
(k)  “investment” means every kind of asset that an investor owns or controls, directly or 
indirectly,  that  has  the  characteristics  of  an  investment 2 ,  which  includes  the 
commitment of capital or other resources, a certain duration, the expectation of gain 
or profit, or the assumption of risk. Forms that an investment may take include3, 4: 
 
(i)  an enterprise; 
 
(ii)  shares, stock, and other forms of equity participation in an enterprise; 
 
(iii)  bonds, debentures, loans and other debt instruments5, 6 of an enterprise; 
 
(iv)  turnkey, construction, management, production, concession, revenue-sharing, 
and other similar contracts;  
 
(v)  claims to money7 or to other assets, or to any contractual performance having 
an economic value associated with an investment; 
 
(vi)  intellectual property rights8; 
 
(vii)  licences,  authorisations,  permits,  and  similar  rights  conferred  pursuant  to 
applicable domestic law; 
 
                                                           
2 Where an asset lacks the characteristics of an investment, that asset is not an investment regardless of the form 
it may take. 
3 For greater certainty, donation does not constitute an investment. 
4 The term “investment” does not include an order or judgment entered in a judicial or administrative action. 
5 Some forms of debt, such as bonds, debentures, and long term notes, are more likely to have the characteristics 
of an investment, while other forms of debt such as claims to payment that are immediately due and result from 
the sale of goods or services, are not likely to have such characteristics. 
6 For the purpose of this Chapter, “loans and other debt instruments” described in sub-paragraph (k)(iii) of 
this Article and “claims to money or to any contractual performance” described in sub-paragraph (k)(v) of 
this Article refer to assets which relate to a business activity associated with an investment and do not refer to 
assets which are of a personal nature, unrelated to any business activity associated with an investment. 
7 For greater certainty, claims to money does not include: 
(a)  claims to money that arise solely from commercial contracts for the sale of goods or services by a 
natural person or enterprise in the territory of a Party to a natural person or enterprise in the 
territory of the other Party; 
(b)  the domestic financing of such contracts; or 
(c)  any order, judgment or arbitral award related to sub-paragraph (a) or (b) above. 
8 In accordance with the relevant laws of the Party admitting the investment. 
10-2 Chapter 10 – Investment 
(viii) other  tangible  or  intangible,  movable  or  immovable  property,  and  related 
property rights, such as leases, mortgages, liens, and pledges9; 
 
(l)  “investor of a Party” means a Party, a natural person or an enterprise of a Party 
recognised as a legal entity by the laws of the other Party, that has made a covered 
investment in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(m)  “investor of a non-Party” means, with respect to a Party, an investor that has made 
an investment in the territory of that Party, that is not an investor of either Party; 
 
(n)  “measures” means any measure taken by a Party, whether in the form of a law, 
regulation, rule, procedure, decision or administrative action, and includes measures 
taken by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers  delegated  by  central, 
regional or local governments or authorities; 
 
(o)  “national” means” 
(i)  with respect to the Republic of Singapore, any person who is a citizen of 
Singapore within the meaning of its Constitution and its domestic laws; and 
 
(ii)  with respect to Sri Lanka, any person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka within the 
meaning of its Constitution and its domestic laws; 
 
(p)  “New York Convention” means the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement 
of Foreign Arbitral Awards, adopted at the United Nations in New York on 10 June 
1958; 
 
(q)  “respondent” means the Party that is a party to an investment dispute; 
 
(r)  “return” means an amount  yielded by or derived from an investment, including 
profits, dividends, interest, capital gains, royalty payments, payments in connection 
with intellectual property rights, and all other lawful income. For the purposes of the 
definition of “investment”, returns that are invested shall be treated as investments 
and any alteration of the form in which assets are invested or reinvested shall not 
affect their character as investments; 
 
(s)  “SIAC” means the Singapore International Arbitration Centre; 
 
(t)  “SLNAC” means the Sri Lanka National Arbitration Centre; and 
 
                                                           
9 For greater certainty, market share, access to market, expected gains, and opportunities for profit making are 
not, by themselves, investments. 
10-3 Chapter 10 – Investment 
(u)  “UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules” means the arbitration rules of the United Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law, as adopted by the United Nations General 
Assembly on 15 December 1976, as revised in 2010. 
 
 
SECTION 10-A 
INVESTMENT PROTECTION 
 
 
Article 10.2 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of the other Party; and 
 
(b)  all investments made by investors of one Party in the territory of the other 
Party, whether made before or after the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to: 
  
(a)  government procurement by a Party; 
 
(b)  services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority within the territory 
of the respective Party. For purposes of this Chapter, a service supplied in the 
exercise  of  governmental  authority  means  any  service  which  is  supplied 
neither on a commercial basis, nor in competition with one or more service 
suppliers; 
 
(c)  subsidies or grants provided by a Party, or to any conditions attached to the 
receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such 
subsidies  or  grants  are  offered  exclusively  to  investors  of  the  Party  or 
investments of investors of the Party, including government-supported loans, 
guarantees and insurance;  
  
(d)  any measures adopted or maintained by a Party to the extent that they are 
covered by Chapter 7 (Trade in Services). Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
Article 10.3 (Minimum Standard of Treatment), Article 10.6 (Compensation 
for Losses), Article 10.10 (Expropriation), Article 10.11 (Transfers), Article 
10.12 (Subrogation) and Section 10-B (Investment Disputes Between a Party 
and an Investor) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to any measure affecting the 
supply of service by a service supplier of a Party through commercial presence 
in the territory of the other Party pursuant to Chapter 7 (Trade in Services), but 
only to the extent that any such measures relate to an investment and an 
obligation under this Chapter, regardless of whether such a service sector is 
scheduled in the Party’s Schedule of Specific Services Commitments in Annex 
7-A (Sri Lanka) and Annex 7-B (Singapore); and 
10-4 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
(e)  any  taxation  measure,  including  measures  taken  to  enforce  taxation 
obligations. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, a Party shall not be prevented 
from taking measures for prudential reasons, including for the protection of investors, 
depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial 
service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial system. Where 
such measures do not conform with the provisions of this Chapter, they shall not be 
used  as  a  means  of  avoiding  the  Party’s  commitments  or  obligations  under  this 
Chapter. 
 
4.  In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another Chapter, the other 
Chapter shall prevail over this Chapter to the extent of the inconsistency. For the 
avoidance  of  doubt,  this  paragraph  shall  not  be  deemed  to  impose  additional 
obligations on a Party other than the obligations set out in this Chapter in respect of 
any dispute under Section 10-B (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). 
 
5.  The requirement by a Party that a service provider of the other Party post a bond or 
other form of financial security as a condition of providing a service into its territory 
does not of itself make this Chapter applicable to the provision of that cross-border 
service. This Chapter applies to that Party’s treatment of the posted bond or financial 
security, to the extent that such bond or financial security is an investment. 
 
6.  For greater certainty, the provisions of this Chapter do not impose any obligation on 
either Party in relation to any act or fact that took place or any situation that ceased to 
exist before the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
7.  In  the  event  that  a  Party  extends  protection  to  the  establishment,  acquisition  or 
expansion of investments to any non-Party after the signing of this Agreement, the 
other Party shall have the right to initiate a review of the commitments under this 
Chapter, to extend the provisions of this Chapter to the establishment, acquisition and 
expansion of investments in like circumstances. 
 
8.  Articles 10.4 (National  Treatment), 10.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), 10.7 
(Performance Requirements) and 10.8 (Senior Management and Board of Directors) 
do not apply to any measure that a Party adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, 
sub-sectors, or activities, as set out in its Schedule to Annex 10-B (Sri Lanka) and 
Annex 10-C (Singapore). 
 
9.  Neither Party may, under any measure adopted after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement and set out in its Schedule to Annex 10-B (Sri Lanka) and Annex 10-C 
(Singapore), require an investor of the other Party, by reason of its nationality, to sell 
or otherwise dispose of an investment existing at the time the measure becomes 
effective. 
 
10-5 Chapter 10 – Investment 
10.  Articles 10.4 (National Treatment) and 10.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) do 
not  apply to  any measure that is  an exception to,  or derogation from,  a Party’s 
obligations under Chapter 13 (Intellectual Property) and the TRIPS Agreement, as 
specifically provided for in that Agreement. 
 
 
Article 10.3 
Minimum Standard of Treatment 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  investments  treatment  in  accordance  with  customary 
international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens10, including “fair and 
equitable treatment” and “full protection and security”. 
 
2.  For  greater  certainty,  paragraph  1  of  this  Article  prescribes  the  customary 
international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens as the minimum standard 
of  treatment  to  be  afforded  to  investments.  The  concepts  of  “fair  and  equitable 
treatment” and “full protection and security” do not require treatment in addition to or 
beyond  that  which  is  required  by  that  standard,  and  do  not  create  additional 
substantive rights. The obligation to provide:  
 
(a)  “fair  and  equitable  treatment”  requires  the  Parties  not  to  deny  justice  in 
criminal, civil or administrative adjudicatory proceedings in accordance with 
the principle of due process; and   
 
(b)  “full protection and security” requires each Party to provide the level of police 
protection in relation to the physical security of investors and investments as 
required under customary international law. 
 
3.  A determination that there has been a breach of another provision of this Agreement, 
or of a separate international agreement, does not establish that there has been a 
breach of this Article. 
 
 
Article 10.4 
National Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no less favourable 
than that it accords, in like circumstances11, to its own investors with respect to the 
management, conduct, operation, and sale or other disposition of investments in its 
territory. 
                                                           
10 Customary international law results from a general and consistent practice of States that they follow from a 
sense of legal obligation. With regard to this Article, the customary international law minimum standard of 
treatment of aliens refers to all customary international law principles that protect the economic rights and 
interests of aliens.   
11 For greater certainty, whether treatment is accorded in “like circumstances” depends on the totality of the 
circumstances, including whether the relevant treatment distinguishes between investors or investments on the 
basis of legitimate public welfare objectives. 
10-6 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  investments  treatment  no  less  favourable  than  that  it 
accords, in like circumstances, to investments in its territory of its own investors with 
respect  to  the  management,  conduct,  operation,  and  sale  or  other  disposition  of 
investments. 
 
 
Article 10.5 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party treatment no less favourable 
than that it accords, in like circumstances, to investors of any non-Party with respect 
to the management, conduct, operation, and sale or other disposition of investments in 
its territory. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  investments  treatment  no  less  favourable  than  that  it 
accords, in like circumstances, to investments in its territory of investors of any non-
Party  with  respect  to  the  management,  conduct,  operation,  and  sale  or  other 
disposition of investments. 
 
3.  For greater certainty, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not be construed as 
granting to investors options or procedures for the settlement of disputes other than 
those set out in Section 10-B (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). 
 
4.  The treatment, as set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, shall not include: 
 
(a)  any preferential treatment accorded to investors or their investments under any 
existing  bilateral,  regional,  multilateral  or  international  agreements  or 
arrangements or any forms of economic and regional cooperation with any 
non-Party; 
 
(b)  in the case of Singapore, any measure that accords preferential treatment to 
ASEAN member states under any agreements between all ASEAN member 
states, in force or signed after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  such  agreements  do  not  include  agreements 
between ASEAN member states and non-ASEAN member states; and 
 
(c)  in the case of Sri Lanka, any measure that accords preferential treatment to 
SAARC member states under any agreements between all SAARC member 
states, in force or signed after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  such  agreements  do  not  include  agreements 
between SAARC member states and non-SAARC member states. 
 
 
 
 
 
10-7 Chapter 10 – Investment 
Article 10.6 
Compensation for Losses 
 
1.  Investors of one Party whose investments in the territory of the other Party suffer 
losses owing to war or other armed conflict, revolution, a state of national emergency, 
insurrection, riot, or any other similar event in the territory of the latter Party, shall be 
accorded  by  the  latter  Party  treatment,  as  regards  restitution,  indemnification, 
compensation or other settlement, no less favourable than that which the latter Party 
accords to investments of its own investors or investments of investors of any non-
Party, whichever is more favourable, to the investment of the investor of the former 
Party. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, if an investor of a Party, in the situations 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, suffers a loss in the territory of the other 
Party resulting from: 
 
(a)  requisitioning  of  its  investment  or  part  thereof  by  the  latter’s  forces  or 
authorities; or 
 
(b)  destruction of its investment or part thereof by the latter’s forces or authorities, 
which was not required by the necessity of the situation, 
 
the  latter  Party  shall  provide  the  investor  restitution,  compensation,  or  both,  as 
appropriate, for such loss. 
 
 
Article 10.7 
Performance Requirements 
 
The provisions of Annex 1A to the TRIMs Agreement, which are not specifically mentioned 
in or modified by this Chapter, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 10.8 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
1.  A Party shall not require that an enterprise of that Party that is an investment appoint 
to senior management positions natural persons of any particular nationality. 
 
2.  A Party may require that a majority of the board of directors, or any committee 
thereof,  of  an  enterprise  of  that  Party  that  is  an  investment,  be  of  a  particular 
nationality, or resident in the territory of the Party, provided that the requirement does 
not materially impair the ability of the investor of the other Party to exercise control 
over its investment. 
 
3.  For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Article shall be construed to limit a Party 
from exercising its rights as a shareholder. 
10-8 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
 
Article 10.9 
Special Formalities and Treatment of Information 
 
1.  Nothing in Article 12.4 (National Treatment) shall be construed to prevent a Party 
from  adopting  or  maintaining  a  measure  that  prescribes  special  formalities  in 
connection with investments, such as residency requirements for registration or a 
requirement that investments be legally constituted under its laws or regulations, 
provided that such formalities do not materially impair the protections afforded by the 
Party to investors of the other Party and investments pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding Article 12.4 (National Treatment) and Article 12.5 (Most-Favoured-
Nation Treatment), a Party may require an investor of the other Party or its investment 
to  provide  information  concerning  that  investment  solely  for  informational  or 
statistical  purposes.  The  Party  shall  protect  such  business  information  that  is 
confidential from any disclosure that would prejudice the competitive position of the 
investor or the investment. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a 
Party  from  otherwise  obtaining  or  disclosing  information  in  connection  with  the 
equitable and good faith application of its law. 
 
 
Article 10.10 
Expropriation12 
 
1.  Neither  Party  shall  nationalise,  expropriate  or  subject  to  measures  having  effect 
equivalent  to  nationalisation  or  expropriation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“expropriation”)  an  investment  unless  such  a  measure  is  taken  on  a  non-
discriminatory basis, for a public purpose, in accordance with due process of law and 
upon payment of compensation in accordance with this Article. 
 
2.  The expropriation shall be accompanied by the payment of prompt, adequate and 
effective compensation. Compensation shall be equivalent to the fair market value of 
the  expropriated  investment  immediately  before  the  expropriation  or  impending 
expropriation  became  public  knowledge.  Such  compensation  shall  be  effectively 
realisable, freely transferable in accordance with Article 10.11 (Transfers) and made 
without  delay.  The  compensation  shall  include  interest  at  an  appropriate  and 
reasonable rate for that currency, accrued from the date of expropriation until the date 
of payment. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, any measure of expropriation 
relating to land, which shall be as defined in the existing domestic legislation of the 
expropriating Party on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, shall be for a 
purpose  and  upon  payment  of  compensation  in  accordance  with  the  aforesaid 
legislation. 
                                                           
12 Article 10.10 (Expropriation) is to be interpreted in accordance with Annex 12-A (Expropriation). 
10-9 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
4.  This Article does not apply to the issuance of compulsory licences granted in relation 
to intellectual property rights in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement, or to the 
revocation, limitation, or creation of intellectual property rights, to the extent that 
such  issuance,  revocation,  limitation,  or  creation  is  consistent  with  Chapter  13 
(Intellectual Property) and the TRIPS Agreement13. 
 
Article 10.11 
Transfers 
 
1.  Each Party shall permit all transfers relating to an investment to be made freely and 
without delay14 into and out of its territory. Such transfers include: 
   
(a)  the  initial  capital  and  additional  amounts  to  maintain  or  increase  an 
investment; 
 
(b)  profits, dividends, capital gains, and proceeds from the sale of all or any part 
of the investment or from the partial or complete liquidation of the investment; 
 
(c)  interest,  royalty  payments,  management  fees,  and  technical  assistance  and 
other fees;  
 
(d)  payments made under a contract entered into by the investor, or its investment, 
including payments made pursuant to a loan agreement;  
 
(e)  payments  made  pursuant  to  Article  10.6  (Compensation  for  Losses)  and 
Article 10.10 (Expropriation); and 
 
(f)  payments arising under Section 10-B (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). 
 
2.  Each Party shall permit such transfers to be made in a freely convertible currency at 
the market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer. 
 
3.  Each Party shall permit returns in kind relating to an investment to be made as 
authorised or specified in an investment authorisation or other written agreement 
between the Party15 and an investment or an investor of the other Party. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 of this Article, a Party may delay or prevent a 
transfer through the equitable, non-discriminatory, and good faith application of its 
laws relating to: 
                                                           
13 For greater certainty, the Parties recognise that, for the purposes of this Article, the term “revocation” of 
intellectual property rights includes the cancellation or nullification of such rights, and the term “limitation” of 
intellectual property rights includes exceptions to such rights. 
14 A transfer shall be deemed to have been made without delay if effected within a reasonable period as is 
typically required for the completion of the relevant transfer formalities. 
15 In the case of Sri Lanka, the investment authorisation or written agreement may only be granted or entered 
into, in accordance with its written laws, by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka or such other entities as may 
be designated by Sri Lanka. 
10-10 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
(a)  bankruptcy, insolvency, or the protection of the rights of creditors;  
 
(b)  issuing, trading, or dealing in securities, futures, options, or derivatives;  
 
(c)  financial reporting or record keeping of transfers when necessary to assist law 
enforcement or financial regulatory authorities;  
 
(d)  criminal or penal offences16; 
(e)  ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in judicial or administrative 
proceedings; 
 
(f)  social security17, public retirement or compulsory savings schemes; or 
 
(g)  labour and severance entitlements of employees. 
 
5.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and obligations of the members of the 
IMF under the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, including 
the use of exchange actions which are consistent with such Articles of Agreement, 
provided  that  a  Party  shall  not  impose  restrictions  on  any  capital  transactions 
inconsistently with its obligations under this Chapter regarding such transactions, 
except under Article 17.6 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance-of-Payments) of 
Chapter 17 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions) or at the request of the IMF. 
 
 
Article 10.12 
Subrogation 
 
1.  If a Party (or any agency, institution, statutory body or corporation designated by it) 
makes a payment to any of its investors under a guarantee, a contract of insurance or 
other form of indemnity it has granted in respect of an investment, against non-
commercial risks, the other Party shall recognise the subrogation or transfer of any 
right or title in respect of such investment. The Party or its designated agency is 
entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise the rights and enforce the claims of that 
investor. The subrogated or transferred right or claim shall not be greater than the 
original right or claim of the investor. 
 
2.  Where a Party (or any agency, institution, statutory body or corporation designated by 
it) has made a payment to an investor of that Party and has taken over rights and 
claims of the investor, that investor shall not, unless authorised to act on behalf of the 
Party or the designated agency of the Party making the payment, pursue those rights 
and claims against the other Party. 
 
                                                           
16 For greater certainty, the laws relating to criminal and penal offences include laws relating to the recovery of 
proceeds of crimes. 
17 For greater certainty, social security schemes include compulsory health insurance schemes.   
 
10-11 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
SECTION 10-B 
INVESTOR-STATE DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
 Article 10.13 
Scope 
 
1.  This Section shall apply to disputes between a Party and an investor of the other 
Party18 concerning  an  alleged  breach  of  Articles  10.3  (Minimum  Standard  of 
Treatment), 10.4 (National Treatment), 10.5 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), 10.6 
(Compensation for Losses), 10.9 (Special Formalities and Treatment of Information), 
10.10 (Expropriation), 10.11 (Transfers), and 10.12 (Subrogation), which causes loss 
or damage to that investor or its investment. 
 
2.  This Section shall apply to losses and damages incurred in respect of activities carried 
out prior to the establishment of an investment only where such activities result in an 
investment being established in the Party hosting the investment. 
 
3.  This  Section  shall  not  apply  to  any  dispute  concerning  any  measure  adopted  or 
maintained or any treatment accorded to investors or investments by a Party in respect 
of tobacco or tobacco-related products19 that is aimed at protecting or promoting 
human health. 
 
 
Article 10.14 
Institution of Arbitral Proceedings 
 
1.  The disputing parties shall initially seek to resolve the dispute by consultations. 
 
2.  In the event of an investment dispute, the claimant may deliver to the respondent a 
written request for consultations. Such written request shall specify the measure(s) 
complained of and how such measure(s) has given rise to the dispute. 
 
3.  Where the dispute cannot be resolved as provided for under paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Article within six (6) months from the date of receipt of such written request for 
consultations,  the  claimant  shall  exhaust  any  domestic  remedy  provided  in  the 
respondent State. In the event: 
 
(a)  the claimant has invoked domestic remedies and such remedies have not been 
concluded within a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date that notice 
invoking such domestic remedies was served on the respondent State; or 
                                                           
18 For greater certainty, a natural person possessing the nationality or citizenship of a Party shall not pursue a 
claim against that Party under this Agreement. 
19 For the purpose of this Chapter, “tobacco products” means products under HS Chapter 24 (Tobacco and 
Manufactured Tobacco Substitutes) and tobacco-related products falling outside HS Chapter 24 (Tobacco and 
Manufactured Tobacco Substitutes).  
10-12 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
(b)  the claimant has invoked and exhausted all domestic remedies, 
 
the claimant may have recourse to the dispute settlement procedures in this Section. 
 
4.  Subject to paragraph 3 of this Article, a claimant may submit to arbitration20: 
 
(a)  a claim, on its own behalf, that the respondent has breached an obligation 
under this Agreement and the claimant has incurred loss or damage by reason 
of, or arising out of, that breach; or 
 
(b)  a claim, on behalf of an enterprise of the respondent that is an enterprise that 
the claimant owns or controls21, that the respondent has breached an obligation 
under this Agreement and the enterprise has incurred loss or damage by reason 
of, or arising out of, that breach. 
 
5.  A claimant may submit the claim to arbitration: 
 
(a)  under the SIAC and the SIAC Arbitration Rules; 
 
(b)  to the ICLP or the SLNAC; 
 
(c)  under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or 
 
(d)  to any other arbitral institutions or under any other arbitration rules, if the 
disputing parties so agree. 
 
6.  Each Party hereby consents to the submission of a dispute to arbitration under sub-
paragraphs 5(a), 5(b), 5(c) and 5(d) of this Article in accordance with the provisions 
of this Section, conditional upon: 
 
(a)  the submission of the dispute to such arbitration taking place within four (4) 
years from the time at which the claimant became aware, or should reasonably 
have  become  aware,  of  a  breach  of  an  obligation  under  this  Agreement 
causing loss or damage to the claimant or its investment; 
 
(b)  the claimant not being an enterprise of the respondent until the claimant refers 
the dispute for arbitration pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Article;  
 
                                                           
20 For greater certainty, a claimant shall not be entitled to bring a claim under both sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
paragraph 4 of this Article in respect of the same alleged breach of an obligation. 
21 An enterprise is:  
 
(a)   owned by natural persons or enterprises of the other Party if more than fifty (50) percent of the equity 
interest in it is beneficially owned by natural persons or enterprises of that Party;  
 
(b)   controlled by natural persons or enterprises of the other Party if such natural persons or enterprises 
have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its actions. 
10-13 Chapter 10 – Investment 
(c)  the claimant providing written consent to arbitration in accordance with the 
provisions set out in this Section; and 
 
(d)  the claimant providing written notice, which shall be delivered at least ninety 
(90) days before the claim is submitted, to the respondent of its intent to 
submit the dispute to such arbitration and which: 
 
(i)  states whether the claim is made on its own behalf or on behalf of the 
enterprise; 
 
(ii)  states the name and address of the claimant and, where a dispute is 
submitted on behalf of an enterprise, the name, address, and place of 
constitution of the enterprise; 
 
(iii)  nominates one of the fora referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article as 
the forum for dispute settlement; 
 
(iv)  is accompanied:  
 
(A)  for claims submitted to arbitration under sub-paragraph 4(a) 
of this Article, by the claimant’s written waiver; and  
 
(B)  for claims submitted to arbitration under subparagraph 4(b) 
of this Article, by the claimant’s and the enterprise’s written 
waivers, 
 
of  any  right  to  initiate  or  continue  any  proceedings  (excluding 
proceedings for interim measures of protection referred to in paragraph 
1 of Article 10.18 (Interim Measures of Protection and Diplomatic 
Protection)) before any of the other dispute settlement fora referred to 
in paragraph 5 of this Article in relation to the matter under dispute; 
and 
 
(v)  briefly summarises the alleged breach of the respondent under this 
Agreement (including the measures giving rise to the claim and the 
provisions alleged to have been breached), the legal and factual basis 
for the dispute, the loss or damage allegedly caused to the claimant or 
its investment by reason of that breach, the type of relief sought and 
the approximate amount of damages claimed. 
 
7.  The consent under paragraph 6 of this Article and the submission of a claim to 
arbitration under this Section shall satisfy the requirements of Article II of the New 
York Convention for an “agreement in writing”. 
 
8.  A claim that is submitted for arbitration under this Section shall be considered to arise 
out of a commercial relationship or transaction for purposes of Article I of the New 
York Convention. 
10-14 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
Article 10.15 
Constitution of Arbitral Tribunal 
 
1.  Unless the disputing parties otherwise agree, the arbitral tribunal shall be composed of 
three  (3)  arbitrators.  Each  disputing  party  shall  appoint  one  arbitrator  and  the 
disputing parties shall agree upon a third arbitrator, who shall be the chairman of the 
arbitral tribunal. If an arbitral tribunal has not been established within ninety (90) days 
from the date on which the claim was submitted to arbitration, either because a 
disputing party failed to appoint an arbitrator or because the disputing parties failed to 
agree  upon  the  chairman,  the  President  of  the  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration 
(“PCA”), upon request of either disputing party, shall appoint, at his own discretion, 
the arbitrator or arbitrators not yet appointed.  
 
2.  For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article, in the event that the President of the 
PCA is a national or permanent resident of either Party, the Vice-President of the 
PCA or the officer next in seniority who is not a national or permanent resident of 
either Party shall be requested to make the necessary appointment or appointments. 
 
 
Article 10.16 
Place of Arbitration 
 
1.  Unless the disputing parties otherwise agree, the place of arbitration shall be in the 
territory of either Party. 
 
2.  In the event, the disputing parties cannot agree between the territories of the Parties as 
the place of arbitration, the tribunal shall determine the place of arbitration giving 
consideration to where the investment has been made, unless tribunal is of the opinion 
that there are reasons for the place of arbitration to be in the territory of the other 
Party or a non- Party. 
 
 
Article 10.17 
Conduct of the Arbitration 
 
1.  A  tribunal  established  under  this  Section  shall  decide  the  issues  in  dispute  in 
accordance  with  this  Agreement  and  the  applicable  rules  and  principles  of 
international law.22 
 
2.  Without prejudice to a tribunal’s authority to address other objections as a preliminary 
question, such as an objection that a dispute is not within the competence of the 
tribunal, including an objection to the tribunal’s jurisdiction, a tribunal shall address 
and decide as a preliminary question any objection by the respondent that, as a matter 
                                                           
22 The Parties confirm their mutual understanding that when domestic law of the Respondent is relevant to a 
claim, an arbitral tribunal established under this Section shall take into account the domestic law as a matter of 
fact. 
10-15 Chapter 10 – Investment 
of law, a claim submitted is not a claim for which an award in favour of the claimant 
may be made under Article 10.19 (Award). 
 
(a)  Such objection shall be submitted to the tribunal as soon as possible after the 
tribunal is constituted, and in no event later than the date the tribunal fixes for 
the  respondent  to  submit  its  counter-memorial  (or,  in  the  case  of  an 
amendment to the notice of arbitration, the date the tribunal fixes for the 
respondent to submit its response to the amendment).   
 
(b)  On receipt of an objection under this paragraph, the tribunal shall suspend any 
proceedings on the merits, establish a schedule for considering the objection 
consistent  with  any  schedule  it  has  established  for  considering  any  other 
preliminary question, and issue a decision or award on the objection, stating 
the grounds therefor.  
 
(c)  In deciding an objection under this paragraph, the tribunal shall assume to be 
true claimant’s factual allegations in support of any claim in the notice of 
arbitration (or any amendment thereof) and, in disputes brought under the 
UNCITRAL  Arbitration  Rules,  the  statement  of  claim  referred  to  in  the 
relevant article of the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules. The tribunal may also 
consider any relevant facts not in dispute.  
 
(d)  The  respondent  does  not  waive  any  objection  as  to  competence  or  any 
argument on the merits merely because the respondent did or did not raise an 
objection under this paragraph or make use of the expedited procedure set out 
in paragraph 3 of this Article.   
 
3.    In the event that the respondent so requests within forty-five (45) days after the 
tribunal is constituted, the tribunal shall decide on an expedited basis an objection 
under paragraph 2 of this Article or any objection that the dispute is not within the 
tribunal’s  competence,  including  an  objection  that  the  dispute  is  not  within  the 
tribunal’s jurisdiction. The tribunal shall suspend any proceedings on the merits and 
issue a decision or award on the objection(s), stating the grounds therefor, no later 
than one hundred and fifty (150) days after the date of the request. However, if a 
disputing party requests a hearing, the tribunal may take an additional thirty (30) days 
to issue the decision or award. Regardless of whether a hearing is requested, a tribunal 
may, on a showing of extraordinary cause, delay issuing its decision or award by an 
additional brief period, which may not exceed thirty (30) days. 
 
4.    When it decides a respondent’s objection under paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Article, the 
tribunal may, if warranted, award to the prevailing disputing party reasonable costs 
and attorney’s fees incurred in submitting or opposing the objection. In determining 
whether such an award is warranted, the tribunal shall consider whether either the 
claimant’s claim or the respondent’s objection was frivolous, and shall provide the 
disputing parties a reasonable opportunity to comment.  
 
 
10-16 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
 
 
Article 10.18 
Interim Measures of Protection and Diplomatic Protection 
 
1.  Sub-paragraph 6(d)(iii) of Article 10.14 (Institution of Arbitral Proceedings) shall not 
prevent the claimant from seeking interim measures of protection,  not  involving  the  
payment of damages or resolution of the substance of the matter in dispute before the 
courts  or  administrative  tribunals  of  the  respondent,  prior  to  the  institution  of 
proceedings before any of the dispute settlement fora referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Article 10.14 (Institution of Arbitral Proceedings), for the preservation of its rights 
and interests.  
 
2.  Neither Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an international claim, in 
respect  of  a  dispute  which  one  of  its  investors  and  the  other  Party  shall  have 
consented to submit or have submitted to arbitration under this Section, unless such 
other Party has failed to abide by and comply with the award rendered in such dispute. 
Diplomatic protection, for the purposes of this paragraph, shall not include informal 
diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a settlement of the dispute.  
 
 
Article 10.19 
Award 
 
1.  Where a tribunal makes a final award against a respondent, the tribunal may award, 
separately or in combination, only: 
 
(a)  monetary damages and any applicable interest; and 
 
(b)  restitution  of  property,  in  which  case  the  award  shall  provide  that  the 
respondent may pay monetary damages and any applicable interest in lieu of 
restitution. 
 
A tribunal may also award costs and attorney’s fees in accordance with this Section 
and the applicable arbitration rules. 
 
2.  Any arbitral award shall be final and binding upon the disputing parties. Each Party 
shall ensure the recognition and enforcement of the award in accordance with its 
relevant laws and regulations.  
 
3.  Where a claim is submitted on behalf of an enterprise of the respondent, the arbitral 
award shall be made to the enterprise. 
 
 
Article 10.20 
Consolidation 
10-17 Chapter 10 – Investment 
 
1.  Where two (2) or more claims have been submitted separately to arbitration under this 
Section, and the claims have a question of law or fact in common and arise out of the 
same events or circumstances, any disputing party may seek a consolidation order, in 
accordance with the agreement of all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the 
order or the terms of this Article. 
 
2.  A disputing party that seeks a consolidation order under this Article shall deliver, in 
writing, a request to the President of the PCA and to all the disputing parties sought to 
be covered by the order, specifying the name and address of all the disputing parties 
sought to be covered by the order; the nature of the order sought; and the grounds on 
which the order is sought. 
 
3.  Unless the President of the PCA finds within thirty (30) days after receiving a request 
in  conformity  with  paragraph  2  of  this  Article  that  the  request  is  manifestly 
unfounded, a tribunal shall be established under this Article. 
 
4.  Unless  all the disputing parties sought  to  be covered by the  consolidation  order 
otherwise agree, the tribunal established under this Article shall comprise three (3) 
arbitrators: 
 
(a)  one (1) arbitrator appointed by agreement of the disputing investors;  
 
(b)  one (1)  arbitrator appointed by the respondent; and  
 
(c)  the chairman of the arbitral tribunal appointed by the President of the PCA 
provided that the chairman shall not be a national of either Party. 
 
5.  If, within the sixty (60) days after the President of the PCA receives a request made 
under paragraph 2 of this Article, the respondent fails or the disputing investors fail to 
appoint an arbitrator in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article, the President of 
the PCA, on request of any disputing party sought to be covered by the order, shall 
appoint the arbitrator or arbitrators not yet appointed. 
 
6.  Where a tribunal established under this Article is satisfied that two or more claims 
that have been submitted to arbitration in accordance to Article 10.14 (Institution of 
Arbitral Proceedings), have a question of law or fact in common, and arise out of the 
same events or circumstances, the tribunal may, in the interest of fair and efficient 
resolution of the claims, and after hearing the disputing parties, by order: 
 
(a)  assume jurisdiction over, and hear and determine together, all or part of the 
claims;  
 
(b)  assume jurisdiction over, and hear and determine one or more claims, whose 
determination it considers would assist in the resolution of the other claims; or  
 
10-18 Chapter 10 – Investment 
(c)  instruct a tribunal previously established under Article 10.15 (Constitution of 
Arbitral  Tribunal)  to  assume  jurisdiction  over  and  to  hear  and  determine 
together, all or part of the claims, provided that: 
 
(i)  that tribunal, at the request of any disputing investor not previously a 
disputing  party  before  that  tribunal,  shall  be  reconstituted  with  its 
original members, except that the arbitrator for the disputing investors 
shall be appointed pursuant to sub-paragraph 4(a) and paragraph 5 of 
this Article; and 
 
(ii)  that  tribunal  shall  decide  whether  any  previous  hearing  must  be 
repeated. 
 
7.  Where a tribunal has been established under this Article, a disputing investor that has 
submitted a claim to arbitration pursuant to Article 10.14 (Institution of Arbitral 
Proceedings) and that has not been named in a request made under paragraph 2 of this 
Article, may make a written request to the tribunal that it be included in any order 
issued under paragraph 6 of this Article, specifying: 
 
(a)  the name and address of the disputing investor; 
 
(b)  the nature of the order sought; and 
 
(c)  the grounds on which the order is sought. 
 
The claimant shall provide the President of the PCA with a copy of his request. 
 
8.  A  tribunal  established  pursuant  to  this  Article  shall  conduct  the  proceedings  in 
accordance  with  the  UNCITRAL  Arbitration  Rules,  except  as  modified  by  this 
Section. 
 
9.  A tribunal established under Article 10.15 (Constitution of Arbitral Tribunal) shall not 
have  jurisdiction  to  decide  a  claim  or  a  part  of  a  claim  over  which  a  tribunal 
established or instructed under this Article has assumed jurisdiction. 
 
10.  On application of a disputing party, a tribunal established pursuant to this Article 
may, pending its decision under paragraph 6 of this Article, order that the proceedings 
of a tribunal established under Article 10.15 (Constitution of Arbitral Tribunal) be 
stayed, unless the latter tribunal has already adjourned its proceedings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 10-C 
10-19 Chapter 10 – Investment 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 10.21 
Denial of Benefits 
 
1.  A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor of the other Party and to 
its investments if the investor is an enterprise owned or controlled by persons of a 
non-Party  or  the  denying  Party,  and  such  enterprise  has  no  substantive  business 
operations in the territory of the other Party. 
 
2.  The  denying  Party  shall,  to  the  extent  practicable,  notify  the  other  Party  before 
denying the benefits. If the denying Party provides such notice, it shall consult with 
the other Party at the request of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 10.22 
Publication of International Agreements 
 
1.   To  the  extent  possible,  each  Party  shall  ensure  that  international  agreements 
pertaining to or affecting investors or investment activities to which a Party is a 
signatory shall be promptly published or otherwise made available in such a manner 
as to enable interested persons or parties to become acquainted with them. 
 
2.   To the extent possible, each Party shall make the international agreements of the kind 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article available on the Internet. Each Party shall, 
upon request by the other Party, respond to specific questions from and provide 
information to the other Party with respect to the international agreements referred to 
in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
 
 
Article 10.23 
General Exceptions23 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which would 
constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination against the other Party or its 
investors where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on investments of investors 
of the other Party in the territory of a Party, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to 
prevent the adoption or enforcement by a Party of measures: 
 
(a)  necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order24; 
 
                                                           
23 For greater certainty, the application of the general exception to these provisions shall not be interpreted so as 
to diminish the ability of governments to take measures where investors are not in like circumstances due to the 
existence of legitimate regulatory objectives. 
24 The public order exception may be invoked only where a genuine and sufficiently serious threat is posed to 
one of the fundamental interests of society. For greater certainty, the Parties understand that the fundamental 
interests of society include the maintenance of religious harmony. 
10-20 Chapter 10 – Investment 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health25; 
 
(c)  necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not inconsistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement including those relating to: 
 
(i)  the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to deal with the effects 
of a default on a contract; 
 
(ii)  the protection of the privacy of individuals in relation to the processing and 
dissemination  of  personal  data  and  the  protection  of  confidentiality  of 
individual records and accounts; 
 
(iii)  safety; or 
 
(d)  relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources26. 
 
(e)  necessary to protect national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value; 
 
 
Article 10.24 
Savings Clause 
 
1.  For ten (10) years from the date of termination of this Agreement, the following 
provisions  shall  continue  to  apply  to  investments  in  existence  at  the  date  of 
termination, and without prejudice to the application thereafter of the rules of general 
international law: 
 
(a)  the provisions of this Chapter; and 
 
(b)  such  other  provisions  in  the  Agreement  as  may  be  necessary  for  or 
consequential to the application or interpretation of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 10.25 
Term of Investment Promotion and Protection Agreement 
 
1.  Subject to paragraph 2 of this Article, the Parties hereby agree that the Agreement 
between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of the 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Concerning the Reciprocal Promotion and Protection 
of Investments Signed in Singapore on 09th May 1980 (“IPPA”), as well as all the 
rights and obligations derived from the said agreement, shall cease to have effect on 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
                                                           
25 The Parties understand that the measures referred in sub-paragraph 1(b) of this Article include environmental 
measures necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health. 
26 The Parties understand that the measures referred in sub-paragraph 1(d) of this Article include environmental 
measures relating to the conservation of living and non-living exhaustible natural resources. 
10-21 Chapter 10 – Investment 
2.  Any and all investments made pursuant to the IPPA before the entry into force of this 
Agreement will be governed by the rules of the said IPPA regarding any matter 
arising while the IPPA was in force. An investor may only submit an arbitration claim 
pursuant to the IPPA regarding any matter arising while the IPPA was in force, 
pursuant to the rules and procedures established in it, and provided that no more than 
three (3) years have elapsed since the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
Article 10.26 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
 
The Parties reaffirm the importance of each Party encouraging enterprises operating within its 
territory or subject to its jurisdiction to voluntarily incorporate into their internal policies 
those  internationally  recognised  standards,  guidelines  and  principles  of  corporate  social 
responsibility that have been endorsed or are supported by that Party. 
   
10-22 Chapter 10 – Investment 
ANNEX 10-A 
 
EXPROPRIATION 
 
The Parties confirm their shared understanding that: 
 
1.  An action or a series of actions by a Party cannot constitute an expropriation unless it 
interferes  with  a  tangible  or  intangible  property  right  or  property  interest  in  an 
investment.  
 
2.  Paragraph 1 of Article 10.10 (Expropriation) addresses two situations. The first is 
direct  expropriation,  where  an  investment  is  nationalised  or  otherwise  directly 
expropriated through formal transfer of title or outright seizure. 
 
2.  The second situation addressed by paragraph 1 of Article 10.10 (Expropriation) is 
indirect expropriation, where an action or series of actions by a Party has an effect 
equivalent to direct expropriation without formal transfer of title or outright seizure. 
 
(a)  The determination of whether an action or series of actions by a Party, in a 
specific fact situation, constitutes an indirect expropriation, requires a case-by-
case, fact-based inquiry that considers, among other factors: 
 
(i)  the economic impact of the government action, although the fact that 
an action or series of actions by a Party has an adverse effect on the 
economic value of an investment, standing alone, does not establish 
that an indirect expropriation has occurred; 
 
(ii)  the extent to  which the government  action interferes with  distinct, 
reasonable investment-backed expectations; and 
 
(iii)  the character of the government action. 
 
(b)  Except in rare circumstances, non-discriminatory regulatory actions by a Party 
that are designed and applied to protect legitimate public welfare objectives, 
such as public health, safety and the environment, do not constitute indirect 
expropriations. 
   
10-23 Chapter 10 – Investment 
ANNEX 10-B 
 
SCHEDULE OF SRI LANKA 
 
Articles  10.4  (National  Treatment),  10.5  (Most-Favoured  Nation  Treatment),  10.7 
(Performance Requirements) and 10.8 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors) shall 
not apply to any measure relating to the following sectors: 
 
(a)  agriculture; 
 
(b)  fisheries; 
 
(c)  forestry; 
 
(d)  mining and quarrying; 
 
(e)  real estate; 
 
(f)  arms and explosives; and 
 
(g)  traditional handicrafts. 
   
10-24 Chapter 10 – Investment 
ANNEX 10-C 
 
SCHEDULE OF SINGAPORE 
 
Articles  10.4  (National  Treatment),  10.5  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment),  10.7 
(Performance Requirements) and 10.8 (Senior Management and Board of Directors) do not 
apply to any measure relating to: 
 
(a)  the collection, purification, treatment, disposal and distribution of water, including 
waste water, in Singapore; 
 
(b)  real  estate,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  ownership,  purchase,  development, 
maintenance, use, enjoyment, sale or other disposal of real estate in Singapore; 
 
(c)  the arms and explosives sector; 
 
(d)  the retention of a controlling interest by the Singapore Government in Singapore 
Technologies Engineering (the Company) and/or its successor body, including but not 
limited to controls over the appointment and termination of members of the Board of 
Directors, divestment of equity and dissolution of the Company for the purpose of 
safeguarding the security interest of Singapore; and 
 
(e)  broadcasting. 
10-25 