Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
CHAPTER 16 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
Article 16.1 
Objective 
 
The  objective  of  this  Chapter  is  to  avoid  and  settle  any  dispute  between  the  Parties 
concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement with a view to arrive at, where 
possible, a mutually acceptable solution. 
 
 
Article 16.2 
Scope 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter shall apply with respect to the 
avoidance or settlement of all disputes between the Parties regarding the interpretation or 
application of the provisions of this Agreement or wherever a Party considers that: 
 
(a)   a measure of the other Party is inconsistent with the obligations under the 
provisions of this Agreement; or 
 
(b)   the other Party has otherwise failed to carry out its obligations under the 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 16.3 
Choice of Forum 
 
1.  Where a dispute regarding any matter referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope) arises under 
this Agreement and under the WTO Agreement, or any other agreement to which both 
Parties are party, the complaining Party may select the forum in which to settle the 
dispute. 
  
2.  The complaining Party shall notify the other Party in writing of its intention to bring a 
dispute to a particular forum before doing so. 
 
3.   Once the complaining Party has selected a particular forum, the forum selected shall 
be used to the exclusion of other possible fora. 
 
4.   For the purposes of this Article, the complaining Party shall be deemed to have 
selected a forum when it has requested the establishment of, or referred a matter to, a 
dispute settlement panel. 
  
 
 
 
16-1 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
Article 16.4 
Consultations 
 
1.  The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation and application 
of the provisions of this Agreement and to resolve any dispute thereof by entering into 
consultations in good faith with the aim of reaching a solution agreed to by the 
Parties. 
 
2.  A Party shall seek consultations, by means of a written request to the other Party, and 
shall give the reasons for the request, identification of the measures at issue, the 
applicable provisions of the Agreement referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope), and the 
reasons for the applicability of such provisions. 
 
3.  Consultations shall be held within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the request 
and  take  place,  unless  the  Parties  agree  otherwise,  in  the  territory  of  the  Party 
complained against. The consultations shall be deemed concluded within sixty (60) 
days  of  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  request,  unless  the  Parties  agree  otherwise. 
Consultations shall be confidential, and without prejudice to the rights of either Party 
in any further proceedings. 
 
4.  Consultations on matters of urgency, including those regarding perishable goods, shall 
be held within fifteen (15) days of the date of receipt of the request, and shall be 
deemed concluded within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the request, unless 
the Parties agree otherwise. 
 
5.  If  the  Party  to  which  the  request  is  made  does  not  respond  to  the  request  for 
consultations within ten (10) days of the date of its receipt, or if consultations are not 
held within the timeframes laid down in paragraph 3 of this Article or in paragraph 4 
of this Article respectively, or if consultations have been concluded and no solution 
has  been  agreed  upon  by  the  Parties,  the  complaining  Party  may  request  the 
establishment of an arbitration panel in accordance with Article 16.5 (Initiation of 
Arbitration Procedure). 
 
 
Article 16.5 
Initiation of Arbitration Procedure 
 
The request for the establishment of an arbitration panel shall be made in writing to the Party 
complained against. The complaining Party shall identify in its request the specific measure at 
issue, and explain how such measure constitutes a breach of the applicable provisions of the 
Agreement referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope) in a manner sufficient to present the legal basis 
for the complaint clearly.  
 
 
 
 
 
16-2 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
 
Article 16.6 
Terms of Reference 
 
Unless the Parties otherwise agree within twenty (20) days from the date of receipt of the 
request for the establishment of the arbitration panel, the terms of reference of the arbitration 
panel shall be: 
 
“To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of this Agreement, the matter 
referred to in the request for the establishment of an arbitration panel pursuant to 
Article 16.5 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure) and to make findings, determinations 
and any recommendations for resolution of the dispute, and issue a written report, as 
provided in Article 16.9 (Arbitration Panel Report)”.   
   
 
Article 16.7 
Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel 
 
1.  An arbitration panel shall be composed of three (3) members. Each Party shall appoint 
a member within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request referred to in Article 
16.5 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure) and the two members shall, within thirty 
(30) days of the appointment of the second of them, designate by agreement the third 
member. Such designation shall be notified to the Parties and accompanied by a brief 
profile of the third member and any disclosures as required under paragraph 3 of 
Annex 16-A (Code of Conduct for Arbitrators). 
 
 2.  The Parties shall, within ten (10) days of receiving the notification of the designation 
of the third member, approve or disapprove the appointment of that member, who 
shall, if approved, act as the chairperson of the arbitration panel. If a Party fails to 
respond  within  the  said  period,  that  Party  shall  be  deemed  to  disapprove  the 
appointment of that member. 
 
3.  If the third member has not been designated within thirty (30) days of the appointment 
of the second member, or one of the Parties disapproves the appointment of the third 
member, the Director-General of the WTO shall, at the request of either Party, appoint 
within a further period of thirty (30) days, the third member who shall act as the 
chairperson of the arbitration panel. 
 
4.  If one of the Parties does not appoint a member within thirty (30) days of the receipt 
of the request referred to in Article 16.5 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure), the other 
Party may inform the Director-General of the WTO who shall appoint within a further 
period of thirty (30) days, the third member who shall act as the chairperson of the 
arbitration  panel,  and  the  chairperson  shall,  upon  appointment,  request  the  Party 
which has not appointed a member to do so within fourteen (14) days. If after such 
period, that Party has still not appointed a member, the chairperson shall inform the 
Director-General of the WTO who shall make this appointment within a further period 
of thirty (30) days. 
16-3 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, in the event that the Director-
General of the WTO is a national of either Party, the Deputy Director-General of the 
WTO or the officer next in seniority who is not a national of either Party shall be 
requested to make the necessary appointments. 
 
6.  Any person appointed as a member of the arbitration panel shall have expertise or 
experience in law, international trade, other matters covered by this Agreement or the 
resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements. A member shall be 
chosen  strictly  on  the  bases  of  objectivity,  reliability,  sound  judgment  and 
independence, and shall conduct himself or herself on the same bases throughout the 
course of the arbitration proceedings and in accordance with Annex 16-A (Code of 
Conduct for Arbitrators) and shall serve in their individual capacities and not be 
affiliated with, nor take instructions from either Party. If a Party considers that a 
member of the arbitration panel is in violation of these requirements, the Parties shall 
consult and if they agree, the member shall be removed and a new member shall be 
appointed in accordance with this Article. Additionally, the chairperson shall not be a 
national of either Party or have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of, 
nor be employed by, either Party nor have dealt with the dispute in any capacity. 
 
7.  If a member of the arbitration panel appointed under this Article becomes unable to 
participate in the proceeding or resigns or is to be removed according to paragraph 6 
of this Article, a successor shall be selected in the same manner as prescribed for the 
appointment of the original member. The successor shall have all the powers and 
duties of the original member. In such a case, the work of the arbitration panel and 
any time period applicable to the arbitration panel proceedings shall be suspended for 
a period beginning on the date the original member becomes unable to participate in 
the proceeding or resigns, or on the date the Parties agree to remove the member 
according to paragraph 6 of this Article. The work of the arbitration panel and any 
time period applicable to the arbitration panel proceedings shall resume on the date 
the new member is appointed. 
 
8.  The date of establishment of the arbitration panel shall be the date on which the last of 
the three members is appointed. 
 
 
 Article 16.8 
Proceedings of the Arbitration Panel 
 
1.  The arbitration panel shall meet in closed session, unless the Parties decide otherwise. 
 
2.  The Parties shall be given the opportunity to provide at least one written submission 
and to attend any of the presentations, statements or rebuttals in the proceedings. All 
information or written submissions submitted by a Party to the arbitration panel, 
including any comments on the interim report and responses to questions put by the 
arbitration panel, shall be made available to the other Party. 
 
16-4 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
3.  A Party asserting that a measure of the other Party is inconsistent with this Agreement 
shall have the burden of establishing such inconsistency. A Party asserting that a 
measure is subject to an exception under this Agreement shall have the burden of 
establishing that the exception applies. 
 
4.  The  arbitration  panel  should  consult  with  the  Parties  as  appropriate  and  provide 
adequate opportunities for the achievement of a mutually satisfactory resolution. 
 
5.  The arbitration panel shall make every effort to take any decision by consensus. 
Where a decision cannot be arrived at by consensus, the matter at issue shall be 
decided by majority vote. 
 
6.   At the request of a Party, or upon its own initiative, the arbitration panel may obtain 
information  from  any  source  it  deems  appropriate  for  the  arbitration  panel 
proceedings. The arbitration panel also has the right to seek the relevant opinion of 
experts as it deems appropriate. The arbitration panel shall consult the Parties before 
choosing such experts. Any information obtained in this manner must be disclosed to 
the Parties and submitted for their comments. 
 
7.  The deliberations of the arbitration panel and the documents submitted to it shall be 
kept confidential. 
 
8.  Notwithstanding paragraph 7 of this Article, either Party may make public statements 
as to its views regarding the dispute but shall treat as confidential information and 
written submissions submitted by the other Party to the arbitration panel which the 
other Party has designated as confidential. Where a Party has provided information or 
written submissions designated to be confidential, that Party shall, within thirty (30) 
days of a request of the other Party, provide a non-confidential summary of the 
information or written submissions which may be disclosed publicly. 
 
 
Article 16.9 
Interim Arbitration Panel Report and Final Arbitration Panel Report 
 
1.   The arbitration panel shall issue an interim report to the Parties setting out: 
 
(a)   a summary of the submissions and arguments of the Parties; 
 
(b)   the findings of fact, together with reasons; 
 
(c)   its determination as to the interpretation or application of the provisions of this 
Agreement or whether a measure at issue is inconsistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement or whether a Party has failed to carry out its obligations under 
the provisions of this Agreement, or any other determination requested by the 
Parties in the terms of reference; and 
 
16-5 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
(d)   if there is a determination of inconsistency, its recommendation that the Party 
complained against bring the measure into conformity with the obligations 
under this Agreement and, if the Parties agree, on the means to resolve the 
dispute, 
 
not later than ninety (90) days from the date of establishment of the arbitration panel. 
Where it considers that this deadline cannot be met, the chairperson of the arbitration 
panel must notify the Parties in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the date 
on  which  the  arbitration  panel  plans  to  issue  its  interim  report.  Under  no 
circumstances  should  the  arbitration  panel  issue  its  interim  report  later  than  one 
hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of its establishment.   
 
2.   Any Party may submit a written request for the arbitration panel to review precise 
aspects of the interim report within thirty (30) days of its notification.  
 
3.   After considering any written comments by the Parties on the interim report, the 
arbitration panel may modify its report and make any further examination it considers 
appropriate. The final report of the arbitration panel shall set out the matters listed in 
paragraph 1 of this Article, include a sufficient discussion of the arguments made at 
the interim review stage, and answer clearly to the written comments of the two 
Parties. 
     
4.  The arbitration panel shall issue its final report to the Parties within one hundred and 
fifty (150) days from the date of the establishment of the arbitration panel. Where it 
considers that this deadline cannot be met, the chairperson of the arbitration panel 
shall notify the Parties in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the date on 
which the arbitration panel plans to issue its final report. Under no circumstances 
should the arbitration panel issue its final report later than two hundred and seventy 
(270) days after the date of its establishment.  
 
5.  In cases of urgency, including those involving perishable goods: 
 
(a)  the arbitration panel shall make every effort to issue its interim and final 
reports  to  the  Parties  within  half  of  the  respective  time  periods  under 
paragraphs  1  and  4  of  this  Article.  Under  no  circumstances  should  the 
arbitration panel issue its final report later than ninety (90) days after the date 
of its establishment; 
 
(b)  any Party may submit a written request for the arbitration panel to review 
precise aspects of the interim report within half of the time period under 
paragraph 2 of this Article. 
 
6.   Any  findings,  determinations  and  recommendations  in  the  final  report  of  the 
arbitration panel shall be final and binding on the Parties and shall not create any 
rights or obligations to any person. For greater certainty, nothing in the final report 
may add to or diminish the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement. 
 
16-6 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
 
 
Article 16.10 
Implementation of the Arbitration Panel Report 
 
1.   The Party complained against shall take any measure necessary to comply in good 
faith with the determinations and recommendations in the final report, and the Parties 
shall endeavour to agree on the time period for the Party complained against to 
comply with such determinations and recommendations.  
 
2.   No later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the final report, the Party complained 
against shall notify the complaining Party of the time it will require for compliance 
(hereinafter referred to as “reasonable period of time”), if immediate compliance is 
not practicable. 
 
3.   If there is disagreement between the Parties on the reasonable period of time to 
comply  with  the  determinations  and  recommendations  in  the  final  report,  the 
complaining Party shall, within fifty (50) days of the date of issuance of the final 
report, request in writing to the original arbitration panel to determine the length of 
the reasonable period of time. Such request shall be notified simultaneously to the 
other Party. The original arbitration panel shall issue its determination on the length of 
the reasonable period of time to the Parties within twenty (20) days from the date of 
the submission of the request. 
 
4.     In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the  procedures  set  out  in  Article  16.7  (Composition  and  Establishment  of  the 
Arbitration Panel) shall apply. The time limit for issuing the determination on the 
length of the reasonable period of time shall be thirty-five (35) days1 from the date of 
the submission of the request referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 
 
5.   The Party complained against shall inform the complaining Party in writing of its 
progress to comply with the determinations and recommendations in the final report at 
least one (1) month before the expiry of the reasonable period of time. 
 
6.   The reasonable period of time may be extended by the agreement of the Parties. 
 
7.   The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party before the end of the 
reasonable  period  of  time  of  any  measure  that  it  has  taken  to  comply  with  the 
determinations and recommendations in the final report. 
 
8.  In the event that there is disagreement between the Parties concerning the existence or 
the consistency of any measure notified under paragraph 7 of this Article with the 
provisions referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope), the complaining Party may request in 
writing the original arbitration panel to determine on the matter. Such request shall 
identify the specific measure at issue and the provisions referred to in Article 16.2 
                                                 
1 For greater certainty, the period of thirty-five (35) days does not include the days suspended pursuant to 
paragraph 7 of Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
16-7 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
(Scope) with which it considers that measure to be inconsistent, in a manner sufficient 
to present the legal basis for the complaint clearly, and it shall explain how such 
measure is inconsistent with the provisions referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope). The 
original arbitration panel shall notify its determination within forty-five (45) days of 
the date of the submission of the request. 
  
9.  In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the  procedures  set  out  in  Article  16.7  (Composition  and  Establishment  of  the 
Arbitration Panel) and Annex 16-B (Rules of Procedure for Arbitration) shall apply. 
The time limit for issuing the determination shall be sixty (60) days2 from the date of 
the submission of the request referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article. 
 
 
Article 16.11 
Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or Other Obligations  
 
1.   If the Party complained against fails to notify any measure taken to comply with the 
determinations  and  recommendations  in  the  final  report  before  the  expiry  of  the 
reasonable period of time, or if the arbitration panel determines that no measure taken 
to comply exists or that the measure notified under paragraph 7 of Article 16.10 
(Implementation  of  Arbitration  Panel  Report)  is  inconsistent  with  that  Party’s 
obligations  under  the  provisions  referred  to  in  Article  16.2  (Scope),  the  Party 
complained against shall, enter into negotiations with the complaining Party with a 
view to developing mutually acceptable agreement on compensation. 
 
2.   If no agreement on compensation is reached within thirty (30) days after the end of 
the reasonable period of time or, where applicable, the issuance of the arbitration 
panel  determination  under  paragraph  8  of  Article  16.10  (Implementation  of  the 
Arbitration Panel Report) that no measure taken to comply exists or that a measure 
taken to comply is inconsistent with the provisions referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope), 
the  complaining  Party  shall  be  entitled,  upon  notification  to  the  other  Party,  to 
suspend concessions or obligations arising from any provision referred to in Article 
16.2 (Scope) at a level equivalent to the nullification or impairment caused by the 
violation. The notification shall specify the level of concessions or other obligations 
that the complaining Party intends to suspend and indicate the reasons on which the 
suspension is based. The complaining Party may implement the suspension at any 
moment after the expiry of twenty-five (25) days after the date of receipt of the 
notification by the Party complained against, unless the Party complained against has 
requested arbitration under paragraph 5 of this Article. 
 
3.  The  compensation  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Article  and  the  suspension 
referred  to  in  paragraph  2  of  this  Article  shall  be  temporary  measures.  Neither 
compensation nor suspension is preferred to full elimination of the non-conformity as 
determined in the final report of the arbitration panel. 
 
                                                 
2 For greater certainty, the period of sixty (60) days does not include the days suspended pursuant to paragraph 7 
of Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
16-8 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
4.   In  considering  what  concessions  or  other  obligations  to  suspend  pursuant  to 
paragraph 2 of this Article: 
 
(a)   the  complaining  Party  should  first  seek  to  suspend  concessions  or  other 
obligations with respect to the same sector(s) as that in which the final report 
of the arbitration panel referred to in Article 16.9 (Interim Arbitration Panel 
Report and Final Arbitration Panel Report) has found an inconsistency with 
the obligations under this Agreement; 
 
(b)   if the complaining Party considers that it is not practicable or effective to 
suspend concessions or other obligations with respect to the same sector(s), it 
may suspend concessions or other obligations with respect to other sector(s); 
and 
 
(c)  the complaining Party will take into consideration those concessions or other 
obligations the suspension of which would least disturb the functioning of the 
this Agreement. 
 
5.  If the Party complained against considers that the level of suspension is not equivalent 
to the nullification or impairment caused by the violation, it may request in writing the 
original arbitration panel to determine the matter. Such request shall be notified to the 
complaining Party before the expiry of the twenty-five (25) day period referred to in 
paragraph  2  of  this  Article.  The  original  arbitration  panel,  having  sought,  if 
appropriate, the opinion of experts, shall notify its determination on the level of the 
suspension of concessions or other obligations to the Parties within thirty (30) days of 
the date of the submission of the request. Concessions or other obligations shall not be 
suspended until the original arbitration panel has notified its determination, and any 
suspension shall be consistent with the arbitration panel determination. 
 
6.   In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures laid down in Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the 
Arbitration Panel) shall apply. The period for issuing the determination shall be forty-
five (45) days3 from the date of the submission of the request referred to in paragraph 
5 of this Article. 
 
7.  The suspension of concessions or other obligations shall be temporary and shall not be 
applied after: 
 
(a)   the Parties have reached a mutually agreed solution pursuant to Article 16.14 
(Mutually Agreed Solution); or 
 
(b)   the Parties have reached an agreement on whether the measure notified under 
paragraph 1 of Article 16.12 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply After 
the  Suspension  of  Concessions  or  Other  Obligations)  brings  the  Party 
                                                 
3 For greater certainty, the period of forty-five (45) days does not include the days suspended pursuant to 
paragraph 7 of Article 16.7 (Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel).  
16-9 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
complained against into conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 
16.2 (Scope); or 
 
(c)  any measure found to be inconsistent with the provisions referred to in Article 
16.2 (Scope) has been withdrawn or amended so as to bring it into conformity 
with  those  provisions,  as  determined  under  paragraph  2  of  Article  16.12 
(Review of Any Measure to Comply After the Suspension of Concessions or 
Other Obligations). 
 
 
Article 16.12 
Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply After the Suspension of Concessions or Other 
Obligations  
 
1.  The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party of any measure it has 
taken to comply with the final report of the arbitration panel and of its request for the 
termination of the suspension of  concessions or other  obligations applied by the 
complaining Party.  
 
2.  If the Parties do not reach an agreement on whether the notified measure brings the 
Party complained against into conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 
16.2 (Scope) within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the notification, the 
complaining Party shall request in writing the original arbitration panel to determine 
the matter. Such request shall be notified simultaneously to the other Party. The 
arbitration panel determination shall be notified to the Parties within forty-five (45) 
days of the date of the submission of the request. If the complaining Party does not 
request  the  arbitration  panel  to  determine  the  matter,  or  the  arbitration  panel 
determines that any measure taken to comply is in conformity with the provisions 
referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope), the suspension of concessions or other obligations 
shall be terminated. 
 
3.  In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the  procedures  set  out  in  Article  16.7  (Composition  and  Establishment  of  the 
Arbitration Panel) shall apply. The time limit for issuing the determination shall be 
sixty (60)4 days from the date of the submission of the request referred to in paragraph 
2 of this Article. 
 
 
Article 16.13 
Suspension and Termination of Arbitration Procedures 
 
1.  The arbitration panel shall, at the written request of both Parties, suspend its work at 
any time for a period agreed by the Parties not exceeding twelve (12) months and 
shall resume its work at the end of this agreed period at the written request of the 
complaining Party, or before the end of this agreed period at the written request of 
                                                 
4 For greater certainty, the period of 60 days does not include the days suspended pursuant to paragraph 7 of 
Article 17.7(Composition and Establishment of the Arbitration Panel).  
16-10 Chapter 16 – Dispute Settlement 
both  Parties.  If  the  complaining  Party  does  not  request  the  resumption  of  the 
arbitration panel’s work before the expiry of the agreed suspension period, the dispute 
settlement procedures initiated pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed terminated. 
Subject to Article 16.3 (Choice of Forum), the suspension and termination of the 
arbitration panel’s work are without prejudice to the rights of either Party in another 
proceeding. 
 
2.  The Parties may, at any time, agree in writing to terminate the dispute settlement 
procedures initiated pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 16.14 
Mutually Agreed Solution 
 
The Parties may reach a mutually agreed solution to a dispute under this Chapter at any time. 
They shall notify the arbitration panel, if any, of such a solution. If the solution requires 
approval pursuant to the relevant domestic procedures of either Party, the notification shall 
refer to this requirement, and the dispute settlement procedures initiated pursuant to this 
Chapter shall be suspended. If such approval is not required, or upon notification of the 
completion of any such domestic procedures, the procedure shall be terminated. 
 
 
Article 16.15 
Rules of Procedure  
 
1.  Dispute settlement procedures under this Chapter shall be governed by Annex 16-B 
(Rules of Procedure for Arbitration). 
 
2.  Any time period or other rules and procedures for arbitration panels provided for in 
this Chapter may be modified by mutual agreement of the Parties.  
 
 
Article 16.16 
Rules of Interpretation 
 
The arbitration panel shall interpret the provisions referred to in Article 16.2 (Scope) in 
accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law, including those 
codified in the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties.  
 
 
Article 16.17 
Expenses 
 
Each Party shall bear the cost of its appointed arbitrator and its own expenses and legal costs. 
The cost of the chairperson of an arbitration panel and other expenses associated with the 
conduct of the proceedings shall be borne by the Parties in equal shares.  
 
16-11 