Protocol 1 
 
 
 1 
 
PROTOCOL 1 
 
CONCERNING THE DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF “ORIGINATING 
PRODUCTS” AND METHODS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CO-OPERATION 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
SECTION 1  
 
General Provisions  
Article 1 Definitions  
 
SECTION 2  
 
Definition of the Concept of “Originating Products”  
Article 2 Originating Products 
Article 3 Cumulation of Origin  
Article 4 Wholly Obtained Products  
Article 5 Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products  
Article 6 Qualifying Value Content 
Article 7 De Minimis 
Article 8 Insufficient Working or Processing  
Article 9 Unit of Qualification  
Article 10 Accessories, Spare Parts, Tools or Instructional or Other Information Materials 
Article 11 Sets  
Article 12 Neutral Elements  
Article 13 Fungible Goods or Materials 
Article 14 Treatment of Recovered Materials Used in Production of a Remanufactured Good 
Article 15 Packaging Materials and Containers for Retail Sale 
Article 16 Packing Materials and Containers for Shipment  
 
SECTION 3  
 
Territorial Requirements  
Article 17 Principle of Territoriality  
Article 18 Direct Consignment  
Article 19 Exhibitions  
 
SECTION 4  
 
Certification of Origin 
Article 20 General Requirements  
Article 21 Certification of Origin  
Article 22 Validity of Certificates of Origin 
Article 23 Claims for Preferential Treatment 
Article 24 Importation by Instalments 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 2 
 
Article 25 Waiver of Certificates of Origin 
Article 26 Preservation of Certificates of Origin and Supporting Documents 
Article 27 Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
 
SECTION 5  
 
Arrangements for Administrative Co-operation  
Article 28 Co-operation between Competent Authorities  
Article 29 Verification   
Article 30 Third Party Invoices  
Article 31 Settlement of Disputes 
Article 32 Penalties  
 
SECTION 6  
 
Final Provisions  
Article 33 Confidentiality 
Article 34 Amendments or Modifications to this Protocol  
Article 35 Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage  
Article 36 Review and Appeal 
 
 
List of Annexes  
 
ANNEX A:  
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST OF PRODUCT SPECIFIC 
RULES IN ANNEX B  
 
ANNEX B:  
LIST OF PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES  
 
ANNEX C:  
FORMAT OF CERTIFICATES OF ORIGIN   
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 3 
 
SECTION 1 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 1 
Definitions 
 
1.  
For the purposes of this Protocol:  
 
 
(a)  
“chapters” and “headings” and “sub-headings” mean the chapters, the 
headings and sub-headings used in the nomenclature which makes up the HS 
with the changes pursuant to the Recommendation of 26 June 2004 of the 
Customs Co-operation Council;  
 
(b) 
“classified” refers to the classification of a product or material under a 
particular chapter, heading, or sub-heading of the HS;  
 
(c)  
“consignment” means products which are either sent simultaneously from one 
exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering 
their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a 
document, by a single invoice;  
 
(d)  
“customs value” means the value as determined in accordance with the 
Customs Valuation Agreement;  
 
(e)  
“ex-works price” means the price paid for the product ex-works to the 
manufacturer in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried 
out, provided that the price includes the value of all the materials used and all 
other costs related to its production, minus any internal taxes which are, or 
may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported. 
 
Where the actual price paid does not reflect all costs related to the 
manufacturing of the product which are actually incurred in Sri Lanka or in 
Singapore, the ex-works price means the sum of all those costs, minus any 
internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is 
exported;  
 
(f) 
 “fungible materials” means materials that are of the same kind and 
commercial quality, with the same technical and physical characteristics, and 
which cannot be distinguished from one another once they are incorporated 
into the finished product;  
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 4 
 
(g) 
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means those principles 
recognised by consensus or with substantial authoritative support in the 
territory of a Party with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, 
assets and liabilities; the disclosure of information; and the preparation of 
financial statements. These principles may encompass broad guidelines for 
general application, as well as detailed standards, practices and procedures; 
 
 
 
(h)  
“goods” means both materials and products;  
 
(i)  
“manufacture” means any kind of working or processing including assembly; 
 
(j)  
“material” means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used 
in the manufacture of the product; 
 
(k) 
“product” means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for 
later use in another manufacturing operation; and  
 
(l) 
“value of materials” means the customs value at the time of importation of 
the non-originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be 
ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in Sri Lanka or 
in Singapore.  
 
 
 
2.  
For the purposes of sub-paragraph 1(e) of this Article, where the last working or 
processing has been subcontracted to a manufacturer, the term “manufacturer” may 
refer to the enterprise that has employed the subcontractor.  
 
 
SECTION 2 
 
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF “ORIGINATING PRODUCTS” 
 
 
Article 2 
 
Originating Products 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating 
in a Party:  
 
(a) 
products wholly obtained in a Party within the meaning of Article 4 (Wholly 
Obtained Products); and  
 
(b) 
products obtained in a Party incorporating materials which have not been 
wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient 
working or processing in the Party concerned within the meaning of Article 5 
(Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products).  
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 5 
 
Article 3 
Cumulation of Origin 
 
Notwithstanding Article 2 (Originating Products), products shall be considered as originating 
in a Party if such products are obtained there by incorporating materials originating in the 
other Party. It shall not be necessary that the materials of the other Party have undergone 
sufficient working or processing. 
 
 
Article 4 
Wholly Obtained Products 
 
The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in a Party: 
  
(a) 
mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed;  
 
(b) 
plants and vegetable products grown or harvested there;  
 
(c) 
live animals born and raised there;  
 
(d) 
products from live animals raised there; 
 
(e) 
products from slaughtered animals born and raised there; 
 
(f) 
products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; 
 
(g) 
products of aquaculture, where the fish, crustaceans and molluscs are born and 
raised there; 
 
(h) 
fish, shellfish and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed or subsoil outside 
the territories of the Parties and, in accordance with international law, outside the 
territorial sea of non-Parties1 by vessels that are registered, listed or recorded with 
a Party and entitled to fly the flag of that Party; 
 
(i) 
a good produced from goods referred to in sub-paragraph (h) of this Article on 
board a factory ship that is registered, listed or recorded with a Party and entitled 
to fly the flag of that Party; 
 
(j) 
a good other than fish, shellfish and other marine life taken by a Party or a person 
of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside the territories of the Parties, and 
beyond areas over which non-Parties exercise jurisdiction provided that Party or 
person of that Party has the right to exploit that seabed or subsoil in accordance 
with international law; 
 
                                                           
1 Nothing in this Protocol shall prejudice the positions of the Parties with respect to matters relating to the law 
of the sea. 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 6 
 
(k) 
used articles collected there fit only for the recovery of raw materials;  
 
(l) 
waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; 
 
(m) 
waste and scrap derived from used goods collected in the exporting Party, 
provided that those goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials; 
 
(n) 
products extracted from marine soil or subsoil outside their territorial seas 
provided that they have sole rights to work that soil or subsoil; and 
 
(o)  
goods produced there exclusively from products specified in sub-paragraphs 
(a) to (n) of this Article.  
 
 
Article 5 
Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products 
 
For the purposes of sub-paragraph (b) of Article 2 (Originating Products), products which are 
not wholly obtained in a Party are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed in the 
territory of one or both Parties if: 
 
 
(a) 
it is classified in a heading, at the four digit level, of the HS different from 
those in which all the non-originating materials used in its manufacture are 
classified (“change in tariff heading”); or 
 
(b) 
it fulfils a qualifying value content of not less than thirty-five (35) percent in 
accordance with Article 6 (Qualifying Value Content); or 
 
(c) 
it satisfies the applicable Product Specific Rule as set out in Annex B of this 
Protocol, including the Product Specific Rules set out in the Chapter Notes2 in 
Annex B of this Protocol. 
 
 
Article 6 
Qualifying Value Content 
 
1. 
For the purpose of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products), the 
following formula for qualifying value content shall be applied:. 
 
𝑄𝑉𝐶 = 𝐹𝑂𝐵 − 𝑉𝑁𝑀
𝐹𝑂𝐵
𝑋 100 
 
 
                                                           
2 The Product Specific Rules set out in the Chapter Notes in Annex B of this Protocol are applicable to all the 
tariff lines of that Chapter, even where the tariff lines are not specifically listed in Annex B of this Protocol. 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 7 
 
Where:  
 
(a) 
“QVC” is the qualifying value content of the good, expressed as a percentage; 
 
(b) 
“FOB” is the Free On Board value of the particular good determined in 
accordance with the Customs Valuation Agreement; and  
 
(c) 
“VNM” is the value of non-originating materials used by the producer in the 
production of the good, calculated in accordance with paragraph 2 of this 
Article.  
 
2. 
For the purpose of calculating the value of non-originating materials pursuant to sub-
paragraph (c) above, the following formula shall be applied: 
 
𝑉𝑁𝑀 = 𝑇𝑉𝑀 − 𝑄𝑉𝑀 
 
Where:  
 
(a) 
“TVM” is the total value of materials; and 
(b) 
“QVM” is the qualifying value of materials, which shall be calculated as:  
 
i. 
the total value of the material if the material satisfies the rules 
established in Articles 4 (Wholly Obtained Products) and 5 (Sufficiently 
Worked or Processed Products), and the material has undergone its last 
production or operation in the territory of either Party; or  
 
ii. the value of the material that can be attributed to one or both of the 
Parties if the material does not satisfy the rule established in Articles 4 
(Wholly Obtained Products) and 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed 
Products).  
 
3. 
All costs considered for the calculation of qualifying value content shall be recorded 
and maintained in conformity with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
applicable in the territory of the Party where the good is produced. 
 
 
Article 7 
De Minimis 
 
Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (a) of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products), 
a good shall be considered to be originating if the value of all non-originating materials used 
in the production of that good which do not satisfy the requirement of change in tariff 
classification as set out in Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) is not more 
than ten (10) percent of the FOB value of the good. 
 
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 8 
 
 
Article 8 
Insufficient Working or Processing 
 
1.  
Without prejudice to paragraph 2 of this Article, the following operations shall be 
considered as insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating 
products, whether or not the requirements of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or 
Processed Products) are satisfied:  
 
(a)  
preserving operations to ensure that the products remain in good condition 
during transport and storage;  
 
(b)  
breaking-up and assembly of packages;  
 
(c)  
washing, cleaning; removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings;  
 
(d)  
ironing or pressing of textiles and textile articles;  
 
(e) 
simple painting and polishing operations;  
 
(f)  
husking and partial or total milling of rice; polishing and glazing of cereals 
and rice;  
 
(g)  
operations to colour or flavour sugar or form sugar lumps; partial or total 
milling of crystal sugar;  
 
(h)  
peeling, stoning and shelling, of fruits, nuts and vegetables;  
 
(i)  
sharpening, simple grinding, simple cutting or simple slicing;  
 
(j)  
sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching (including the 
making-up of sets of articles);  
 
(k)  
simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or 
boards and all other simple packaging operations;  
 
(l)  
affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs on 
products or their packaging;  
 
(m)  
simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds; mixing of sugar 
with any material;  
 
(n)  
simple addition of water or dilution or dehydration or denaturation of 
products;  
 
(o) 
simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or 
disassembly of products into parts;  
Protocol 1 
 
 
 9 
 
 
(p)  
a combination of two or more of the operations specified in sub-paragraphs (a) 
to (o); or  
 
(q)  
slaughter of animals.  
 
2.  
For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, operations shall be considered simple 
when neither special skills nor machines, apparatus or tools especially produced or 
installed for those operations are required for their performance.  
 
3.  
All operations carried out either in Sri Lanka or in Singapore on a given product shall 
be considered together when determining whether the working or processing 
undergone by that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of 
paragraph 1 of this Article.  
 
 
Article 9 
Unit of Qualification 
 
1.  
The unit of qualification for the application of the provisions of this Protocol shall be 
the product which is considered as the basic unit when determining classification 
using the nomenclature of the HS.  
 
2.  
When a consignment consists of a number of identical products classified under the 
same heading of the HS, each individual item shall be taken into account when 
applying the provisions of this Protocol.  
 
3. 
Where, under General Interpretative Rule 5 of the HS, packaging is included with the 
product for classification purposes, it shall be included for the purposes of 
determining origin.  
 
 
Article 10 
Accessories, Spare Parts, Tools or Instructional or Other Information Materials 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that:  
 
(a) 
in determining whether a good is wholly obtained, or satisfies a process or 
change in tariff classification requirement as set out in Article 5 (Sufficiently 
Worked or Processed Products), accessories, spare parts, tools or instructional 
or other information materials, as described in paragraph 3 of this Article, are to 
be disregarded; or  
 
(b) 
in determining whether a good meets a regional value content requirement, the 
value of the accessories, spare parts, tools or instructional or other information 
materials, as described in paragraph 3 of this Article, are to be taken into 
account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in 
calculating the regional value content of the good.  
Protocol 1 
 
 
 10 
 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide that a good’s accessories, spare parts, tools or instructional 
or other information materials, as described in paragraph 3 of this Article, have the 
originating status of the good with which they are delivered.  
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Article, accessories, spare parts, tools or instructional or other 
information materials are covered when:  
 
(a) 
the accessories, spare parts, tools or instructional or other information 
materials are classified with, delivered with but not invoiced separately from 
the good; and 
 
(b) 
the types, quantities, and value of the accessories, spare parts, tools or 
instructional or other information materials are customary for that good.  
 
 
Article 11 
Sets 
 
Sets, as defined in General Interpretative Rule 3 of the HS, shall be regarded as originating 
when all component products are originating products. When a set is composed of originating 
and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided 
that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the ex-
works price of the set.  
 
 
Article 12 
Neutral Elements 
 
In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the 
origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture:  
 
(a)  
energy and fuel;  
 
 
(b)  
plant and equipment, including goods to be used for their maintenance;  
 
 
(c)  
machines and tools and dies and moulds; spare parts and materials used in the 
maintenance of equipment and buildings; lubricants, greases, compounding 
materials and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment 
and buildings; gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and 
supplies; equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or inspecting the 
good; catalyst and solvent; and  
 
(d)  
other goods which do not enter and which are not intended to enter into the 
final composition of the product.  
 
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 11 
 
 
Article 13 
Fungible Goods or Materials 
 
Each Party shall provide that a fungible good or material is treated as originating based on 
the: 
 
(a) 
physical segregation of each fungible good or material; or 
 
(b) 
use of any inventory management method recognised in the Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles if the fungible good or material is 
commingled, provided that the inventory management method selected is used 
throughout the fiscal year of the person that selected the inventory 
management method. 
 
 
Article 14 
Treatment of Recovered Materials Used in Production of a Remanufactured Good 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that a recovered material derived in the territory of one or 
both of the Parties is treated as originating when it is used in the production of, and 
incorporated into, a remanufactured good.  
 
2. 
For greater certainty:  
 
(a) 
a remanufactured good is originating only if it satisfies the applicable 
requirements of Article 4 (Wholly Obtained Products) or Article 5 
(Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products); and  
 
(b) 
a recovered material that is not used or incorporated in the production of a 
remanufactured good is originating only if it satisfies the applicable 
requirements of Article 4 (Wholly Obtained Products) or Article 5 
(Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products).  
 
Definitions: 
“remanufactured good” means a good3, that is entirely or partially composed of 
recovered materials and:  
 
(a) 
has a similar life expectancy and performs the same as or similar to such a 
good when new; and  
                                                           
3 For greater certainty, such good is limited to those classified under commodity codes 840910, 841221, 
841229, 841239, 842619, 848120 and 852610 based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding 
System (2017 Version) developed by the World Customs Organization. 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 12 
 
(b) 
has a factory warranty similar to that applicable to such a good when new. 
 
 
“recovered material” means a material in the form of individual parts that results 
from:  
 
(a) 
the disassembly of a used good into individual parts; and  
(b) 
the cleaning, inspecting, testing or other processing of those parts as necessary 
for improvement to sound working condition. 
 
 
Article 15 
Packaging Materials and Containers for Retail Sale 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that packaging materials and containers in which a good is 
packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good, are disregarded in determining 
whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good have 
satisfied the applicable process or change in tariff classification requirement set out in 
Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) or whether the good is wholly 
obtained or produced.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide that if a good is subject to a regional value content 
requirement, the value of the packaging materials and containers in which the good is 
packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good, are taken into account as 
originating or non-originating, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value 
content of the good.  
 
 
Article 16 
Packing Materials and Containers for Shipment 
 
Each Party shall provide that packing materials and containers for shipment are disregarded 
in determining whether a good is originating 
 
 
SECTION 3 
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Article 17 
Principle of Territoriality 
 
1.  
The conditions set out in Section 2 (Definition of the Concept of “Originating 
Products”) relating to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without 
interruption in a Party.  
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 13 
 
2.  
If originating goods exported from a Party to a non-Party return, they must be 
considered as non-originating, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
customs authorities that:  
 
(a) 
the returning goods are the same as those exported; and  
 
(b)  
they have not undergone any operation beyond that necessary to preserve them 
in good condition while in that non-Party or while being exported.  
 
 
Article 18 
Direct Consignment 
 
1. 
The originating goods of a Party shall be deemed to meet the consignment criteria 
under this Agreement when they are: 
 
(a) 
transported directly from the territory of that Party to the territory of the other 
Party; or 
 
(b) 
transported through the territory or territories of one or more non-Parties for 
the purpose of transit or temporary storing in warehouses in such territory or 
territories, and the goods have not entered into trade or consumption there, 
provided that: 
 
(i) 
they do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading, or 
operations to preserve them in good condition; or 
 
(ii) 
the transit entry is justified for geographical reasons or by 
considerations related exclusively to transport requirements. 
 
2. 
Evidence that the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article have been fulfilled 
shall be supplied to the customs authorities of the importing Party by the production 
of: 
 
(a) 
a single transport document covering the passage from the exporting Party 
through the country of transit; or 
 
(b) 
a certificate issued by the customs authorities of the country of transit: 
 
(i) 
giving an exact description of the goods; 
 
(ii) 
stating the dates of unloading and reloading of the goods and, where 
applicable, the names of the ships, or the other means of the transport 
used; and 
 
(iii) 
certifying the conditions under which goods remained in the transit 
country; or 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 14 
 
(c) 
where the documents referred to under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) above cannot 
be produced, any substantiating documents acceptable to the customs 
authorities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 19 
Exhibitions 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding Article 18 (Direct Consignment), originating products sent for 
exhibition in a country other than a Party and sold after the exhibition for importation 
in a Party shall benefit on importation from the provisions of this Agreement provided 
it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that:  
 
(a)  
an exporter has consigned these products from a Party to the country in which 
the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there;  
 
(b)  
the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a 
person in a Party;  
 
(c)  
the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately 
thereafter in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; and  
 
(d)  
the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for 
any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition.  
 
2.  
A certificate of origin shall be issued or made out in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4 (Certification of Origin) and submitted to the customs authorities of the 
importing Party in the normal manner. The name and address of the exhibition must 
be indicated thereon. Where necessary, additional documentary evidence of the 
conditions under which they have been exhibited may be required.  
 
3. 
Paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply to any trade, industrial, agricultural or crafts 
exhibition, fair or similar public show or display which is not organised for private 
purposes in shops or business premises with a view to the sale of foreign products, 
and during which the products remain under customs control.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 15 
 
SECTION 4 
 
CERTIFICATION OF ORIGIN  
 
 
Article 20 
General Requirements 
 
1.  
Products originating in Sri Lanka shall, on importation into Singapore, and products 
originating in Singapore shall, on importation into Sri Lanka, benefit from preferential 
tariff treatment of this Agreement upon submission of a Certificate of Origin.  
 
2.  
Originating products within the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified 
in Article 25 (Waiver of Certificate of Origin), benefit from preferential tariff 
treatment of this Agreement without it being necessary to submit the Certificate of 
Origin referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.  
 
 
Article 21 
Certification of Origin 
 
 
1. 
For the purpose of obtaining preferential tariff treatment in the other Party, a 
Certificate of Origin shall be issued by the authorised body of the exporting Party.  
  
2. 
Each Party shall inform the customs authorities of the other Party of the names and 
addresses of the authorised bodies issuing the Certificate of Origin and shall provide 
specimen impressions of official seals used by such authorised bodies.  Any change in 
names, addresses or official seals shall be promptly notified to the other Party.  
 
3. 
The Certificate of Origin shall be issued before or at the time of exportation whenever 
the goods to be exported can be considered originating in that Party subject to this 
Protocol.  The exporter or producer shall submit an application for the Certificate of 
Origin together with appropriate supporting documents proving that the products to be 
exported qualify for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin.  
  
4. 
The Certificate of Origin, based on the format as set out in Annex C (Format of 
Certificates of Origin) of this Protocol, shall be completed in the English language and 
duly signed and stamped, of which the signature and seal may be applied 
electronically, covering one or more goods under one consignment.   
  
5. 
In cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued before or at the time of 
exportation due to involuntary errors or omissions or other valid causes, the 
Certificate of Origin may be issued retrospectively but not later than one (1) year from 
the date of shipment, bearing the words "ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY".  
  
Protocol 1 
 
 
 16 
 
6. 
In cases of theft, loss or accidental destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the exporter 
or producer may, within validity of the original Certificate of Origin, make a written 
request to the authorised bodies of the exporting Party for issuing a certified copy, 
provided that the exporter or producer makes sure that the original copy previously 
issued has not been used.  The certified copy shall bear the words “CERTIFIED 
TRUE COPY of the original Certificate of Origin number ___ dated ___”. 
 
 
Article 22 
Validity of Certificates of Origin 
 
1.  
A Certificate of Origin shall be valid for twelve (12) months from the date of issue in 
the exporting Party. Preferential tariff treatment shall be claimed within the said 
period to the customs authorities of the importing Party.  
 
2.  
Certificates of Origin which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing 
Party after the period of validity specified in paragraph 1 of this Article may be 
accepted for the purposes of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to 
submit these documents within such period is due to exceptional circumstances. 
 
3.  
In cases of belated submission of Certificates of Origin in circumstances other than 
those provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article, the customs authorities of the 
importing Party may accept the Certificates of Origin where the products have been 
imported before the expiry of the period of validity specified in paragraph 1 of this 
Article. 
 
 
Article 23 
Claims for Preferential Treatment 
 
1.  
Each Party shall require an importer in its territory that claims preferential tariff 
treatment for a good imported into its territory from the territory of the other Party to: 
 
(a)  
make a declaration for preference as part of the import application prescribed 
by its legislation, based on importer’s knowledge or information including a 
valid Certificate of Origin, that the good qualifies as an originating good; 
 
(b)  
submit the Certificate of Origin or other documentary evidence of origin at the 
time of the declaration referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, to its customs 
authorities upon request; and 
 
(c)  
promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any duties owing, where the 
importer has reason to believe that a Certificate of Origin on which a 
declaration was based contains information that is incorrect. 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 17 
 
2.  
Each Party shall provide that the importing Party applies preferential tariff treatment 
only in cases where an importer proves the accuracy of origin of the imported goods 
through documentary evidence or any other relevant information in accordance with 
its laws and regulations. 
 
3.  
A Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to an imported good if the importer 
fails to comply with requirements of this Protocol. 
 
4.  
The importing Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment to goods imported after 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement, in cases where the importer does not 
have the Certificate of Origin or other documentary evidence of origin at the time of 
importation, provided that4: 
 
(a)  
the importer had, at the time of importation, indicated to the customs 
authorities of the importing Party his intention to claim preferential tariff 
treatment; and 
 
(b)  
the Certificate of Origin or other documentary evidence of origin is submitted 
to its customs authorities within such period from the date of payment of 
customs duties in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations in the 
importing Party. 
 
 
Article 24 
Importation by Instalments 
 
Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs 
authorities of the importing Party, dismantled or non-assembled products are imported by 
instalments, a single Certificate of Origin for such products may be submitted to the customs 
authorities upon importation of the first instalment.  
 
 
Article 25 
Waiver of Certificates of Origin 
 
Each Party shall provide that a Certificate of Origin shall not be required for the importation 
of any good whose custom value does not exceed US$400 or its equivalent amount in the 
Party’s currency; or such higher amount as may be established by a Party which is importing, 
provided that the importation does not form part of a series of importations that may 
reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the purpose of avoiding the 
declaration requirements. 
 
                                                           
4 For greater certainty, a Party may require, as a condition for the release of the goods, a guarantee in the form 
of a surety, a deposit or other appropriate instrument provided for in its laws and regulations. Such guarantee 
shall not be greater than the amount required by the Party to ensure payment of customs duties, taxes, fees and 
charges ultimately due for the goods should preferential treatment not be granted. 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 18 
 
 
Article 26 
Preservation of Certificates of Origin and Supporting Documents 
 
1.  
Each Party shall provide that an exporter and a producer in its territory that has 
obtained a Certificate of Origin shall maintain in its territory, for three (3) years after 
the date on which the Certificate of Origin was issued or for such longer period as the 
Party may specify, all records relating to the origin of a good for which preferential 
tariff treatment was claimed in the territory of the other Party, including records 
associated with: 
 
(a) 
the purchase of, cost of, value of, shipping of, and payment for, the good that 
is exported from its territory; 
 
(b) 
the sourcing of, the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all 
materials, including neutral elements, used in the production of the good that is 
exported from its territory; and 
 
(c) 
the production of the good in the form in which the good is exported from its 
territory. 
 
2.  
Each Party shall provide that an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a 
good imported into the Party's territory shall maintain in that territory, for three (3) 
years after the date of importation of the good or for such longer period as the Party 
may specify, such documentation, including a copy of the Certificate of Origin, as the 
Party may require relating to the importation of the good. 
 
3.  
Each Party shall permit, in accordance with that Party’s laws and regulations, 
exporters in its territory to maintain documentation or records in any medium, 
provided that the documentation or records can be retrieved and printed.  
 
 
Article 27 
Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
 
1.  
The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the Certificate 
of Origin and those made in the documents submitted to the customs authorities for 
the purposes of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso 
facto render the Certificate of Origin null and void if it is duly established that this 
document does correspond to the products imported.  
 
2.  
Obvious formal errors such as typing errors on a Certificate of Origin should not 
cause the document to be rejected if these errors are not such as to create doubts 
concerning the correctness of the statements made in the document. 
 
 
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 19 
 
SECTION 5 
 
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CO-OPERATION 
 
 
Article 28 
Co-operation between Competent Authorities 
 
1. 
The customs authorities of the Parties shall provide each other with the addresses of 
the competent authorities responsible for verification.  
 
2.  
In order to ensure the proper application of this Protocol, the Parties shall assist each 
other, through their competent authorities, in checking the authenticity of the origin 
declarations and the correctness of the information given in these documents.  
 
 
Article 29 
Verification  
 
1. 
For the purposes of determining whether a good imported into its territory from the 
territory of the other Party is eligible for preferential tariff treatment, the importing 
Party may, through its customs authorities, conduct a verification, which may be in 
sequence, by means of: 
 
(a)  request for a Certificate of Origin from the importer; 
 
(b) 
request for Cost and Production Statement and information from an exporter or a 
producer in the territory of the other Party through the other Party’s competent 
authorities; 
 
(c) 
visit to the premises of an exporter or a producer in the territory of the other Party 
to review the records referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 26 (Preservation of 
Certificates of Origin and Supporting Documents) and observe the facilities used 
in the production of the good, or to that effect any facilities used in the production 
of the materials; or 
 
(d)  such other procedure as the Parties may agree to. 
 
2.  
The importer, exporter or producer that receives a written request pursuant to sub-
paragraphs 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article shall answer and return it within a period of sixty 
(60) days from the date on which it was received. During this period, the importer, 
exporter or producer may have one opportunity to make a written request to the Party 
conducting the verification for an extension of the answering period, for a period not 
exceeding thirty (30) days. 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 20 
 
3. 
In the case where the importer, exporter, or producer does not return the written request 
for information made by the importing Party within the given period or its extension, or 
that the information provided is false or incomplete, the Party may deny preferential 
tariff treatment. 
 
4.  
Prior to conducting a verification visit pursuant to sub-paragraph 1(c) of this Article, a 
Party shall, through its customs authorities: 
 
(a)  deliver a written notification of its intention to conduct the visit to: 
 
(i)  
the exporter or producer whose premises are to be visited; and 
(ii)  the competent authorities of the other Party; and 
 
(b)  obtain the written consent of the exporter or producer whose premises are to be 
visited. 
 
5.  
Where an exporter or producer has not given its written consent to a proposed 
verification visit within thirty (30) days from the receipt of notification pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Article, the notifying Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to 
the relevant good. 
 
6.  
Each Party shall provide that, upon receipt of notification pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Article, such an exporter or producer may, within thirty (30) days of receiving the 
notification, have one opportunity to request to the Party conducting the verification for 
a postponement of the proposed verification visit, for a period not exceeding sixty (60) 
days. This extension shall be notified to the customs authorities of the importing and 
exporting Parties. 
 
7.  
A Party shall not deny preferential tariff treatment to a good solely because a 
verification visit was postponed pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Article. 
 
8.  
After the conclusion of a verification visit, the Party conducting the verification, shall 
provide the exporter or producer whose good was verified, with a written determination 
of whether the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment, based on the relevant 
law and findings of fact. 
 
9.  
Where verifications by a Party show that an exporter or producer repeatedly makes 
false or unsupported representations that a good imported into the Party’s territory 
qualifies as an originating good, the Party may suspend the preferential tariff treatment 
to be accorded to subsequent shipment of identical good exported or produced by such 
a person until that person establishes that the shipment complies with this Protocol, in 
accordance with its domestic laws, regulations or practices. The importing Party shall 
inform the competent authorities of the exporting Party on the evidence and details of 
the suspension made.  
 
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 21 
 
 
Article 30 
Third Party Invoices 
 
The customs authorities of the importing Party may accept Certificates of Origin in cases 
where the sales invoice is issued either by a company located in a third country or by an 
exporter for the account of the said company, provided that the goods meet the requirements 
of this Protocol. 
 
 
Article 31 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
1.  
Without prejudice to Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement), where disputes arise in relation 
to the verification procedures of Article 29 (Verification) which cannot be settled 
between the competent authorities of both Parties, or where they raise a question as to 
the interpretation of this Protocol, such disputes or questions shall be submitted to the 
Joint Committee. 
 
2.  
All disputes between the importer and the competent authorities of the importing 
Party shall be settled under the legislation of that Party.  
 
 
Article 32 
Penalties 
 
Penalties shall be imposed in accordance with the relevant domestic legislation of the Parties 
on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect 
information for the purpose of obtaining preferential treatment for goods.   
 
 
SECTION 6 
 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 33 
Confidentiality 
 
Each Party shall treat as confidential the information submitted in accordance with this 
Protocol by a person or authority of the other Party when such information is designated by 
that Party as confidential. Access to the said information may be refused where disclosure 
would undermine the protection of the commercial interest of the person that submitted the 
information. 
 
 
 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 22 
 
 
Article 34 
Amendments or Modifications to this Protocol 
 
The Parties may amend the provisions of this Protocol in accordance with Article 17.10 
(Amendments) of Chapter 17 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions).  
 
 
Article 35 
Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage 
 
This Agreement may be applied to goods which comply with the provisions of this Protocol 
and which on the date of entry into force of this Agreement are either in transit, in the Parties, 
in temporary storage, in customs warehouses or in free zones, subject to the submission to the 
customs authorities of the importing Party, no later than one (1) year after the import of the 
goods into the territory of that Party, of a Certificate of Origin made out retrospectively in 
accordance with Article 21 (Certification of Origin), and if requested together with the 
documents showing that the goods have been transported directly in accordance with Article 
18 (Direct Consignment).  
 
 
Article 36 
Review and Appeal 
 
The importing Party shall grant the right of appeal in matters relating to the eligibility for 
preferential tariff treatment to importers of goods traded or to be traded between the Parties, 
in accordance with its domestic laws, regulations and administrative practices. 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 23 
 
ANNEX A 
 
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST OF PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES IN 
ANNEX B 
 
 
Note 1 – General introduction 
 
1.1 
The specific rule, or specific set of rules, that applies to a particular subheading is set 
out immediately adjacent to the subheading, heading, or chapter, as applicable. 
 
1.2 
Where a tariff heading or sub-heading is subject to alternative Product Specific Rules, 
it shall be sufficient to comply with one of the rules. 
 
1.3 
A requirement of a change in tariff classification applies only to non-originating 
materials. 
 
1.4 
For the purposes of Annex B: 
 
 
“subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the 
HS; 
 
 
“heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the HS; 
and 
 
 
“chapter” means the first two digits in the tariff classification number under the HS. 
 
1.5 
For the purposes of column “Product Specific Rule” of Annex B: 
 
 
“CTSH” means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good 
have undergone a change in tariff classification at the 6-digit level; and 
 
 
“Refining” means a refining process (chemical or physical), which entails eliminating 
the odour, taste, colour and acidity of a crude fat or oil. 
 
1.6 
Chapter Notes within Annex B apply to all headings or subheadings within the 
indicated chapter. Heading notes within Annex B apply to all subheadings within the 
indicated heading. 
 
1.7 
The first column in the list gives the heading number used in the HS. The second 
column in the list gives the subheading number used in the HS. For each entry, a rule 
is specified in column 4. Where, in some cases, the entry in column 2 is preceded by 
an “ex”, this signifies that the rules in column 4 apply only to the part of that 
subheading as described in column 3. 
 
  
Protocol 1 
 
 
 24 
 
 
Note 2 – Examples of how to apply the rules 
2.1. 
Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) of this Protocol, concerning 
products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of 
other products, shall apply, regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside 
the factory where these products are used or in another factory located in the territory 
of a Party. 
 
Note 3 – General provisions concerning certain goods 
 
3.1 
A fish, crustacean, mollusc or other aquatic invertebrate obtained in the territory of a 
Party is originating even if obtained from eggs, larvae, fry, fingerlings, parr, smolts or 
other immature fish at a post-larval stage that are imported from a non-Party. 
 
3.2 
Agricultural goods falling under Section II of the HS (Vegetable Products) which are 
grown or harvested in the territory of a Party shall be treated as originating even if 
grown from seeds, bulbs, rhizomes, rootstock, cuttings, slips, grafts, shoots, buds, or 
other live parts of plants imported from a non-Party. 
  
Note 4 - Definition of specific processes carried out in respect of certain products of 
Chapters 27 to 39 of Annex B 
 
4.1. 
A “chemical reaction” is a process (including a biochemical process) which results in 
a molecule with a new structure by breaking intramolecular bonds and by forming 
new intramolecular bonds, or by altering the spatial arrangement of atoms in a 
molecule. For the purposes of goods under the headings 39.01-39.15, this comprises 
all types of polymerization reactions. 
 
  
The following are not chemical reactions: 
 
(a) 
dissolving in water or other solvents; 
(b) 
the elimination of solvents, including solvent water; or 
(c) 
the addition or elimination of water of crystallisation. 
 
4.2 
“Atmospheric distillation” means a separation process in which petroleum oils are 
converted, in a distillation tower, into fractions according to boiling point and the 
vapour then condensed into different liquefied fractions. Goods produced from 
petroleum distillation may include liquefied petroleum gas, naphtha, gasoline, 
kerosene, diesel/heating oil, light gas oils and lubricating oil. 
 
4.3 
“Vacuum distillation” means distillation at a pressure below atmospheric but not so 
low that it would be classed as molecular distillation. Vacuum distillation is used for 
distilling high-boiling and heat-sensitive materials such as heavy distillates in 
petroleum oils to produce light to heavy vacuum gas oils and residuum. In some 
refineries, gas oils may be further processed into lubricating oils. 
Protocol 1 
 
 
 25 
 
4.4 
“Direct blending” means a process whereby various petroleum streams from 
processing units or petroleum components from holding or storage tanks are 
combined to create a finished product with pre-determined parameters. 
4.5 
“Standards material” (including a standard solution) is a preparation suitable for 
analytical, calibrating or referencing uses with precise degrees of purity or proportions 
certified by the manufacturer. 
4.6 
“Mixing and blending” means the deliberate and proportionally controlled mixing or 
blending (including dispersing) of materials to conform to predetermined 
specifications, that results in the production of a good having physical or chemical 
characteristics that are relevant to the purposes or uses of the good and are different 
from the input materials.  
4.7 
“Change in particle size” is the deliberate and controlled modification in particle size 
of a good, including micronizing by dissolving a polymer and subsequent 
precipitation, other than by merely crushing or pressing, resulting in a good with a 
defined particle size, defined particle size distribution or defined surface area, that is 
relevant to the purposes of the resulting good and with different physical or chemical 
characteristics from the input materials. 
4.8 
“Purification” means the elimination of eighty (80) percent of the content of existing 
impurities. This reduction or elimination of impurities could result in a good suitable 
for: 
(a) 
pharmaceutical, medicinal, cosmetic, veterinary, or food grade substances; 
 
(b) 
chemical products and reagents for analytical, diagnostic or laboratory uses; 
 
(c) 
elements and components for use in micro-elements; 
 
(d) 
specialized optical uses; 
 
(e) 
non toxic uses for health and safety 
 
(f) 
biotechnical use 
 
(g) 
carriers used in a separation process; or 
 
(h) 
nuclear grade uses. 
 
4.9 
“Isomer separation” means the isolation or separation of isomers from mixtures of 
isomers.
 
