Annex 7-C 
 
ANNEX 7-C 
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
1. Scope and Definition 
 
(a)  This Annex applies to measures affecting the supply of financial services. Reference to 
the supply of a financial service in this Annex shall mean the supply of a service as 
defined in sub-paragraph (t) of Article 7.1 (Definitions). 
 
(b)  For the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of Article 7.1 (Definitions), “a service supplied 
in the exercise of governmental authority” means the following: 
 
(i)  activities conducted by a central bank or monetary authority or by any other 
public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate policies; 
 
(ii)  activities  forming  part  of  a  statutory  system  of  social  security  or  public 
retirement plans; and 
 
(iii)  activities conducted by a public entity for the account or with the guarantee or 
using the financial resources of the Government. 
 
(c)  For the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of Article 7.1 (Definitions), if a Party allows any 
of the activities referred to in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) or (b)(iii) of this paragraph to be 
conducted by its financial service suppliers in competition with a public entity or a 
financial service supplier, “services” shall include such activities. 
 
(d)  Sub-paragraphs (b), (d), (o) and (v) of Article 7.1 (Definitions) shall not apply to 
services covered by this Annex. 
 
(e)  For the purposes of this Annex, references to “service supplier of the other Party” and 
“service supplier” in Chapter 7 (Trade in Services), shall mean “financial service 
supplier of the other Party” and “financial service supplier” respectively, as defined 
in paragraph 7 of this Annex. 
 
 
2. Domestic Regulation 
 
(a)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a Party shall not be prevented 
from  adopting  or  maintaining  measures  for  prudential  reasons,  including  for  the 
protection of investors, depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty 
is owed by a financial service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of the 
financial system. Where such measures do not conform to the provisions of this 
Agreement, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party’s commitments or 
obligations under the Agreement. 
 
(b)  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to disclose information 
relating to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or any confidential or 
proprietary information in the possession of public entities. 
 
1 
 Annex 7-C 
 
3. Recognition 
 
(a)   A Party may recognise prudential measures of the other Party or of a non-Party in the 
application of measures covered by this Chapter. Such recognition may be: 
 
(i)  accorded unilaterally; 
 
(ii)  achieved through harmonisation or other means; or 
 
(iii)  based upon an agreement or arrangement with the other Party or a non-Party. 
 
(b)   A Party according recognition of prudential measures under sub-paragraph (a) above 
shall provide adequate opportunity to the other Party to demonstrate that circumstances 
exist in which there are or would be equivalent regulation, oversight, implementation 
of regulation, and, if appropriate, procedures concerning the sharing of information 
between the Parties. 
 
(c)  Where a Party accords recognition of prudential measures under sub-paragraph (a)(iii) 
above with a non-Party and the circumstances set out in sub-paragraph (b) above exist, 
the Party shall provide adequate opportunity to the other Party to negotiate accession to 
the agreement or arrangement, or to negotiate a comparable agreement or arrangement. 
 
 
4. New Financial Services 
 
Each Party shall permit a financial service supplier of the other Party established in its territory 
to supply any new financial service of a type similar to those services that it would permit its 
own financial service suppliers, in like circumstances, to supply under its domestic law. A Party 
may determine the institutional and juridical form through which the new financial services 
may be supplied and may require authorisation for the supply of the service. Where a Party 
requires such authorisation of the new financial services, it shall give its decision within a 
reasonable time and the authorisation may only be refused for prudential reasons. 
 
 
5. Transparency 
 
(a)   Each Party shall ensure that measures of general application relating to supply of 
financial services are promptly published or otherwise made available in a manner so 
as to enable interested persons to become acquainted with them. 
 
(b)  To the extent practicable, and in accordance with its domestic law, each Party shall: 
 
(i)  publish in advance any measure of general application relating to supply of 
financial services that it proposes to adopt and the purpose of the measure; and 
  
(ii)  provide interested persons with a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
proposed measures. 
 
(c)  To  the  extent  practicable,  each  Party  shall  allow  a  reasonable  time  between  the 
2 
 Annex 7-C 
 
publication of final measures of general application relating to supply of financial 
services and their effective date.  
 
(d)   Each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application relating to supply of 
financial services are administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner.   
 
(e)  Each Party shall maintain appropriate mechanisms for responding to enquires from 
interested persons regarding measures of general application relating to supply of 
financial services. 
 
 
6. Dispute Settlement 
 
Persons appointed to arbitration panels under Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) for disputes on 
obligations  in  financial  services  matters  under  this  Agreement  shall  have  the  necessary 
expertise or experience relevant to the specific financial service under dispute, and be chosen 
strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability and sound judgment. 
 
 
7. Modification of Commitments for Financial Services x 
 
(a)   A Party (referred to in the following sub-paragraphs as the “modifying Party”) may, 
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) below, modify or add to its commitments 
for Financial Services as set out in its Schedule of Specific Commitments for Trade in 
Services. 
 
(b)   Such modifications or additions shall not:  
 
(i)  be  introduced  for  the  purpose  of  affording  undue  protection  to  financial 
institutions of the modifying Party; and 
 
(ii)  discriminate between the other Party and any non-Party, except for measures 
that  accord  differential  treatment  to  that  non-Party  under  any  bilateral  or 
multilateral international agreement between the modifying Party and such non-
Party in force or signed prior to, on or after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c)  The modifying Party may only make such modifications or additions if it: 
 
(i)  notifies the other Party in writing of its intent at least three (3) months prior to 
the date of implementation of the measure; 
 
(ii)  begins consultations with the other Party upon request by that Party and gives 
due consideration to the views expressed by that Party in such consultations 
with  a  view  to  reaching  an  agreement  on  the  appropriate  compensatory 
adjustments; and 
 
(iii)  makes compensatory adjustments to its Schedule of Commitments for Financial 
Services in accordance with any agreement reached between the Parties on 
compensatory adjustments, to the extent possible in the same sector or sub-
3 
 Annex 7-C 
 
sector of the financial institution that is affected by the modification so as to 
maintain a general level of mutually advantageous commitments that is not less 
favourable to investments and trade in financial services than that provided for 
in its Schedule of Commitments prior to the modification. 
 
(d)   If agreement is  not  reached between the Parties on any necessary compensatory 
adjustments, the matter may be referred to arbitration. 
 
 
8. Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a)  “financial service” is any service of a financial nature offered by a financial service 
supplier of a Party. Financial services include all insurance and insurance-related 
services, and all banking and other financial services (excluding insurance). Financial 
services include the following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(i)  direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(A) life; 
 
(B) non-life; 
 
(ii)  reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(iii)  insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; 
 
(iv)  services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment 
and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
(v)  acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
 
(vi)  lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring and 
financing of commercial transaction; 
 
(vii)  financial leasing; 
 
(viii)  all payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge and debit 
cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts; 
 
(ix)  guarantees and commitments; 
 
(x)  trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an exchange, 
in an over-the counter market or otherwise, the following: 
 
4 
 Annex 7-C 
 
(A)  money  market  instruments  (including  cheques,  bills,  certificates  of 
deposits); 
 
(B)  foreign exchange; 
 
(B)  derivative products including, but not limited to, futures and options; 
 
(C)  exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products such as 
swaps, forward rate agreements; 
 
(E)  transferable securities; 
 
(F)  other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including bullion; 
 
(xi)  participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting and 
placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of services 
related to such issues; 
 
(xii)  money broking; 
 
(xiii)  asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of collective 
investment management, pension fund management, custodial, depository and 
trust services; 
 
(xiv)  settlement  and  clearing  services  for  financial  assets,  including  securities, 
derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
 
(xv)  provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data processing 
and related software by suppliers of other financial services; 
 
(xvi)  advisory,  intermediation  and  other  auxiliary  financial  services  on  all  the 
activities listed in sub-paragraphs (v) through (xv) above, including credit 
reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, advice on 
acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy. 
 
(b)  “financial service supplier” means any natural or juridical person of a Party wishing 
to supply or supplying financial services, but the term “financial service supplier” 
does not include a public entity; 
 
(c)  “juridical  person”  has  the  same  meaning  as  sub-paragraph  (f)  of  Article  7.1 
(Definitions). 
 
(d)  “juridical person of a Party” means a juridical person which is either: 
 
(i)  constituted  or  otherwise  organised  under  the  law  of  the  other  Party; 
or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, owned or 
controlled by: 
 
5 
 Annex 7-C 
 
(A)  natural persons of the other Party; or 
 
(B)  juridical persons of the other Party identified under sub-paragraph (d)(i) 
above; 
 
(e)  “natural person of a Party” has the same meaning as sub-paragraph (l) of Article 7.1 
(Definitions); 
 
(f)  “public entity” means: 
 
(i)  a government, a central bank or a monetary authority, of a Party, or an entity 
owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally engaged in carrying out 
governmental functions or activities for governmental purposes, not including 
an entity principally engaged in supplying financial services on commercial 
terms; or 
 
(ii)  a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a central bank or 
monetary authority, when exercising those functions; 
 
(g)  “self-regulatory organisation” means any non-governmental body, including any 
securities  or  futures  exchange  or  market,  clearing  agency,  other  organisation  or 
association that exercises regulatory or supervisory authority over financial service 
suppliers or financial institutions, by statute or delegation from central, regional or local 
government or authorities. 
 
6 
 