 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-1 
CHAPTER 2 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
SECTION 2-A 
COMMON PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 2.1 
Objective 
 
The Parties shall progressively liberalise trade in goods over a transitional period starting 
from the date of the entry into force of this Agreement in accordance with this Agreement 
and in conformity with Article XXIV of the GATT 1994. 
 
 
Article 2.2 
Scope 
 
This Chapter shall apply to trade in goods between the Parties.  
 
 
Article 2.3 
National Treatment 
 
1. 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in 
accordance with Article III of the GATT 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary 
Provisions. To this end, the obligations contained in Article III of the GATT 1994, 
including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions, are incorporated into and made 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
2 
For greater certainty, the treatment to be accorded by a Party under paragraph 1 of this 
Article means, with respect to a regional level of government, treatment no less 
favourable than the most favourable treatment that regional level of government 
accords to any like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods, as the case may be, of 
the Party of which it forms a part. 
 
 
Article 2.4 
Customs Duty 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, a customs duty includes any duty or charge of any 
kind imposed on or in connection with the importation or exportation of a good, 
including any form of surtax or surcharge imposed on or in connection with such 
importation or exportation, but excluding that as set out in paragraph 2 of this Article.  
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-2 
2.  
A “customs duty” does not include any: 
 
(a) 
charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article 2.3 
(National Treatment); 
 
(b) 
duty imposed consistently with Chapter 3 (Trade Remedies); 
 
(c) 
duty applied consistently with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture and 
the DSU;  
 
(d) 
fee or other charge imposed consistently with Article 2.13 (Fees and 
Formalities Connected with Importation and Exportation). 
 
Article 2.5 
Classification of Goods 
 
The classification of goods in trade between the Parties shall be governed by each Party’s 
respective tariff nomenclature in conformity with the HS and its amendments.   
 
 
SECTION 2-B 
REDUCTION AND/OR ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
 
Article 2.6 
Reduction and/or Elimination of Customs Duties on Imports 
 
1. 
Each Party shall reduce and/or eliminate its customs duties on imported goods 
originating in the other Party in accordance with the Schedules in Annex 2-A 
(Elimination of Customs Duties). For the purposes of this Chapter, “originating” 
means in accordance with the rules of origin set out in Protocol 1 (Concerning the 
Definition of the Concept of “Originating Product” and Methods of Administrative 
Co-operation). 
 
2. 
The base rate of customs duties on imports to which the successive reductions are to 
be applied under paragraph 1 of this Article, shall be that specified in the Schedules in 
Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties).  
 
3. 
If at any moment a Party reduces its applied most favoured nation (“MFN”) customs 
duty rates on imports after the date of the entry into force of this Agreement, that duty 
rate shall apply if and for as long as it is lower than the customs duty rate on imports 
calculated in accordance with its Schedule in Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs 
Duties). 
 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-3 
4. 
Three years after the date of the entry into force of this Agreement, or at the request of 
either Party, the Parties shall consult to consider accelerating the elimination of 
customs duties set out in the Schedules in Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs 
Duties). 
 
5. 
An agreement between the Parties to accelerate the elimination of a customs duty on 
an originating good shall supersede any duty rate or staging category determined 
pursuant to their respective Schedules in Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties) 
for that good.  
 
6. 
A Party may at any time unilaterally accelerate the elimination of customs duties on 
originating goods set out in its Schedule in Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs 
Duties). 
 
 
Article 2.7 
Elimination of Customs Duties and Taxes on Exports 
 
A Party shall not impose customs duties or taxes on or in connection with the exportation or 
sale for export of goods to the other Party at a rate higher than those imposed on or in 
connection with the exportation or sale for export of like goods to any non-Party. 
 
 
Article 2.8 
Goods Re-Entered after Repair or Alteration 
 
1. 
A Party shall not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, that re-
enters its territory after that good has been temporarily exported from its territory to 
the territory of the other Party for repair or alteration, regardless of whether such 
repair or alteration could be performed in the territory of the Party from which the 
good was exported for repair or alteration or has increased the value of the good
 
 
2. 
A Party shall not apply a customs duty to a good, regardless of its origin, admitted 
temporarily from the territory of the other Party for repair or alteration. 
 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Article, repair or alteration does not include an operation or 
process that: 
 
 
(a) 
destroys a good's essential characteristics or creates a new or commercially 
different good; or  
 
(b) 
transforms an unfinished good into a finished good. 
 
 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-4 
 
 
Article 2.9 
Duty-Free Entry of Commercial Samples of Negligible Value and Printed Advertising 
Material 
 
Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to commercial samples of negligible value1 and printed 
advertising material imported from the territory of the other Party, regardless of their origin, 
but may require that:  
 
(a) 
such samples be imported solely for the solicitation of orders for goods, or services 
provided from the territory, of the other Party or a non-Party; or 
 
(b) 
such advertising materials are imported in packets that each contain no more than one 
copy of each material and that neither such materials nor packets form part of a larger 
consignment. 
 
 
Article 2.10 
Standstill 
 
1. 
Except as provided in the Schedules in Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties), 
upon the entry into force of this Agreement, a Party shall not increase any existing 
customs duty or introduce any new customs duty, on the importation of a good 
originating in the other Party. This shall not preclude either Party from raising a 
customs duty to the level established in its Schedule in Annex 2-A (Elimination of 
Customs Duties) following a unilateral reduction of its applied MFN customs duty 
rates on imports.  
 
2. 
Paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to goods which are not subjected to tariff 
reduction/elimination under a Party’s Schedule in Annex 2-A (Elimination of 
Customs Duties), unless otherwise provided in the same Schedule. 
 
3. 
However, in the case of para-tariffs listed out in the Annex 2-A (Elimination of 
Customs Duties), paragraph 1 of this Article may be applied, on an exceptional basis, 
to mutually agreed specific tariff lines in the negative list. 
 
 
SECTION 2-C 
NON-TARIFF MEASURES 
 
 
Article 2.11 
Import and Export Restrictions 
 
                                                 
1 For the purposes of this Article, “commercial samples of negligible value” shall be defined according to each 
Party’s domestic legislation. 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-5 
1. 
A Party shall not adopt or maintain any prohibition or restriction on the importation of 
any good of the other Party or on the exportation or sale for export of any good 
destined for the territory of the other Party, in accordance with Article XI of GATT 
1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions. To this end Article XI of 
GATT 1994, its Notes and Supplementary Provisions are incorporated into and made 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
2. 
The Parties understand that before taking any measures provided for in sub-paragraph 
2(a) and sub-paragraph 2(c) of Article XI of GATT 1994, the Party intending to take 
the measures shall supply the other Party with all relevant information as far in 
advance as practicable, with a view to seeking a solution acceptable to the Parties. 
The Parties may agree on any means needed to put an end to the difficulties. If no 
agreement is reached within thirty (30) days of supplying such information, the Party 
intending to apply the measures under this Article may proceed to do so.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Article, where exceptional and critical 
circumstances requiring immediate action make prior information or examination 
impossible, the Party intending to take the measures may apply forthwith the 
precautionary measures necessary to deal with the situation and shall inform the other 
Party immediately thereof. 
 
5. 
The Parties understand that the rights and obligations in GATT 1994 incorporated by 
paragraph 1 of this Article prohibit, in any circumstances in which any other form of 
restriction is prohibited, a Party from adopting or maintaining:  
 
(a) 
export price requirements, except as permitted in enforcement of 
countervailing and anti-dumping duty orders and undertakings;  
 
(b) 
import licensing conditioned on the fulfilment of a performance requirement; 
or 
 
(c) 
voluntary export restraints inconsistent with Article VI of GATT 1994, as 
implemented under Article 18 of the SCM Agreement and Article 8.1 of the 
Anti-Dumping  Agreement. 
 
 
Article 2.12 
Remanufactured Goods 
 
1. 
For greater certainty, paragraph 1 of Article 2.11 (Import and Export Restrictions) 
applies to prohibitions and restrictions on the importation of remanufactured goods.  
 
2. 
If a Party adopts or maintains measures prohibiting or restricting the importation of 
used goods, it shall not apply those measures to remanufactured goods. 
 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-6 
3. 
For the avoidance of doubt, “remanufactured goods” under this Chapter shall be as 
defined in Article 14 (Treatment of Recovered Materials Used in Production of a 
Remanufactured Good) of Protocol 1 (Concerning the Definition of the Concept of 
“Originating Product” and Methods of Administrative Co-operation). 
 
Article 2.13 
Fees and Formalities Connected with Importation and Exportation 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with Article VIII of GATT 1994, including its 
Notes and Supplementary provisions, that all fees and charges of whatever character 
(other than customs duties, and measures listed in sub-paragraph 2(a), sub-paragraph 
2(b) and sub-paragraph 2(c) of Article 2.4 (Customs Duty)) imposed on or in 
connection with importation or exportation of goods: 
 
(a) are limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered, which shall not 
be calculated on an ad valorem basis, and  
 
(b) shall not represent an indirect protection to domestic goods or a taxation of 
imports or exports for fiscal purposes.  
 
2. 
The obligation set out in sub-paragraph 1(a) of this Article shall be implemented 
pursuant to the transitional arrangements that each Party has provided for under the 
TFA. Notwithstanding the above, each Party shall fully implement the obligation in 
sub-paragraph 1(a) of this Article no later than five (5) years from the date of entry 
into force of the TFA or at any time earlier as notified by that Party to the WTO.   
 
3. 
Each Party shall make available via an officially designated medium, including 
through the internet, fees and charges it imposes in connection with importation or 
exportation. 
 
4. 
A Party shall not require consular transactions2, including related fees and charges, in 
connection with the importation of any good of the other Party. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall periodically review its fees and charges with a view to reducing their 
number and diversity, where practicable. 
 
 
Article 2.14 
Import and Export Licensing Procedures 
 
1. 
The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations under the Import Licensing 
Agreement. 
 
                                                 
2 “Consular transactions” means the procedure of obtaining from a consul of the importing Party in the territory of the 
exporting Party, or in the territory of a non-Party, a consular invoice or a consular visa for a commercial invoice, certificate 
of origin, manifest, shippers’ export declaration or any other customs documentation in connection with the importation of 
the good. 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-7 
2. 
The Parties shall introduce and administer any import or export licensing procedures3 
in accordance with: 
 
(a) 
Paragraphs 1 to 9 of Article 1 of the Import Licensing Agreement; 
 
(b) 
Article 2 of the Import Licensing Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
Article 3 of the Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
To this end, the provisions referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
paragraph are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement. The Parties shall 
apply those provisions, mutatis mutandis, for any export licensing procedures. 
 
3.  
The Parties shall ensure that all export licensing procedures are neutral in application 
and administered in a fair, equitable, non-discriminatory and transparent manner.  
 
4. 
Each Party shall respond within sixty (60) days to a reasonable enquiry from the other 
Party regarding:  
 
(a) 
any licensing procedures which the Party intends to adopt, or has adopted or 
maintained; or  
 
(b) 
the criteria for granting and/or allocating import or export licenses.  
 
 
Article 2.15 
State Trading Enterprises 
 
1. 
The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations under Article XVII of GATT 
1994, its Notes and Supplementary Provisions and the Understanding on the 
Interpretation of Article XVII of the GATT 1994, contained in Annex 1-A to the WTO 
Agreement, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, 
mutatis mutandis.  
 
2. 
A Party may request information from the other Party bilaterally as foreseen in sub-
paragraph 4(c) and sub-paragraph 4(d) of Article XVII of GATT 1994. 
 
3. 
Neither Party shall apply any measure that is subject to the requirements under 
paragraph 2 of this Article to food purchased for non-commercial humanitarian 
purposes. 
 
 
SECTION 2-D 
SPECIFIC EXCEPTIONS RELATED TO GOODS 
                                                 
3 For the purposes of this Article, “non-automatic licensing procedures” means licensing procedures where approval of the 
application is not granted for all legal and natural persons who fulfil the requirements of the Party concerned for engaging in 
import or export operations involving the goods subject to licensing procedures. 
 
Chapter 2 – National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
2-8 
 
 
Article 2.16 
General Exceptions 
 
1. Nothing in this Chapter prevents the taking of measures in accordance with Article 
XX of GATT 1994, its Notes and Supplementary Provisions, which are hereby 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2. The Parties understand that before taking any measures provided for in paragraphs (i) 
and (j) of Article XX of GATT 1994, the exporting Party intending to take the 
measures shall supply the other Party with all relevant information, with a view to 
seeking a solution acceptable to the Parties. The Parties may agree on any means 
needed to put an end to the difficulties.  If no agreement is reached within thirty (30) 
days, the exporting Party may apply measures under this Article on the exportation of 
the good concerned. Where exceptional and critical circumstances requiring 
immediate action make prior information or examination impossible, the Party 
intending to take the measures may apply forthwith the precautionary measures 
necessary to deal with the situation and shall inform the other Party immediately 
thereof. 
