Annex 4-A 
 
ANNEX 4-A 
SECTORAL ANNEX ON FOOD PRODUCTS 
 
 
Pursuant  to  Chapter  4  (Sanitary  and  Phytosanitary  Measures),  the  Parties  agree  to  this 
Sectoral Annex on Food Products for the purpose of facilitating trade in food products 
between the Parties. 
 
The Parties have agreed as follows: 
 
1.   Scope 
   
(a)  This Sectoral Annex applies to the regulation of food products exported from one 
Party to the other Party. 
 
(b)   This Sectoral Annex shall not affect the Parties’ existing rights and obligations to 
each other under the SPS Agreement and the TBT Agreement. 
 
2.   Definitions 
For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, “food products” means any food as defined under 
the Sale of Food Act for Singapore and the Food Act 1980 for Sri Lanka or the respective 
successor Acts. 
 
3.   Obligations 
 
Applicable laws, regulations, and administrative provisions 
(a)   Information regarding the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of each 
Party applicable to the import of selected food products are set out in the Schedule to 
this Annex.  Such  information  shall  include,  inter  alia,  applicable  technical 
regulations, required tests, utilised test methods, and the quarantine process. 
(b)   Each  Party  shall  promptly  update  the  Schedule  to  reflect  any  change  to  their 
applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions. Such updates can take the 
form of a link to the new laws, regulations and administrative provisions. 
(c)  Each Party shall limit the substances and organisms that a product is tested for, the 
testing methods utilised, and quarantine processes to what is set out in its laws, 
regulations  and  administrative  provisions,  except  where,  as  duly  explained  upon 
request, such additional requirements are necessary to protect human, animal or plant 
life or health. 
(d)  The Parties shall exchange information on emergency recalls of food products and 
shall identify in the Schedule contact points for the exchange of such information.  
 
Information relating to proprietary formulas 
(e)  When  gathering  information  relating  to  proprietary  formulas  in  the  preparation, 
adoption and application of technical regulations and standards, each Party shall:  
(i)  ensure that its information requirements are limited to what is necessary to 
achieve its legitimate objective; and  
1 Annex 4-A 
 
(ii)  ensure that the confidentiality of information about products originating in the 
territory of another Party arising from, or supplied in connection with, the 
preparation, adoption, and application of technical regulations and standards, 
is respected in the same way as for domestic products and in a manner that 
protects legitimate commercial interests.  
  If a Party gathers confidential information relating to proprietary formulas, it may use 
that  information  in  the  course  of  administrative  and  judicial  proceedings  in 
accordance with its laws, provided that the Party has procedures to maintain the 
confidentiality of the information in the course of those proceedings.  
(f)  Nothing in sub-paragraph (e) above shall prevent a Party from requiring ingredients to 
be listed on labels consistent with CODEX STAN 1-1985 and CODEX STAN 107-
1981, as may be amended, except when those standards would be an ineffective or 
inappropriate means for the fulfilment of a legitimate objective. 
 
   
2 Annex 4-A 
 
SCHEDULE:  
 
LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE IMPORT 
OF  FOOD  PRODUCTS,  PURSUANT  TO  SUB-PARAGRAPH  3(a)  OF  ANNEX  4-A 
(SECTORAL ANNEX ON FOOD PRODUCTS) 
For Singapore: 
The latest information on Singapore’s laws, regulations and administrative provisions for the 
import of food products can be accessed at: 
www.ava.gov.sg/explore-by-sections/food/bringing-food-into-singapore-and-
exporting/commercial-food-imports 
After complying with the below requirements, the importer would need to apply for an 
import permit through the TradeXchange system. The information below is accurate as of 30 
June 2017: 
 
3 Annex 4-A 
 
4 Annex 4-A 
 
5 Annex 4-A 
 
                                                 
1 brain, eye, spinal cord, skull and vertebral column from cattle 30 months and older, and the distal ileum and 
tonsils from all cattle. 
6 Annex 4-A 
 
7 Annex 4-A 
 
8 Annex 4-A 
 
9 Annex 4-A 
 
 
10 Annex 4-A 
 
11 Annex 4-A 
 
12 Annex 4-A 
 
13 Annex 4-A 
 
14 Annex 4-A 
 
15 Annex 4-A 
 
 
   
16 Annex 4-A 
 
For Sri Lanka: 
 
Details and regulations available in the following websites 
Ministry of Health - http://www.health.gov.lk/enWeb/FOODWEB/index.html 
DAPH - 
http://daph.gov.lk/web/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=24&Itemid=126&l
ang=en 
 
17 Annex 4-A 
 
18 Annex 4-A 
 
19 Annex 4-A 
 
20 Annex 4-A 
 
21 Annex 4-A 
 
22 Annex 4-A 
 
23 Annex 4-A 
 
24 Annex 4-A 
 
25 Annex 4-A 
 
26 Annex 4-A 
 
 
*FCAU= Food Control Administration Unit of the Ministry of Health 
** SLSI = Sri Lanka Standard Institution 
27 Annex 4-A 
 
 
FOR  EMERGENCY  FOOD  RECALL  INFORMATION,  PURSUANT  TO 
PARAGRAPH 3(d) OF ANNEX 4-A (SECTORAL ANNEX ON FOOD PRODUCTS) 
For Singapore:  
Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore  
Address: 52 Jurong Gateway Road #14-00, Singapore 608550 
Fax: (65) 63341381 
Email: WTO_Contact@ava.gov.sg 
Web: www.ava.gov.sg 
Designated position: Director-General, Agri-Food and Veterinary Services  
 
For Sri Lanka: 
 
Food Control Administration Unit 
Address: No.464, T.B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka 
Email: lankacodex@gmail.com; ltgamlath@gmail.com 
Designated position: Head, Food Control Administration Unit 
28 