Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
 
CHAPTER 3 
TRADE REMEDIES 
 
 
SECTION 3-A 
ANTI-DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING MEASURES 
 
 
Article 3.1 
Anti-Dumping, Subsidies and Countervailing Measures 
 
1.  Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article VI of the GATT 1994 and 
the Anti-Dumping Agreement and any amendment thereto. To this end, the provisions 
of the Anti-Dumping Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the extent not 
specifically provided for in this Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Articles VI and XVI of GATT 1994 
and the SCM Agreement, or any amendments thereto. To this end, the provisions of 
the SCM Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the extent not specifically 
provided for in this Agreement.   
 
3.  The  Parties,  recognising  that  anti-dumping  and  countervailing  measures  can  be 
abused to obstruct trade, agree that: 
 
(a)  such measures should be used in full compliance with the relevant WTO 
requirements and should be based on a fair and transparent system; and 
 
(b)  careful consideration may be given to the interests of the Party against which 
such a measure is to be imposed. 
 
4.  For the purpose of this Section, origin shall be determined in accordance with the 
non-preferential rules of origin of the Parties. 
 
 
Article 3.2 
Practices Relating to Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duty Proceedings 
 
1.  Upon receipt by a Party’s investigating authorities of a properly documented anti-
dumping or countervailing duty application with respect to imports from the other 
Party, the Party shall immediately provide written notification of its receipt of the 
application to the other Party.  
 
3-1 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
2.  In any proceeding in which a Party’s investigating authorities determine to conduct an 
in-person verification of information that is provided by a respondent1, and that is 
pertinent  to  the  calculation  of  anti-dumping  duty  margins  or  the  level  of  a 
countervailable  subsidy,  the  investigating  authorities  shall  promptly  notify  each 
respondent of their intent, and:  
  
(a)  provide the respondent at least ten (10) working days’ advance notice of the 
dates on which the investigating authorities intend to conduct an in-person 
verification of the information; 
 
(b)  at least five (5) working days prior to an in-person verification, provide to the 
respondent  a  document  that  sets  out  the  topics  the  respondent  should  be 
prepared to address during the verification and that describes the types of 
supporting documentation to be made available for review; and  
 
(c)  after an in-person verification is completed, and subject to the protection of 
confidential information2, issue a written report that describes the methods and 
procedures followed in carrying out the verification and the extent to which 
the information provided by the respondent was supported by the documents 
reviewed during the verification. The report shall be made available to all 
interested parties in sufficient time for the parties to defend their interests. 
 
3.  A Party’s investigating authorities shall maintain a public file for each investigation 
and review that contains:  
 
(a)  all non-confidential documents that are part of the record of the investigation 
or review; and 
 
(b)  to  the  extent  feasible  without  revealing  confidential  information,  non-
confidential summaries of confidential information that is contained in the 
record of each investigation or review.  
 
The public file and a list of all documents that are contained in the record of the 
investigation or review shall be made physically available for inspection and copying 
during the investigating authorities’ normal business hours or electronically available 
for download3.  
 
4.  If, in an anti-dumping or countervailing duty action that involves imports from the 
other Party, a Party’s investigating authorities determine that a timely response to a 
                                                 
1 For the purposes of this paragraph, “respondent” means a producer, manufacturer, exporter, importer, and, 
where appropriate, a government or government entity, that is required by a Party’s investigating authorities to 
respond to an anti-dumping or countervailing duty questionnaire.   
2 For the purposes of this Chapter, “confidential information” includes information which is provided on a 
confidential basis and which is by its nature confidential, for example, because its disclosure would be of 
significant competitive advantage to a competitor or because its disclosure would have a significantly adverse 
effect upon a person supplying the information or upon a person from  whom that person acquired the 
information. 
3 Charges for the copies, if any, are limited in amount to the approximate cost of the services rendered. 
3-2 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
request  for  information  does  not  comply  with  the  request,  the  investigating 
authorities, to the extent practicable in light of time limits established to complete the 
anti-dumping or countervailing duty action, shall inform the interested party that 
submitted the response of the nature of the deficiency and, provide that interested 
party with an opportunity to remedy or explain the deficiency. If that interested party 
submits  further  information  in  response  to  that  deficiency  and  the  investigating 
authorities  find  that  the  response  is  not  satisfactory,  or  that  the  response  is  not 
submitted  within  the  applicable  time  limits,  and  if  the  investigating  authorities 
disregard  all  or  part  of  the  original  and  subsequent  responses,  the  investigating 
authorities shall explain in the determination or other written document the reasons 
for disregarding the information. 
  
5.  Before a final determination is made, a Party’s investigating authorities shall inform 
all interested parties of the essential facts that form the basis of the decision whether 
to apply definitive measures. Subject to the protection of confidential information, the 
investigating authorities shall use any reasonable means to disclose the essential facts, 
which includes a report summarising the data in the record, a draft or preliminary 
determination  or  some  combination  of  those  reports  or  determinations.  Each 
interested party shall be granted the opportunity and sufficient time to review and 
respond to the disclosure of essential facts. 
 
 
Article 3.3 
Exemption from Investigation after Termination 
 
Where an anti-dumping investigation in respect of goods from the other Party is terminated 
with negative final determination, no investigation shall be initiated on the same goods by the 
importing  Party  within  one  (1)  year  from  the  date  of  termination  of  the  previous 
investigation, unless the pre-initiation examination indicates that the circumstances have 
changed. 
 
 
Article 3.4 
Lesser Duty Rule 
 
Should a Party decide to impose any anti-dumping or countervailing duty, and such lesser 
duty would be adequate to remove the injury, the amount of final duty imposed shall not 
exceed that lesser duty. 
 
 
Article 3.5 
Consideration of Economic Interest 
 
Anti-dumping or countervailing measures shall not be applied by a Party where, on the basis 
of the information made available during the investigation, it can clearly be concluded that it 
is  not  in  the economic interest  of the Party  conducting the investigation  to  apply such 
measures. Economic interest shall take into account the situation of the domestic industry, 
3-3 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
importers  and  their  representative  associations,  representative  users  and  representative 
consumer  organisations,  to  the  extent  they  have  provided  relevant  information  to  the 
investigating authorities. 
 
 
 SECTION 3-B 
CO-OPERATION 
 
 
Article 3.6 
Areas of Co-operation 
 
1.  The Parties will endeavour, within available resources, to co-operate in preventing 
circumvention of trade remedies. The areas of co-operation are as follows: 
 
(a)  forwarding questionnaires and other documents to interested parties; 
 
(b)  exchanging information relating to investigations; and 
 
(c)  any other possible areas to be mutually agreed by the Parties. 
 
2.  This Section shall not be construed to require the other Party to furnish or allow 
access to confidential information pursuant to this Chapter, the disclosure of which it 
considers would: 
 
(a)  be contrary to the public interest as determined by its laws; 
 
(b)  be contrary to any of its laws, including but not limited to, those protecting 
personal  data or financial  affairs and accounts of individual customers of 
financial institutions; 
 
(c)  impede law enforcement; or 
 
(d)  prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests,  which  may  include 
competitive position of particular enterprises, public or private. 
 
3.  Where a Party provides information to the other Party in accordance with this Section 
and designates the information as confidential, the Party receiving the information 
shall maintain the confidentiality of the information, use it only for the purposes 
specified by the Party providing the information, and not disclose it without specific 
written permission of the Party providing the information. 
 
4.  Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) and Article 17.1 (Joint Committee), Article 17.2 
(Committees and Working Groups) and Article 17.4 (Decision-Making) of Chapter 17 
(Institutional, General and Final Provisions) shall not apply to this Section. 
 
 
3-4 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
SECTION 3-C 
GLOBAL SAFEGUARD MEASURES 
 
 
Article 3.7 
Application of Global Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article XIX of the GATT 1994, the 
Safeguards Agreement and Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture. To this end, 
the provisions of the Safeguards Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the 
extent not specifically provided for in this Agreement. 
 
2.  No Party shall apply, with respect to the same good, at the same time: 
 
(a)  a bilateral safeguard measure; and 
 
(b)  a  measure  under  Article  XIX  of  the  GATT  1994  and  the  Safeguards 
Agreement. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Section, origin shall be determined in accordance with the 
non-preferential rules of origin of the Parties.  
 
4.  When imposing safeguard measures, the Parties shall endeavour to impose them in a 
way that least affects their bilateral trade. 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraph 4 of this Article, the Party intending to apply the 
definitive safeguard measures may notify the other Party and give the possibility to 
hold bilateral consultations. 
 
6.  A Party that initiates a safeguard investigatory process shall provide to the other Party 
an electronic copy of the notification given to the WTO Committee on Safeguards 
under Article 12.1(a) of the Safeguards Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 3-D  
BILATERAL SAFEGUARD MEASURES 
 
 
Article 3.8 
Definitions  
 
For the purposes of this Section:  
   
(a)  “serious injury” means a significant overall impairment in the position of a 
domestic industry; 
 
(b)  “threat of serious injury” means a serious injury that is clearly imminent and 
3-5 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
shall  be  understood  in  accordance  with  Article  4.1(b)  of  the  Safeguards 
Agreement; 
 
(c)  "domestic industry" means the producers as a whole of the like or directly 
competitive products, operating within the territory of a Party or those whose 
collective output of the like or directly competitive products constitutes a major 
proportion of the total domestic production of those products; 
 
(d)  “bilateral safeguard measure” means a safeguard measure described in this 
Section. 
 
 
(f)  “Competent Authority” means the investigating authorities as determined by 
each Party. 
  
 
Article 3.9 
Application of Bilateral Safeguard Measures  
 
1.  Only  during the transitional safeguard  period, if, as a  result of the reduction or 
elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, originating goods of a Party are 
being imported into the territory of the other Party in such increased quantities, in 
absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions as to 
cause or threaten to cause serious injury to a domestic industry producing like or 
directly competitive goods, the importing Party may adopt measures provided for in 
paragraph 2 of this Article in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid 
down in this Section.  
 
2.  The importing Party may take a bilateral safeguard measure which:  
 
(a)  suspends further reduction of the rate of customs duty on the good concerned 
provided for under Annex 2-A (Elimination of Customs Duties); or  
 
(b)  increases the rate of customs duty on the good concerned to a level which does 
not exceed the lesser of:  
 
(i)  the MFN applied rate of customs duty on the good in effect at the time 
the measure is taken; or 
 
(ii)  the MFN applied rate of customs duty on the good in effect on the day 
immediately preceding the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
3-6 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
Article 3.10 
Conditions and Limitations on the Imposition of Bilateral Safeguard Measures  
 
 
1.  The following conditions and limitations shall apply to an investigation or a measure 
described in Article 3.9 (Application of Bilateral Safeguard Measures):  
 
(a)  A Party shall immediately deliver written notice to the other Party upon:  
 
(i)  initiating an investigatory process relating to serious injury or threat 
thereof and the reasons for it;  
 
(ii)  making a finding of serious injury or threat thereof caused by increased 
imports; and  
 
(iii)  taking a decision to apply or the imposition or the extension of bilateral 
safeguard measures;  
 
(b)  in making the notification referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, the Party 
proposing to apply a bilateral safeguard measure shall provide the other Party 
with all pertinent information, as applicable;  
 
(c)  a Party proposing to apply a measure shall provide an opportunity for prior 
consultations  with  the  other  Party  as  far  in  advance  of  taking  any  such 
measure as practicable with a view to reviewing the information arising from 
the investigation, and exchanging views on the measure including preliminary 
views on compensation as set out in Article 3.12 (Compensation). 
 
2.  A Party shall apply a bilateral safeguard measure only following an investigation by 
its Competent Authorities in accordance with Article 3, Article 4.2(a) and Article 
4.2(c) of the Safeguards Agreement and to this end, Article 3, Article 4.2(a) and 
Article 4.2(c) of the Safeguards Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the 
extent not specifically provided for in this Agreement.  
 
3.  The  determination  referred  to  in  Article  3.9  (Application  of  Bilateral  Safeguard 
Measures) shall not be made unless the investigation demonstrates on the basis of 
objective evidence the existence of a causal link between increased imports from the 
other Party and serious injury or threat thereof. In this respect, due consideration shall 
be given to other factors, including imports of the same product from other countries. 
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  Competent  Authorities  complete  any  such 
investigation within one (1) year from the date of its initiation.  
 
5.  Neither Party may apply a bilateral safeguard measure as set out in paragraph 1 of 
Article 3.9 (Application of Bilateral Safeguard Measures):  
 
3-7 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
(a)  except to the extent, and for such time, as may be necessary to prevent or 
remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment;  
(b)  for a period exceeding two (2) years, except that the period may be extended 
up to an additional two (2) years (provided that the total period of application 
of a bilateral safeguard measure, including the period of initial application and 
any  extension  thereof,  shall  not  exceed  four  (4)  years),  if  the  Competent 
Authorities  of  the  importing  Party  determine,  in  conformity  with  the 
procedures  specified  in  this  Article,  that  the  bilateral  safeguard  measure 
continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate 
adjustment and that there is evidence that the industry is adjusting; or   
 
(c)  no measure shall be applied in the first year after the commencement of the 
tariff reduction or tariff elimination comes into force as negotiated under this 
Agreement. 
 
6.  No bilateral safeguard measure shall be applied again to the import of the same good 
during the transitional safeguard period, unless a period of time equal to half of the 
period  during  which  the  bilateral  safeguard  measure  was  applied  previously  has 
elapsed.  
 
7.  In  accordance  with  Article  3.7  (Application  of  Global  Safeguard  Measures),  no 
bilateral safeguard measure shall be taken against a good while a global safeguard 
measure in respect of that good is in place; in the event that a global safeguard 
measure is taken in respect of a good, any existing bilateral safeguard measure which 
is taken against that good shall be terminated. 
 
8.  Upon the termination of a bilateral safeguard measure, the rate of duty shall be the 
rate which would have been in effect, as per the reduction schedule, but for the action. 
 
9.  No bilateral safeguard measure shall be taken beyond the expiration of the transitional 
safeguard period. 
 
 
Article 3.11 
Provisional Measures 
 
1.  In critical circumstances where delay would cause damage that would be difficult to 
repair, a Party may apply a bilateral safeguard measure as per Article 3.9 (Application 
of  Bilateral  Safeguard  Measures)  of  this  Section  on  a  provisional  basis,  without 
complying with the procedural requirements on consultations as per sub-paragraph 
1(c)  of  Article  3.10  (Conditions  and  Limitations  on  the  Imposition  of  Bilateral 
Safeguard Measures)], pursuant to a preliminary determination that there is clear 
evidence that imports of an originating good from the other Party have increased as 
the result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, and 
such imports cause serious injury, or threat thereof, to the domestic industry. 
 
3-8 Chapter 3 – Trade Remedies 
2.  The duration of any provisional measure shall not exceed two hundred (200) days, 
during which time the Party shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Article 3.10 (Conditions and Limitations on the Imposition of Bilateral Safeguard 
Measures). The Party shall promptly refund any tariff increases if the investigation 
described  in  paragraph  2  of  Article  3.10  (Conditions  and  Limitations  on  the 
Imposition of Bilateral Safeguard Measures) does not result in a finding that the 
requirements of Article 3.9 (Application of Bilateral Safeguard Measures) are met. 
The  duration  of  any  provisional  measure  shall  be  counted  as  part  of  the  period 
prescribed by sub-paragraph 5(b) of Article 3.10 (Conditions and Limitations on the 
Imposition of Bilateral Safeguard Measures).  
 
3.  If a Party takes a provisional measure pursuant to this Article, the Party shall, as far as 
practicable, notify the other Party in writing prior to taking such measure and shall 
initiate consultations with the other Party immediately after such measure is taken.  
 
 
Article 3.12 
Compensation 
 
1.  A Party applying a bilateral safeguard measure shall consult with the other Party in 
order to mutually agree on appropriate trade liberalising compensation in the form of 
concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or equivalent to the value of 
the additional duties expected to result from the bilateral safeguard measure. The 
Party applying the measure shall provide an opportunity for such consultations no 
later than thirty (30) days after the application of the bilateral safeguard measure.  
 
2.  If the consultations under paragraph 1 of this Article do not result in an agreement on 
trade liberalising compensation within thirty (30) days after the consultations have 
begun, the Party whose goods are subject to the bilateral safeguard measure may 
suspend the application of substantially equivalent concessions on the goods of the 
Party applying the bilateral safeguard measure. The exporting Party shall notify the 
other Party in writing at least thirty (30) days before suspending concessions under 
this paragraph. 
3.  The suspension of concessions as set out in paragraph 2 of this Article shall not be 
applicable if the bilateral safeguard measure is applied for:  
 
(a)   not more than two (2) years; or  
 
(b)   not more than three (3) years in consultation with the other Party, provided 
that the Party imposing the bilateral safeguard measure provides to the other 
Party substantial evidence that the industry concerned is adjusting during the 
first two years; 
 
and provided that the bilateral safeguard measure conforms to the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
 
3-9 