Chapter 12 – Competition and Related Matters 
CHAPTER 12 
COMPETITION AND RELATED MATTERS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
1 Sri Lanka does not have legislation dealing comprehensively with competition policy. It is in the process of 
formulating legislation and every endeavour will be made to introduce such legislation within a reasonable time 
period.   
12-1 Chapter 12 – Competition and Related Matters 
Article 12.3 
Co-operation and Co-ordination in Law Enforcement 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of co-operation and co-ordination to further enhance 
effective law enforcement. Their respective authorities shall endeavour to co-ordinate and co-
operate in the enforcement of their respective laws to fulfil the objective of this Agreement of 
free and undistorted competition in their trade relations. 
 
 
Article 12.4 
Confidentiality 
 
1.  Each Party shall endeavour to provide information, in accordance with its laws and 
regulations, to facilitate effective enforcement of their respective competition laws. 
 
2.  When  a  Party  communicates  information  in  confidence  under  this  Chapter,  the 
receiving  Party  shall,  in  accordance  with  its  laws  and  regulations,  maintain  the 
confidentiality of the communicated information. 
 
 
Article 12.5 
Consultations 
 
1.  To foster mutual understanding between the Parties, or to address specific matters that 
may arise under this Chapter, each Party shall, upon the request of the other Party, enter 
into consultations on issues raised by the other Party. The Party requesting consultations 
shall indicate, if relevant, how the matter affects trade between the Parties. 
 
2.  The Parties shall promptly discuss, upon the request of a Party, any questions arising 
from the interpretation or application of this Chapter.  
 
3.  To facilitate discussion of the matter that is the subject of the consultations, each Party 
shall endeavour to provide relevant non-confidential information to the other Party. 
 
 
Article 12.6 
Non-Application of Dispute Settlement  
 
Neither Party  shall have recourse to  any dispute settlement  procedure in  respect  of the 
provisions under this Chapter.  Chapter 16 (Dispute Settlement) shall not apply to this Chapter.  
 
12-2 