Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
CHAPTER 4 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
Article 4.1 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to protect human, animal, or plant life or health in the 
territory of the Parties, and to provide a framework to address any bilateral sanitary and 
phytosanitary (“SPS”) matters so as to facilitate and increase trade between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 4.2 
Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to all SPS measures of a Party that may, directly or indirectly, 
affect trade between the Parties. 
 
2.  This  Chapter  shall  not  apply  to  standards,  technical  regulations  and  conformity 
assessment procedures as defined in the TBT Agreement which are covered by Chapter 
5 (Technical Barriers to Trade). 
 
3.  Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the rights or obligations of the Parties pursuant to 
the SPS Agreement.  
 
Article 4.3 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)   “SPS measure” means any measure referred to in paragraph 1, Annex A of the 
SPS Agreement; and 
 
(b)   The Parties may agree on other definitions for the application of this Chapter 
taking into consideration the glossaries and definitions of relevant international 
organisations,  such  as  the  CODEX  Alimentarius  Commission  (“Codex 
Alimentarius”), the World Organisation for Animal Health (“OIE”) and under 
the International Plant Protection Convention (“IPPC”).  
 
 
Article 4.4 
Rights and Obligations 
 
The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other under the SPS 
Agreement. 
 
 
4-1 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
Article 4.5 
General Principles 
 
When implementing this Chapter, each Party: 
 
(a)  shall not apply its SPS measure in a manner which would constitute a means of 
arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  or  a  disguised  restriction  on 
international trade;  
 
(b)  shall ensure that any SPS measure is applied only to the extent necessary to 
protect human, animal or plant life or health, is based on scientific principles 
and is not maintained without sufficient scientific evidence; and  
 
(c)  will neither use the procedures established under this Chapter nor any requests 
for  additional  information,  to  delay,  without  scientific  and  technical 
justification, access to its market. 
 
 
Article 4.6  
Competent Authorities  
 
1.  The competent authorities of the Parties responsible for the implementation of this 
Chapter are set out in this Article. The Parties shall notify each other of any change in 
their respective competent authorities.  
 
2.  The competent authority for: 
 
(a)  Sri Lanka shall be:  
 
Director General of Agriculture 
Department of Agriculture 
Peradeniya 
Sri Lanka  
Fax: (0094) 812 388333 
Phone: (0094) 812 388331 
Email: dgagriculture@gmail.com 
 
Director General Department of Animal Production and Health 
Sri Lanka Animal Quarantine and Inspection Services 
P.O. Box 13 
Peradeniya 
Sri Lanka 
Fax: (0094) 112 448683 
Phone: (0094) 812 388195 ; (0094) 112448683 
Email: dgdaph@sltnet.lk ; caqocolombo@sltnet.lk 
 
Director General of Health Services 
4-2 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
Chief Food Authority 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition, and Indigenous Medicine 
“Suwasiripaya” No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha 
Colombo – 10 Sri Lanka 
Phone: (0094) 112 694860 
Email: dghs@health.gov.lk 
 
Director General of Sri Lanka Standards Institution 
No. 17, Victoria Place, Elvitigala Mawatha 
Colombo 08, Sri Lanka 
Phone: (0094) 112 671567 
Email: dg@slsi.lk 
 
(b)  Singapore shall be: 
 
Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority of Singapore or its successor 
Address: 52 Jurong Gateway Road #14-00, Singapore 608550 
Fax: (65) 63341381 
Email: WTO_Contact@ava.gov.sg 
Web: www.ava.gov.sg 
 
 
Article 4.7 
Trade Facilitation 
 
The Parties shall co-operate and jointly identify work in the field of SPS measures with a view 
to  facilitating  trade  between  the  Parties.  In  particular,  the  Parties  shall  seek  to  identify 
initiatives that are appropriate for particular issues or sectors.  
 
 
Article 4.8 
Transparency 
 
1.  The Parties reaffirm their transparency obligations under the SPS Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall publish all SPS measures in force on a website. Where possible, and 
upon request, the Parties shall provide information regarding the measures in English. 
 
3.  In any event, each Party shall electronically notify to the other Party’s Contact Point or 
Enquiry Point its proposed SPS measures notifications to the WTO, at the same time 
the Party submits such notifications to the WTO Secretariat in accordance with the SPS 
Agreement. 
 
4.  Unless urgent problems of human, animal or plant life or health protection arise or 
threaten to arise, or the measure is of a trade-facilitating nature, a Party shall normally 
allow a period of at least sixty (60) days for the other Party to provide comments on the 
proposed measure after it makes a notification under paragraph 3 of this Article. 
4-3 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
5.  Upon request of a Party, the other Party shall communicate the import requirements 
that apply for the import of specific products wıthın fıfteen (15) days.  
 
6.  Each Party shall notify in writing to the other Party within two (2) days, of any serious 
or  significant  human,  animal  or  plant  life  or  health  risk,  including  any  food 
emergencies, that have arısen wıthın that Party. 
 
7.  Where a Party has serious concerns regarding any risk to human, animal or plant life or 
health, affecting commodities for which trade takes place between the Parties, technical 
discussions regarding the situation shall, upon request, take place as soon as possible. 
In this case, each Party shall endeavour to provide in due time all necessary information 
to avoid any disruptions to trade.  
 
 
Article 4.9 
Emergency Measures 
 
1.  In case of serious human, animal or plant life or health risk, the importing Party may 
take, without previous notification, measures necessary to protect human, animal or 
plant life or health. For consignments in transport between the Parties, the importing 
Party shall consider the most suitable and proportional solution in order to avoid 
unnecessary disruptions to trade. 
 
2.  The Party taking the measures shall inform the other Party as soon as possible and in 
any case no later than twenty-four (24) hours after the adoption of the measure.  
 
3.  Upon request of either Party and in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3, 5 
and 6 of Article 4.8 (Transparency), the Parties shall hold consultations regarding the 
situation within fifteen (15) days of the notification. These consultations shall be carried 
out in order to avoid unnecessary disruptions to trade. The Parties may consider options 
for the facilitation of the implementation or the replacement of the measures. 
 
4.  Either Party may request for any information related to the SPS situation and any 
measures adopted. The other Party shall answer as soon as the requested information is 
available.  
 
 
Article 4.10 
Equivalence 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that the principle of equivalence, as set out in Article 4 of the SPS 
Agreement, has mutual benefits for both exporting and importing countries. 
 
2.  The importing Party shall accept the SPS measures of the exporting Party as equivalent 
if the exporting Party objectively demonstrates that its measures achieve the importing 
Party’s appropriate level of SPS protection. To facilitate a determination of equivalence, 
4-4 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
a Party shall, upon request, advise the other Party of the objective of any relevant SPS 
measures. A determination of equivalence may be made in relation to a single measure, 
group of measures or on a systems-wide basis. 
 
3.  The determination of equivalence requires an objective, risk-based assessment or 
evaluation by the importing Party of the existing, revised or proposed measures. The 
legislative and administrative systems, other factors such as the performance of the 
relevant competent authorities and any other necessary assessments or tests may be 
considered. 
 
4.  In determining the equivalence of SPS measures, the Parties shall take into account 
guidance developed by the WTO SPS Committee and the Codex Alimentarius, the OIE 
and the IPPC, as amended from time to time. 
 
5.  Upon  request  of  the  exporting  Party  for  an  equivalence  assessment,  and  upon 
submission of sufficient information, the importing Party shall assess the exporting 
Party’s measures to determine if the measures are able to meet the importing Party’s 
appropriate level of SPS protection. 
 
6.  The Parties shall give favourable consideration to accepting the equivalence of each 
other’s SPS measures, in order to ease trade of the products subject to SPS measures 
and foster mutual confidence between the respective competent authorities. 
 
7.  Any agreement or arrangement on acceptance of equivalence of the exporting party’s 
SPS measures which may be concluded between the Parties shall be annexed to this 
Agreement and shall apply to trade between them. 
 
8.  Compliance by an exported product with an SPS standard that has been accepted as 
equivalent to an SPS standard of the importing Party shall not remove the need for that 
product to comply with any other relevant mandatory requirements of the importing 
Party. 
 
9.  Whenever an agreement on recognition of the equivalence is in process of negotiation 
and no final approval is achieved, the Parties should neither stop nor apply SPS 
measures more restrictive than those in force in their mutual trade, except where SPS 
emergencies arise or threaten to arise for a Party. 
 
 
Article 4.11 
Import Requirements 
 
1.  The importing Party shall ensure that its import conditions are applied to products 
imported from the exporting Party in a non-discriminatory manner and are based on an 
assessment of the risks to human, animal, or plant life. 
 
4-5 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
2.  Any fees imposed for the procedures on products imported from the exporting Party 
shall be equitable in relation to any fees charged on like domestic products and should 
be no higher than the actual cost of the service. 
  
3.  The importing Party shall have the right to carry out import checks on products 
imported from the exporting Party for the purposes of implementing SPS measures.   
 
4.  The import checks carried out on products imported from the exporting Party shall be 
based on the SPS risk associated with such importation. They shall be carried out 
without undue delay and with a minimum effect on trade between the Parties. 
 
5.  The information on the frequencies of import checks carried out on products imported 
from the exporting Party shall be made available upon request. The importing Party 
may  amend  the  frequencies  of  physical  checks  within  their  responsibilities,  as 
appropriate, as a result of: 
 
(a)   on-site checks; 
 
(b)   import checks; or 
 
(c)   other actions or consultations provided for in this Chapter. 
 
6.  In the event that the import checks reveal non-conformity with the relevant standards 
and/or requirements of the importing Party, any action taken by the importing Party 
should be proportionate to the SPS risk involved.  
 
 
Article 4.12 
Co-ordinators 
 
1.  To facilitate the implementation of this Chapter and co-operation between the Parties, 
each Party shall designate a Co-ordinator, who shall be responsible for co-ordinating 
with competent authorities in the Party’s territory and communicating with the other 
Party’s Co-ordinator on all matters pertaining to this Chapter.  
 
2.  The Co-ordinators’ functions shall include: 
 
(a)  enhancing  communication  between  the  Parties’  competent  authorities, 
including by seeking to facilitate a Party’s response to written requests for 
information from the other Party in print or electronically without undue delay, 
and in any case within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the request 
and at no cost or at reasonable cost; 
 
(b)  facilitating information exchange so as to enhance mutual understanding of each 
Party’s SPS measures and the regulatory processes that relate to those measures 
and their impact on trade in such goods between the Parties; 
 
4-6 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
(c)  promptly addressing any bilateral SPS issues that a Party raises to enhance 
cooperation and consultation between the Parties to facilitate trade between the 
Parties; and   
 
(d)  simultaneously informing the contact points set out in Article 17.16 (Contact 
Points) of Chapter 17 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions) of any 
communication between the Parties. 
 
3.  The Co-ordinators may communicate through teleconference, videoconference, or any 
other means, as mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
4.  Each Party shall notify the other Party promptly of any change in their Co-ordinators 
or any amendment to the details of relevant officials. 
 
4.  For the purposes of this Article, the Co-ordinator for: 
 
(a)  Sri Lanka shall be:  
   
Department of Commerce  
4th Floor, 
Rakshana Mandiraya 
21, Vauxhall Street 
Colombo 02, Sri Lanka 
Email: fortrade@doc.gov.lk ; spssrilanka@doc.gov.lk 
 
or its successor. 
 
(b)  Singapore shall be: 
 
Ministry of Trade and Industry, 
Trade Division, 
100 High Street # 09-01, The Treasury, 
Singapore 179434 
Tel: (65) 6225 9911 
Fax: (65) 6332 7260 
Email: mti_email@mti.gov.sg 
 
or its successor. 
 
 
Article 4.13 
Joint Sub-Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary (“SPS”) Measures and Technical 
Barriers to Trade (“TBT”) 
1.  The Parties hereby establish the Joint Sub-Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures  and  Technical  Barriers  to  Trade  (“Joint  Sub-Committee”),  comprising 
4-7 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
representatives from the relevant authorities of each Party. The Joint Sub-Committee 
shall be co-ordinated by the co-ordinators from both Parties specified in this Chapter. 
 
2.  The functions of this Joint Sub-Committee may include the following: 
 
(a)  reviewing the functioning of and work done by the Co-ordinators of the SPS 
and TBT Chapters; 
 
(b)  strengthening technical co-operation and communication on SPS and TBT 
issues to enhance the relationship between the Parties; 
 
(c)  consulting on agendas, issues, and positions for meetings covering SPS and/or 
TBT issues in relevant WTO Committees and International Organisations; 
 
(d)  arranging the establishment of ad hoc working groups as mutually agreed by 
the Parties; 
 
(e)  monitoring the progress of work programmes and the implementation of Article 
4.14 (Cooperation) and Article 4.16 (Sectoral Annexes); and 
 
(f)  other functions mutually agreed by the Parties. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure the participation of its representatives with responsibility for 
the items in the agenda for each meeting of the Joint Sub-Committee. Upon mutual 
agreement, the Parties may invite representatives from industry, business associations 
or other relevant organisations to participate in parts of the meetings of the Joint Sub-
Committee on a case by case basis. 
 
4.  The Joint Sub-Committee shall meet at least once every two (2) years unless the Parties 
agree  otherwise.  Meetings  may  be  conducted  in  person,  by  teleconference,  by 
videoconference, or any other means as mutually agreed by the Parties. The Parties may 
avail themselves of the opportunity to meet in conjunction with other FTA related 
meetings or in the margins of international meetings, where possible. 
 
5.  The  Parties  shall  inform  each  other  of  any  significant  changes  in  the  structure, 
organisation and division of responsibility within its competent authorities or co-
ordinators. 
 
 
 Article 4.14 
Co-operation 
 
1.  The Parties may enter into mutual recognition arrangements (“MRAs”) to strengthen 
their co-operation in the field of SPS measures with a view to increasing the mutual 
understanding of their respective systems and facilitating access to their respective 
markets. 
 
4-8 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
2.  The  Parties  shall  endeavour  to  develop  a  work  programme  and  mechanisms  for 
cooperative activities in the areas of technical assistance and capacity building to 
address plant, animal and public health and food safety issues of mutual interest. In 
particular, the Parties shall consider, inter alia,  the following activities: 
 
(a)  conducting training workshops,  
(b)  conducting studies and symposiums, and 
(c)  exchanging of officials and experts 
 
3.  The financial arrangements to cover expenses for the cooperative activities undertaken 
shall be mutually agreed upon by the Parties on a case by case basis subject to the 
availability of funds. 
 
 
Article 4.15 
Certification 
 
1.  Each  consignment  of  animals,  animal  products,  animal  by-products,  plants,  plant 
products or other related goods shall be accompanied with the relevant official SPS 
certificates, if necessary, that are based on international standards-setting bodies as 
defined by the WTO SPS Agreement.  
 
2.  Additional certifications and declarations shall be provided by the relevant competent 
authorities whenever required by the importing Party. 
 
 
Article 4.16 
Sectoral Annexes 
 
1.  The Parties may conclude as appropriate, Sectoral Annexes, including MRAs, on 
product sectors which shall provide the implementing arrangements for such sectors. 
 
2.  A Sectoral Annex on the import requirements of specified food products is attached to 
this Agreement as Annex 4-A (Sectoral Annex on Food Products). 
 
3.  A Sectoral Annex shall minimally include: 
 
(a)  provisions on scope and coverage; and 
 
(b)  applicable  laws,  regulations  and  administrative  provisions  i.e.  mandatory 
requirements of each Party concerning the scope and coverage. 
 
4.  The Parties shall: 
 
(a)  specify  and  communicate  to  each  other  the  applicable  articles  or  annexes 
contained in the mandatory requirements set out in the Sectoral Annexes; 
 
4-9 Chapter 4 – Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
(b)  exchange  information  concerning  the  implementation  of  the  mandatory 
requirements specified in the Sectoral Annexes; and 
 
(c)  notify  each  other  of  any  scheduled  changes  in  their  respective  mandatory 
requirements as and when they are made. 
 
5.  Unless otherwise provided for, a Sectoral Annex concluded pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
this Article shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date 
on  which  the  Parties  have  exchanged  notes  confirming  the  completion  of  their 
respective procedures for the entry into force of that Sectoral Annex. 
 
6.  A Party may terminate an MRA in its entirety by giving the other Party one (1) year’s 
advance notice in writing unless otherwise stated in the relevant Sectoral Annex. 
However, a Party shall continue to accept the results of conformity assessment or 
equivalence for the duration of the notice period. 
 
7.  Where urgent problems of safety, health, consumer or environment protection or 
national security arise or threaten to arise for a Party, that Party may suspend the 
operation of any Sectoral Annex, in whole or in part, immediately. In such a case, the 
Party shall immediately advise the other Party of the nature of the urgent problem, the 
products covered and the objective and rationale of the suspension. 
 
Article 4.17 
Final Provisions 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the authority of a Party to determine the level of protection 
it considers necessary for the protection of, inter alia, human health or safety, animal or plant 
life or health or the environment. In pursuance of this, each Party retains all authority to 
interpret its laws, regulations and administrative provisions. 
4-10 