Chapter 14 – Transparency 
CHAPTER 14 
TRANSPARENCY 
 
Article 14.1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  “administrative ruling of general application” means an administrative ruling or 
interpretation that applies to all persons and fact situations that fall generally within 
its ambit and that establishes a norm of conduct but does not include:  
 
(i)  a  determination  or  ruling  made  in  an  administrative  or  quasi-judicial 
proceeding that applies to a particular person, good, or service of the other 
Party in a specific case; or  
 
(ii)  a ruling that adjudicates with respect to a particular act or practice. 
 
(b)  “interested  person”  means  any  person  that  may  be  subject  to  any  rights  or 
obligations under measures of general application. 
 
 
Article 14.2 
Publication  
  
Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  laws,  regulations  and  administrative  rulings  of  general 
application  respecting any matter covered by this  Agreement are promptly published or 
otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable the other Party and interested persons 
to become acquainted with them. 
 
 
Article 14.3 
Notification and Provision of Information 
 
1.   To the maximum extent possible, each Party shall notify the other Party of any 
measure  that,  the  Party  considers,  may  materially  affect  the  operation  of  this 
Agreement  or  otherwise  substantially  affect  the  other  Party's  interests  under  this 
Agreement. 
 
2.   Upon request of a Party, the other Party shall promptly provide information and 
respond to questions pertaining to any measure whether or not the requesting Party 
has been previously notified of that measure. 
 
3.   Any notification, or information provided under this Article shall be without prejudice 
as to whether the measure is consistent with this Agreement. 
 
 
14-1 Chapter 14 – Transparency 
4.   Any notification, request, or information under this Article shall be provided to the 
other Party through the relevant contact points. 
 
5.   When the information pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article has been made available by 
notification to the WTO in accordance with its relevant rules and procedures or when the 
mentioned  information  has  been  made  available  by  a  Party  on  its  official,  publicly 
accessible and fee-free website, the information exchange shall be considered to have 
taken place. 
 
 
Article 14.4 
Administrative Proceedings 
 
With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial and reasonable manner all measures 
referred to in Article 14.2 (Publication), each Party in applying such measures to particular 
persons, goods or services of the other Party in specific cases, shall: 
 
(a)  endeavour to provide interested persons of the other Party, who are directly 
affected  by  a  proceeding,  with  reasonable  notice,  in  accordance  with  the 
procedures  under  its  laws,  when  a  proceeding  is  initiated,  including  a 
description of the nature of the proceeding, a statement of the legal authority 
under which the proceeding is initiated and a general description of any issues 
in controversy; and 
 
(b)  afford such interested persons a reasonable opportunity to present facts and 
arguments in support of their positions prior to any final administrative action, 
insofar as time, the nature of the proceeding and the public interest permit in 
accordance with the procedures under its laws. 
 
 
Article 14.5 
Review of Administrative Actions 
 
1.  Each Party shall, subject to its laws, establish or maintain judicial, quasi-judicial or 
administrative tribunals or procedures for the purposes of the prompt review and, 
where warranted, correction of administrative actions1 relating to matters covered by 
this Agreement. Such tribunals shall be impartial and independent of the office or 
authority entrusted with administrative enforcement and shall not have any substantial 
interest in the outcome of the matter. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
1 For greater certainty, the review of administrative actions can take the form of common law judicial review, 
and the correction of administrative actions may include a referral back to the body that took such action for 
corrective action. 
14-2 Chapter 14 – Transparency 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or procedures, the parties to the 
proceeding are provided with the right to: 
 
(a)  a reasonable opportunity to support or defend their respective positions; and 
 
(b)  a decision based on the evidence and submissions of record or, where required 
by its laws, the record compiled by the administrative authority. 
 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further review as provided for in its laws, 
that such decision shall be implemented by, and shall govern the practice of, the office 
or authority with respect to the administrative action at issue.  
 
 
Article 14.6 
Specific Rules 
 
Specific  rules  in  other  Chapters  of  this  Agreement  regarding  the  subject  matter  of  this 
Chapter shall prevail to the extent that they differ from the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
14-3 