 
ANNEX 9-F 
 
 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES AND WORKS CONCESSIONS 
 
 
PART 1 
 
SINGAPORE'S COMMITMENTS 
 
Chapter Nine (Puplic Procurement) covers the procurement by the entities covered by Annexes 9-A 
to 9-C of the following construction services in the sense of Division 51 of the Central Product 
Classification as contained in document MTN.GNS/W/120: 
 
List of construction services committed: 
 
CPC  Description 
512  General construction work for buildings 
513  General construction work for civil engineering 
514, 516  Installation and assembly work 
517  Building completion and finishing work 
511, 515, 518  Others 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 1  
Notes to Part 1 of Annex 9-F: 
 
1.  The committed construction services are subject to the limitations and conditions specified 
in Annex 8-B and the Appendices thereto. 
 
2.  Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) does not apply to any procurement made by a 
covered entity on behalf of a non-covered entity. 
 
 
PART 2 
 
UNION'S COMMITMENTS 
 
 
A.  Construction services 
 
Chapter Nine (Public Procurement) covers all construction services listed in Division 51 of CPC 
procured by the entities specified in Annexes 9-A to 9-C. 
 
 
B.  Works concessions 
 
Work concessions contracts, when awarded by entities specified in Annexes 9-A and 9-B are 
included under the national treatment regime, provided the value of the work concession contracts 
equals or exceeds 5 000 000 SDR. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 2  
Notes to Part 2 of Annex 9-F: 
 
1.  When awarding work concessions contracts, the Union's procuring entities listed in 
Annexes 9-A and 9-B shall accord services and suppliers of Singapore, including locally 
established suppliers of Singapore, treatment no less favourable than treatment they accord 
to domestic services and suppliers under the Union's domestic regime for works concessions, 
(herein referred to as "national treatment regime"), provided the value of such contracts 
equals or exceeds 5 000 000 SDR. 
 
Under the national treatment regime, the Union, including its Member States and its 
procuring entities, shall: 
 
(a)  ensure transparency in the award of works concessions contracts, including by the 
publication of notice of intended work concessions; and 
 
(b)  ensure that there is an effective review procedure through which supplier, including 
suppliers from the other Party may challenge decisions relating to the award of work 
concessions contracts. 
 
2.  Should the revision of Union's legislation on public procurement result in a further 
clarification or development of rules applicable to works concessions, the Union will, at the 
request of Singapore, review the possibility to reflect these developments in this Annex. 
Following such review the Parties may, by decision of the Committee on Trade in Services, 
Investment and Government Procurement, adapt the provisions applicable to works 
concessions in Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) or in their commitments set out in 
this Annex. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 3  
List of Division 51, CPC 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 4  
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 5  
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 6  
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 7  
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-F - 8 