ANNEX 14-B 
 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ARBITRATORS AND MEDIATORS 
 
Definitions 
 
1.  In this Code of Conduct: 
 
–  "arbitrator" means a member of an arbitration panel established under 
Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel); 
 
–  "candidate" means an individual whose name is on the list of arbitrators 
referred to in Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators) and who is under consideration 
for selection as an arbitrator under Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration 
Panel); 
 
–  "assistant" means a person who, under the terms of appointment of an 
arbitrator, conducts research or provides assistance to the arbitrator; 
 
–  "proceeding", unless otherwise specified, means an arbitration panel proceeding 
under Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement); 
 
–  "staff", in respect of an arbitrator, means persons under the direction and 
control of the arbitrator, other than assistants. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-B - 1 
 Responsibilities to the process 
 
2.  Throughout the proceedings, every candidate and arbitrator shall avoid impropriety 
and the appearance of impropriety, shall be independent and impartial, shall avoid 
direct and indirect conflicts of interests, and shall observe high standards of conduct, 
so that the integrity and impartiality of the dispute settlement mechanism is 
preserved. Arbitrators shall not take instructions from any organisation or government 
with regard to matters before a Panel. Former arbitrators shall comply with the 
obligations laid down in paragraphs 15, 16, 17 and 18 of this Code of Conduct. 
 
Disclosure obligations 
 
3.  Prior to confirmation of his or her selection as an arbitrator under Chapter Fourteen 
(Dispute Settlement), a candidate shall disclose any interest, relationship or matter 
that is likely to affect his or her independence or impartiality, or that might reasonably 
create an appearance of impropriety or bias in the proceeding. To this end, a 
candidate shall make all reasonable efforts to become aware of any such interests, 
relationships and matters. 
 
4.  A candidate or arbitrator shall only communicate matters concerning actual or 
potential violations of this Code of Conduct to the Trade Committee, for consideration 
by the Parties. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-B - 2 
 5.  Once selected, an arbitrator shall continue to make all reasonable efforts to become 
aware of any interests, relationships or matters referred to in paragraph 3 of this Code 
of Conduct and shall disclose them. The disclosure obligation is a continuing duty 
which requires an arbitrator to disclose any such interests, relationships or matters 
that may arise during any stage of the proceeding, at the earliest time the arbitrator 
becomes aware of it. The arbitrator shall disclose such interests, relationships and 
matters by informing the Trade Committee in writing, for consideration by the Parties. 
 
Duties of arbitrators 
 
6.  Upon selection, an arbitrator shall perform his or her duties thoroughly and 
expeditiously throughout the course of the proceeding, and with fairness and 
diligence. 
 
7.  An arbitrator shall consider only those issues that are raised in the proceeding and 
that are necessary for a ruling, and shall not delegate this duty to any other person. 
 
8.  An arbitrator shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that his or her assistants and 
staff are aware of, and comply with, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17 and 18 of this Code of 
Conduct. 
 
9.  An arbitrator shall not engage in ex parte contacts concerning the proceeding. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-B - 3 
 Independence and impartiality of arbitrators 
 
10.  An arbitrator shall be independent and impartial, must avoid creating an appearance 
of impropriety or bias, and shall not be influenced by self-interest, outside pressure, 
political considerations, public clamour, and loyalty to a Party, or fear of criticism. 
 
11.  An arbitrator shall not directly or indirectly incur any obligation or accept any benefit 
that would in any way interfere, or appear to interfere, with the proper performance 
of her or his duties. 
 
12.  An arbitrator may not use her or his position on the arbitration panel to advance any 
personal or private interests, and shall avoid actions that may create the impression 
that others are in a special position to influence her or him. 
 
13.  An arbitrator may not allow financial, business, professional, family or social 
relationships or responsibilities to influence her or his conduct or judgement. 
 
14.  An arbitrator shall avoid entering into any relationship, or acquiring any financial 
interest, that is likely to affect her or his impartiality, or that might reasonably create 
an appearance of impropriety or bias. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-B - 4 
 Obligations of former arbitrators 
 
15.  All former arbitrators must avoid actions that may create the appearance that they 
were biased in carrying out their duties or that they derived any advantage from the 
decision or ruling of the arbitration panel. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
16.  No arbitrator or former arbitrator shall at any time disclose or use any non-public 
information concerning a proceeding or acquired during a proceeding except for the 
purposes of that proceeding, and, in particular, shall not disclose or use any such 
information for personal advantage or an advantage for others or to affect the 
interest of others. 
 
17.  An arbitrator shall not disclose an arbitration panel ruling or parts thereof prior to its 
publication in accordance with Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement). 
 
18.  An arbitrator or former arbitrator shall not at any time disclose the deliberations of an 
arbitration panel, or any arbitrator's view regarding the deliberations. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-B - 5 
 Expenses 
 
19.  Each arbitrator shall keep a record and render a final account of the time devoted to 
the proceedings and of his or her expenses, as well as the time and expenses of his or 
her assistants. 
 
Mediators 
 
20.  The disciplines described in this Code of Conduct applying to arbitrators or former 
arbitrators shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to mediators. 
 
 
________________ 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-B - 6 
 