 
EUSFTA Annex 5-B  - 1 
 
ANNEX 5-B 
 
 
REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS FOR APPROVAL  
OF ESTABLISHMENTS FOR PRODUCTS OF ANIMAL ORIGIN 
 
1. 
The competent authorities of the importing Party shall draw up lists of approved 
establishments and shall make these lists publicly available. 
 
2. 
The requirements and procedures for the approval of establishments by the importing Party 
are as follows: 
 
(a) 
The animal product which the establishment intends to export to the importing Party 
shall have been authorised by the competent authorities of the importing Party. This 
authorisation shall include the import and certification requirements. 
 
(b) 
The competent authorities of the exporting Party shall have approved the 
establishments that intend to export the animal product concerned, and shall have 
provided the importing Party with the sanitary guarantees required by the importing 
Party that the establishments meet the relevant requirements of the importing Party. 
 
(c) 
The competent authorities of the exporting Party shall have the power to suspend or 
withdraw the export approval of an establishment in the event of non-compliance. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 5-B  - 2 
 
(d) 
The importing Party may carry out verifications in accordance with Article 5.8 
(Verifications) as part of the approval procedure. 
 
Verifications as part of the approval procedure shall concern the structure, 
organisation and powers of the competent authority responsible for the approval of 
the establishment, and the sanitary guarantees regarding the compliance with the 
importing Party's requirements. 
 
Verifications may include on-the-spot inspections of a certain number of 
representative establishments that appear on the lists of approved establishments 
provided by the exporting Party. 
 
Taking into account the specific structure and responsibilities within the Union, such 
verification in the Union may concern individual Member States. 
 
(e) 
The importing Party may carry out verifications in accordance with Article 5.8 
(Verification) at any time. Based on the results of such verifications, the importing 
Party may amend the lists of approved establishments which the importing Party had 
drawn up under paragraph 1 of this Annex. 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 5-B  - 3 
 
3. 
The provisions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall initially be limited to the following categories of 
establishments: 
 
(a) 
all establishments for fresh meat of domestic species; 
 
(b) 
all establishments for fresh meat of wild and farmed game; 
 
(c) 
all establishments for poultry meat; 
 
(d) 
all establishments for meat products of all species; 
 
(e) 
all establishments for other products of animal origin for human consumption (e.g., 
casings, meat preparations, minced meat); 
 
(f) 
all establishments for milk and milk products for human consumption; and 
 
(g) 
processing establishments and factory/freezer vessels for fishery products for human 
consumption, including bivalve molluscs and crustaceans. 
 
 
________________ 
 
 
