ANNEX 14-A 
 
 
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR ARBITRATION 
 
General provisions 
 
1.  In Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement) and under this Annex: 
 
–  "adviser" means a person retained by a Party to advise or assist that Party in 
connection with the arbitration panel proceeding; 
 
–  "arbitrator" means a member of an arbitration panel established under 
Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel); 
 
–  "assistant" means a person who, under the terms of appointment of an 
arbitrator, conducts research or provides assistance to the arbitrator; 
 
–  "complaining Party" means any Party that requests the establishment of an 
arbitration panel under Article 14.4 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure); 
 
–  "Party complained against" means the Party that is alleged to be in violation of 
the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 (Scope); 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 1 
 –  "arbitration panel" means a panel established under Article 14.5 (Establishment 
of the Arbitration Panel); 
 
–  "representative of a Party" means an employee or any person who has been 
appointed by a government department, government agency, or any other 
public entity of a Party to represent that Party for the purposes of a dispute 
under this Agreement. 
 
2.  This Annex applies to dispute settlement proceedings under Chapter Fourteen 
(Dispute Settlement) unless the Parties agree otherwise. 
 
3.  The Party complained against shall be in charge of the logistical administration of 
dispute settlement proceedings, in particular the organisation of hearings, unless 
otherwise agreed. The Parties shall share equally the expenses resulting from 
organisational matters, including the expenses of the arbitrators. 
 
Notifications 
 
4.  The Parties and the arbitration panel shall transmit any request, notice, written 
submission or other document by e-mail, with a copy submitted on the same day by 
facsimile transmission, registered post, courier, delivery against receipt or any other 
means of telecommunication that provides a record of the sending thereof. Unless 
proven otherwise, an e-mail message shall be deemed to be received on the date of 
its sending. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 2 
 5.  A Party shall provide an electronic copy of each of its written submissions and 
rebuttals to each of the arbitrators and to the other Party simultaneously. A paper 
copy of the document shall also be provided. 
 
6.  All notifications shall be addressed to the Director-General, Directorate-General for 
Trade of the European Commission and to the Director, North America and Europe 
Division, Singapore Ministry of Trade and Industry, respectively. 
 
7.  Minor errors of a clerical nature in any request, notice, written submission or other 
document related to the arbitration panel proceeding may be corrected by delivery of 
a new document clearly indicating the changes, unless the other Party objects. 
 
8.  If the last day for delivery of a document falls on an official legal holiday of Singapore 
or of the Union, the document shall be delivered on the next business day. 
 
9.  Depending on the object of the provisions under dispute, all requests and notifications 
addressed to the Trade Committee in accordance with Chapter Fourteen (Dispute 
Settlement) shall also be copied to the other relevant specialised committees 
established under the Agreement. 
 
Commencing the arbitration 
 
10.  (a)  If pursuant to Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) or to Rules 22, 
24 or 51 of this Annex, arbitrators are selected by lot, representatives of both 
Parties are entitled to be present when the lots are drawn. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 3 
 (b)  Unless the Parties agree otherwise, they shall meet with the arbitration panel 
within seven days of its establishment in order to determine such matters as the 
Parties or the arbitration panel deems appropriate, including the remuneration 
and expenses to be paid to the arbitrators. Arbitrators and representatives of 
the Parties may take part in such meetings via telephone or video conference. 
 
11.  (a)  Unless the Parties agree otherwise within seven days from the date of 
establishment of the arbitration panel, the terms of reference of the arbitration 
panel shall be: 
 
"to examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the Agreement, the matter 
referred to in the request for establishment of the arbitration panel made 
pursuant to Article 14.4; to rule on the compatibility of the measure in question 
with the provisions referred to in Article 14.2 by making findings of law and/or 
fact, together with the reasons thereof; and to issue a ruling in accordance with 
Articles 14.7 and 14.8." 
 
(b)  Where the Parties have agreed on the terms of reference of the arbitration 
panel, they shall notify such agreement to the arbitration panel forthwith. 
 
Initial submissions 
 
12.  The complaining Party shall deliver its initial written submission no later than 20 days 
after the date of the establishment of the arbitration panel. The Party complained 
against shall deliver its written counter-submission no later than 20 days after the 
date of the delivery of the initial written submission. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 4 
 Working of arbitration panels 
 
13.  The chairperson of the arbitration panel shall preside at all its meetings. An arbitration 
panel may delegate authority to the chairperson to make administrative and 
procedural decisions. 
 
14.  Unless otherwise provided in Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement), the arbitration 
panel may conduct its activities by any means of communication, including by 
telephone, facsimile transmissions or computer links. 
 
15.  Only arbitrators may take part in the deliberations of the arbitration panel, but the 
arbitration panel may permit assistants to be present at its deliberations. 
 
16.  The drafting of any ruling shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the arbitration 
panel, and shall not be delegated. 
 
17.  Where a procedural question arises that is not covered by Chapter Fourteen (Dispute 
Settlement) and its Annexes, the arbitration panel, after consulting the Parties, may 
adopt an appropriate procedure that is compatible with those provisions. 
 
18.  When the arbitration panel considers that there is a need to modify any time limit 
applicable to the proceedings or to make any other procedural or administrative 
adjustment, it shall inform the Parties in writing of the reasons for the change or 
adjustment and of the period or adjustment needed. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 5 
 Replacement 
 
19.  If an arbitrator is unable to participate in the proceeding, withdraws, or must be 
replaced, a replacement shall be selected in accordance with Article 14.5 
(Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
 
20.  Where a Party considers that an arbitrator should be replaced because he or she does 
not comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct under Annex 14-B 
(hereinafter referred to as "Code of Conduct"), that Party should notify the other Party 
within 15 days from the time at which it came to know of the circumstances 
underlying the arbitrator’s non-compliance with the Code of Conduct. 
 
21.  Where a Party considers that an arbitrator other than the chairperson does not 
comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, the Parties shall consult and, if 
they so agree, replace the arbitrator and select a replacement following the procedure 
set out in Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
 
22.  If the Parties fail to agree on the need to replace an arbitrator, any Party may request 
that such matter be referred to the chairperson of the arbitration panel, whose 
decision shall be final. 
 
If, pursuant to such a request, the chairperson finds that an arbitrator did not comply 
with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, a new arbitrator shall be selected. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 6 
 The Party which had selected the arbitrator who needs to be replaced shall select one 
arbitrator from among the remaining relevant individuals on the list established under 
paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators). If the Party fails to select an 
arbitrator within five days of the finding of the chairperson of the arbitration panel, 
the chair of the Trade Committee or the chair’s delegate shall select an arbitrator by 
lot from the remaining relevant individuals on the list established under paragraph 2 
of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators) within ten days of the finding of the chairperson 
of the arbitration panel. 
 
Should the list provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators) not be 
established at the time required pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 14.5 
(Establishment of the Arbitration Panel), the Party which had selected the arbitrator 
who needs to be replaced or, if that Party fails, the chairperson of the Trade 
Committee or the chairperson's delegate, shall select an arbitrator within five days of 
the finding of the chairperson of the arbitration panel where: 
 
(a)  the Party had failed to propose individuals, from among the remaining 
individuals proposed by the other Party pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 
(Lists of Arbitrators); or 
 
(b)  the Parties had failed to agree on a list of names pursuant to Article paragraph 2 
of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators), from among the individuals the Party had 
proposed pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators). 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 7 
 23.  Where a Party considers that the chairperson of the arbitration panel does not 
comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, the Parties shall consult and, 
if they so agree, replace the chairperson and select a replacement following the 
procedure set out in Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
 
24.  If the Parties fail to agree on the need to replace the chairperson of the arbitration 
panel, any Party may request that such matter be referred to a neutral third party. If 
the Parties are unable to agree on a neutral third party, such matter shall be referred 
to one of the remaining members on the list referred to under paragraph 1 of 
Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators). Her or his name shall be selected by lot by the 
chairperson of the Trade Committee or by the chairperson's delegate. The decision by 
this person on the need to replace the chairperson of the arbitration panel shall be 
final. 
 
If this person decides that the original chairperson of the arbitration panel did not 
comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct, the Parties shall agree on the 
replacement. If the Parties fail to agree on a new chairperson of the arbitration panel, 
the chairperson of the Trade Committee, or the chairperson's delegate, shall select a 
new chairperson by lot from among the remaining members on the list referred to 
under paragraph 1 of Article 14.20 (Lists of Arbitrators). The remaining members on 
the list shall exclude, where relevant, the person who decided that the original 
chairperson did not comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct. The 
selection of the new chairperson shall be done within five days of the finding of the 
need to replace the chairperson. 
 
25.  The arbitration panel proceedings shall be suspended for the period during which the 
procedures provided for in Rules 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of this Annex are carried 
out. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 8 
 Hearings 
 
26.  The chairperson shall fix the date and time of the hearing in consultation with the 
Parties and the other arbitrators, and shall confirm this in writing to the Parties. This 
information shall also be made publicly available by the Party in charge of the logistical 
administration of the proceedings, unless the hearing is closed to the public. Unless a 
Party disagrees, the arbitration panel may decide not to convene a hearing. 
 
27.  Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the hearing shall be held in Brussels if the 
complaining Party is Singapore and in Singapore if the complaining Party is the Union. 
 
28.  The arbitration panel may convene additional hearings if the Parties so agree. 
 
29.  All arbitrators shall be present during the entirety of any hearings. 
 
30.  The following persons may attend the hearing, irrespective of whether the 
proceedings are open to the public or not: 
 
(a)  representatives of the Parties; 
(b)  advisers to the Parties; 
(c)  administrative staff, interpreters, translators and court reporters; and 
(d)  arbitrators' assistants. 
 
Only the representatives and advisers of the Parties may address the arbitration panel. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 9 
 31.  No later than five days before the date of a hearing, each Party shall simultaneously 
deliver to the arbitration panel and to the other Party a list of the names of persons 
who will make oral arguments or presentations at the hearing on behalf of that Party 
and of other representatives or advisers who are to attend the hearing. 
 
32.  The hearings of the arbitration panels shall be open to the public, unless the Parties 
decide that the hearings shall be partially or completely closed to the public. Where 
the hearings are open to the public, unless the Parties agree otherwise, the following 
shall apply: 
 
(a)  public viewing shall take place via simultaneous closed circuit television 
broadcast to a separate viewing room at the venue of the arbitration; 
 
(b)  registration for public viewing of the hearings shall be required; 
 
(c)  no audio or video recording or photography shall be permitted in the viewing 
room; 
 
(d)  the panel shall have the right to call for a closed session of any of the hearings in 
order to address issues related to any confidential information. 
 
The arbitration panel shall meet in closed session when the submission and arguments 
of a Party contains confidential information. Exceptionally, the panel shall have the 
right to conduct the hearing in a closed session at any time on its own initiative or at 
the request of either Party. 
 
33.  The arbitration panel shall conduct the hearing in the following manner, ensuring that 
the complaining Party and the Party complained against are afforded equal time: 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 10 
 Submissions 
 
(a)  submission of the complaining Party; 
(b)  counter-submission of the Party complained against; 
 
Rebuttals 
 
(a)  rebuttal of the complaining Party; 
(b)  counter-rebuttal of the Party complained against. 
 
34.  The arbitration panel may put questions to either Party at any time during the hearing. 
 
35.  The arbitration panel shall arrange for a transcript of each hearing to be prepared and 
delivered to the Parties as soon as possible. 
 
36.  Each Party may submit to the arbitration panel and simultaneously to the other Party 
a supplementary written submission concerning any matter that arose during the 
hearing within ten days of the date of the hearing. 
 
Questions in writing 
 
37.  The arbitration panel may address written questions at any time during the 
proceedings to one or both Parties. Each of the Parties shall receive a copy of any 
written questions put by the arbitration panel. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 11 
 38.  Each Party shall provide a copy of its written response to the arbitration panel's 
questions simultaneously to the arbitration panel and to the other Party. Each Party 
shall be given the opportunity to provide written comments on the other Party's 
response within five days of the date of receipt. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
39.  Where arbitration panel hearings are held in closed session, in accordance with 
Rule 32 of this Annex, the Parties and their advisers shall maintain the confidentiality 
of the hearings, the deliberations, the interim panel report, all written submissions to 
the panel, and all communications with the panel. Each Party and its advisers shall 
treat as confidential any information submitted by the other Party to the arbitration 
panel, where that Party has designated such information as confidential. Where a 
Party's submission to the arbitration panel contains confidential information, that 
Party shall also provide, upon request of the other Party, within 15 days, a non-
confidential version of the submission that could be disclosed to the public. Nothing in 
this Annex shall preclude a Party from disclosing statements of its own positions to the 
public, to the extent that, when making reference to information submitted by the 
other Party, to the extent that it does not disclose any information designated by the 
other Party as confidential. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 12 
 Ex parte contacts 
 
40.  The arbitration panel shall not meet, hear or otherwise contact a Party in the absence 
of the other Party. 
 
41.  No arbitrators may discuss any aspect of the subject matter of the proceedings with a 
Party or with the Parties in the absence of the other arbitrators. 
 
Amicus curiae submissions 
 
42.  Unless the Parties agree otherwise within three days of the date of the establishment 
of the arbitration panel, the arbitration panel may consider unsolicited written 
submissions from interested natural or legal persons of the Parties, provided that 
those submissions are made within ten days of the date of the establishment of the 
arbitration panel, that they are concise and in no case are longer than 15 typed pages, 
including any annexes, and that they are directly relevant to the factual issue under 
consideration by the arbitration panel. 
 
43.  The submission shall contain a description of the person making the submission, 
whether natural or legal, including the person's nationality or place of establishment, 
the nature of the person's activities and the source of the person's financing, and shall 
specify the nature of the interest that the person has in the arbitration proceeding. It 
shall be submitted in the languages chosen by the Parties in accordance with Rule 46 
of this Annex. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 13 
 44.  The arbitration panel shall list in its ruling all the submissions it has received that 
conform to Rules 42 and 43 of this Annex. The arbitration panel shall not be obliged to 
address in its ruling the arguments made in such submissions. Any submission 
obtained by the arbitration panel under this Annex shall be submitted to the Parties 
for their comments. 
 
Urgent cases 
 
45.  In cases of urgency referred to in Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement), the 
arbitration panel, after consulting the Parties, shall adjust the time limits referred to in 
this Annex as appropriate and shall notify the Parties of such adjustments. 
 
 
Translation and interpretation 
 
46.  During the consultations referred to in Article 14.3 (Consultations), and no later than 
the meeting referred to in Rule 10(b) of this Annex, the Parties shall endeavour to 
agree on a common working language for the proceedings before the arbitration 
panel. 
 
47.  Any Party may provide comments on any translated version of a document drawn up 
in accordance with this Annex. 
 
48.  In the event of any divergence over the interpretation of this Agreement, the 
arbitration panel shall take account of the fact that this Agreement was negotiated in 
English. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 14 
 Calculation of time-limits 
 
49.  Where, by reason of the application of Rule 8 of this Annex, a Party receives a 
document on a date other than the date on which this document is received by the 
other Party, any period of time that is calculated on the basis of the date of receipt of 
that document shall be calculated from the last date of receipt of that document. 
 
Other procedures 
 
50.  This Annex also applies to procedures under paragraph 2 of Article 14.10 (Reasonable 
Period of Time for Compliance), paragraph 2 of Article 14.11 (Review of Any Measure 
Taken to Comply with the Arbitration Panel Ruling), paragraph 3 of Article 14.12 
(Temporary Remedies in Case of Non-compliance), paragraph 2 of Article 14.13 
(Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply After the Suspension of Obligations). The 
time limits laid down in this Annex shall be adjusted in line with the special time limits 
provided for the adoption of rulings by the arbitration panel in those other 
procedures. 
 
51.  In the event that the original panel, or some of its members, are unable to reconvene 
for the procedures under paragraph 2 of Article 14.10 (Reasonable Period of Time for 
Compliance), paragraph 2 of Article 14.11 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply 
with the Arbitration Panel Ruling), paragraph 3 of Article 14.12 (Temporary Remedies 
in Case of Non-compliance), paragraph 2 of Article 14.13 (Review of Any Measure 
Taken to Comply After the Suspension of Obligations), the procedures set out in 
Article 14.5 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. The time limit for the 
notification of the ruling shall be extended by 15 days. 
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA Annex 14-A - 15 
 