 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 1 
ANNEX 2-B 
 
 
MOTOR VEHICLES AND PARTS THEREOF 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
General Provisions 
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to all forms of motor vehicles and parts thereof that are traded 
between the Parties that fall under Chapters 40, 84, 85, 87 and 94 of the HS 2012 
(hereinafter referred to as "products covered by this Annex"). 
 
2. 
With regard to the products covered by this Annex, the Parties confirm the following 
shared objectives and principles: 
 
(a) 
eliminating and preventing non-tariff barriers to bilateral trade; 
 
(b) 
promoting compatibility and convergence of regulations based on international 
standards; 
 
(c) 
promoting recognition of approvals based, in particular, on approval schemes 
applied under the agreements administered by the World Forum for 
Harmonization of Vehicle Regulations (hereinafter referred to as the "WP.29") 
within the framework of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe 
(hereinafter referred to as "UNECE"); 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 2 
(d) 
establishing competitive market conditions based on the principles of openness, 
non-discrimination and transparency; 
 
(e) 
securing the protection of human health, safety and the environment; and 
 
(f) 
enhancing cooperation to foster continued mutually beneficial development in 
trade. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
International Standards 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that the WP.29 is the relevant international standard-setting 
body for the products covered by this Annex1. 
 
2. 
If Singapore decides to introduce a type-approval system for products covered by this 
Annex, Singapore will consider becoming a signatory of the Agreement concerning the 
Adoption of Uniform Technical Prescriptions for Wheeled Vehicles, Equipment and 
Parts which can be fitted and/or be used on Wheeled Vehicles and the Conditions for 
Reciprocal Recognition of Approvals Granted on the Basis of these Prescriptions, done 
at Geneva on 20 March 1958. 
 
 
                                                           
1 
This paragraph is without prejudice to the Parties' rights to accept national standards or technical 
regulations of other countries. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 3 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Regulatory Convergence 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Parties shall at all times refrain from introducing any new domestic technical 
regulations that diverge from UNECE Regulations or Global Technical 
Regulations (hereinafter referred to as "GTR") in areas covered by such UNECE 
Regulations or GTR, or where the completion of such UNECE Regulations or GTR 
is imminent, unless there are substantiated reasons, based on scientific or 
technical information, why a specific UNECE Regulation is ineffective or 
inappropriate for ensuring road safety or for the protection of the environment 
or public health2. 
 
(b) 
A Party which introduces a new domestic technical regulation as referred to in 
subparagraph (a), upon request of the other Party, shall identify the parts of the 
domestic technical regulation which substantially deviate from the relevant 
UNECE Regulations or GTR, and shall provide due justification as to the reasons 
for the deviation. 
 
                                                           
2 
Paragraphs 1(a) and 2 of Article 3 (Regulatory Convergence) and Article 6 (Other Measures Restricting 
Trade) of this Annex are without prejudice to Singapore taking traffic management measures such as 
electronic road pricing, on account of Singapore's specific space constraints. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 4 
2. 
Insofar as a Party has introduced and maintains domestic technical regulations that 
diverge from existing UNECE Regulations or GTR in accordance with paragraph 1, that 
Party shall review those domestic technical regulations at regular intervals not 
exceeding five years, with a view to increasing the convergence of those domestic 
technical regulations with the relevant UNECE Regulations or GTR. When reviewing 
their domestic technical regulations, the Parties shall consider whether the 
circumstances that gave rise to the divergence still exist. The outcome of these 
reviews, including scientific and technical information used, shall be notified to the 
other Party upon request. 
 
3. 
Singapore shall accept new3 Union products covered by this Annex and which are 
covered by an EC or UNECE type-approval certificate on its market as complying with its 
domestic technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, without further 
testing or marking requirements to verify or attest compliance with requirements 
covered by an EC4 or UNECE type-approval. A certificate of conformity, in the case of 
whole vehicles, or an EC or UNECE type-approval mark affixed to the product, in the case 
of components and separate technical units, shall be considered sufficient proof of the 
type-approval certificate. 
 
                                                           
3 
For the purposes of this paragraph, where the term "new Union products covered by this Annex" 
refers to whole vehicles, this term is understood to mean vehicles which have never been registered before 
worldwide. 
4 
For greater clarity, the terms "EC type-approval", "EC type-approval certificate", "certificate of 
conformity" and "EC type-approval mark" shall have the meanings assigned to them under Union legislation, in 
particular Directive 2007/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 September 2007 
establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components 
and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (OJ EU L 263, 9.10.2007, p. 1). 
 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 5 
4. 
The competent administrative authorities of each Party may verify by random sampling 
in accordance with its domestic legislation that the products comply with, as appropriate: 
 
(a) 
all the domestic technical regulations of the Party; or 
 
(b) 
the domestic technical regulations to which compliance has been attested by an 
EC Certificate of conformity, in the case of whole vehicles, or an EC or UNECE mark 
affixed to the product, in the case of components and separate technical units, as 
referred to in paragraph 3. 
 
Such verification shall be carried out in accordance with the domestic technical 
regulations under subparagraphs (a) or (b), as the case may be. Each Party may 
require a supplier to withdraw a product from its market where the product 
concerned does not comply with those regulations and requirements. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Products with New Technologies or New Features 
 
1. 
Neither Party shall prevent or unduly delay the placing on its market of a product 
covered by this Annex and approved by the exporting Party, on the ground that the 
product incorporates a new technology or a new feature that the importing Party has 
not yet regulated, unless the importing Party can demonstrate, based on scientific or 
technical information, that such new technology or new feature creates a risk for 
human health, safety or the environment. 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 6 
2. 
When a Party refuses the placing on its market, or requires the withdrawal from its 
market, of a product of the other Party covered by this Annex on the grounds that it 
incorporates a new technology or a new feature creating a risk for human health, 
safety or the environment, it shall immediately notify this decision to the other Party 
and to the economic operators5 concerned. The notification shall include all relevant 
scientific or technical information considered in the Party's decision. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
Licensing 
 
Neither Party shall apply automatic import licensing or non-automatic import licensing6 to 
the products covered by this Annex. 
 
 
                                                           
5 
Where Singapore is the importing Party, "economic operator" shall mean the importer of the product 
concerned. 
6 
The terms "import licensing", "automatic import licensing" and "non-automatic import licensing" are 
defined in Articles 1 to 3 of the WTO Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 2-B - 7 
ARTICLE 6 
 
Other Measures Restricting Trade 
 
Each Party shall refrain from nullifying or impairing the market access benefits accruing to 
the other Party under this Annex through other regulatory measures specific to the sector 
covered by this Annex. This is without prejudice to the right of each Party to adopt 
measures necessary for road safety, the protection of the environment or public health and 
the prevention of deceptive practices, provided such measures are based on substantiated 
scientific or technical information. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
Joint Cooperation 
 
In the Committee on Trade in Goods, the Parties shall cooperate and exchange information on 
any matters relevant for the implementation of this Annex. 
 
 
________________ 
