 
ANNEX 9-I 
 
 
PUBLIC-PRIVATE-PARTNERSHIPS 
 
1.  The Parties share the understanding that a public-private-partnership (hereinafter 
referred to as "PPP") refers to a contractual arrangement between a procuring entity 
and a supplier to deliver a set of services, in which the supplier is granted a major role, 
in particular in that the risks generally borne by the public sector (such as operative or 
financial risk) are partially or fully transferred to the supplier. 
 
Possible Types of PPP Arrangements 
 
2.  For the purpose of Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) and this Annex, PPP in 
particular include but are not limited to the following types of arrangements: 
 
(a)  build-operate-transfer: any contractual arrangement the purpose of which is to 
provide for the construction or rehabilitation of physical infrastructures, 
buildings, facilities or other government-owned works and under which, as 
consideration for a supplier's execution of a contractual arrangement, a 
procuring entity grants to the supplier, for a specified period of time, temporary 
ownership or a right to control and operate, and demand payment for, the use 
of such works for the duration of the contract; 
 
(b)  build-rent-own-transfer/ build-lease-operate contracts: where a private 
operator may rent or lease the asset after the transfer to the procuring entity; 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-I - 1 
  
(c)  design-finance-build-operate contracts: where a private operator designs, 
builds, develops, operates and manages an asset, without a requirement to 
transfer the asset at the end of contract; or 
 
(d)  lease-develop-operate contracts: where a private operator leases an existing 
asset, possibly expands or restores it, and operates it. 
 
Treatment of PPP under the Union's and Singapore's Respective Legal Frameworks 
 
3.  For the purposes of Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) and this Annex: 
 
(a)  for the Union, PPP falls into the two categories of either public works / public 
services contracts or public works / public services concessions, as prescribed in 
the Union's relevant legislation governing public procurement; 
 
(b)  for Singapore, PPP is governed by the provisions of the Government 
Procurement Act and its subsidiary legislation, provided they meet the criteria 
set out therein. 
 
Coverage of PPP and Rules Applicable to PPP 
 
4.  PPP is covered under Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) subject to Article 9.2 
(Scope and Coverage). 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-I - 2 
  
5.  The commitments under Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) only apply to the 
PPP contract concluded between a covered procuring entity and a supplier to which 
the PPP contract is awarded. Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) does not 
govern: 
 
(a)  the internal arrangement of the supplier where the supplier is a group of 
persons providing or seeking to provide services; or 
 
(b)  the acquisition of goods, construction services or other services or any 
combination of the aforesaid by the supplier to which the PPP contract is 
awarded. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-I - 3 
 