ANNEX 9-E 
 
 
SERVICES 
 
 
PART 1 
 
SINGAPORE'S COMMITMENTS 
 
Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) covers the following services as contained in 
document MTN.GNS/W/120: 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 1 
 EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 2 
  
Notes to Part 1 of Annex 9-E: 
 
1.  The commitment regarding services is subject to the limitations and conditions specified 
in Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annex 8-B and the Appendices thereto. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 3 
 2.  Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) does not apply to any procurement made by a 
covered entity on behalf of a non-covered entity. 
 
3.  Except asset management and other financial services procured by the Ministry of 
Finance and the Monetary Authority of Singapore for the purpose of managing official 
foreign reserves and other foreign assets of the Government of Singapore. 
 
4.  Except asset management and other financial services procured by the Central 
Provident Fund Board. 
 
5.  Includes only real estate consultancy services, auction and valuation services. 
 
6.  Except for the printing of Government legislation and gazette. 
 
7.  Except gambling and betting services. 
 
8.  Telecommunication services exclude broadcasting services, which are services 
consisting of the uninterrupted chains of transmission by wired or wireless means 
required for the reception and/or display of aural and/or visual programme signals by all 
or part of the public. 
 
9.  Basic telecommunication services may be provided using satellite technology. 
 
10.  Includes voice, data and facsimile services. 
 
11.  Mobile services may be provided using satellite technology. 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 4 
 PART 2 
 
UNION'S COMMITMENTS 
 
Chapter Nine (Government Procurement) covers the following services, which are identified in 
accordance with the United Nations Provisional Central Product Classification (CPC) as 
contained in document MTN.GNS/W/120*: 
 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 5 
 Notes to Part 2 of Annex 9-E: 
 
1.  Without prejudice to note 6 of this Annex, the Union's commitments regarding services 
do not cover services concessions as referred to in Annex 9-I. 
 
2.  The Union's commitments regarding services are subject to the limitations and 
conditions specified in the Union Schedule of Specific Commitments under Chapter 
Eight (Services, Establishment and Electronic Commerce). 
 
3.*  Except for services which entities have to procure from another entity pursuant to an 
exclusive right established by a published law, regulation or administrative provision. 
 
4.**  –  Except for the procurement or acquisition of fiscal agency or depository services, 
liquidation, and management services for regulated financial institutions or 
services related to the sale, redemption and distribution of public debt, including 
loans and government bonds, notes and other securities. 
 
–  In Sweden, payments to and from governmental agencies shall be transacted 
through the Swedish Postal Giro System (Postgiro). 
 
5.***  Except arbitration and conciliation services. 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 6 
 6.  Should the on-going revision of the Union legislation on public procurement result in an 
expansion of the scope of services and services concessions fully covered by that 
legislation, the Parties will, at the request of either Party, review the possibility of 
further access to services and services concessions in view of balanced market access 
opportunities for both Parties. The Parties may, by decision of the Committee on Trade 
in Services, Investment and Government Procurement established pursuant to 
Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees), amend their schedules of commitments set out in 
this Annex to reflect the result of such review. 
 
7.  Should the revision of the Union legislation on public procurement result in a further 
clarification or development of rules applicable to services concessions and should the 
Parties conduct a successful review of possible further market access to services 
concessions, on the basis of the note 6 above, the Union shall, at the request of 
Singapore, review the possibility to reflect these developments in Chapter Nine 
(Government Procurement) or this Annex. Following such review, the Parties may, by 
decision of the Committee on Trade in Services, Investment and Government 
Procurement, adapt rules applicable to services concessions in Chapter Nine 
(Government Procurement) or their commitments set out in Annex 9-F. 
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA Annex 9-E - 7 
 