 
Appendix 8-B-1 
 
 
SINGAPORE 
 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
1.  The classification of service sectors in this schedule is based on the 1991 provisional Central 
Product Classification (CPC) of the United Nations Statistical Office unless otherwise 
indicated by the absence of a CPC number. The ordering reflects the services sectoral 
classification list as used in the GATT document MTN.GNS/W/120 dated 10 July 1991. The 
scheduling of specific commitments follows the guidelines stated in GATT documents 
MTN.GNS/W/164 dated 3 September 1993 and MTN.GNS/W/164/Add.1 dated 
30 November 1993. 
 
2.  The use of "**" against individual CPC codes indicates that the specific commitment for that 
code shall not extend to the total range of services covered under that code. 
 
3.  The classification of establishment sectors in this schedule is based on the International 
Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) Revision 3 of the United Nations Statistical Office. As 
necessary and appropriate, Singapore could specify the exact coverage of the commitment if 
the commitment does not exactly conform to the classification system. 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 1 
  
4.  The list of commitments below (hereinafter referred to as "this Schedule") indicates the 
service sectors liberalised pursuant to Article 8.7 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) and 
Article 8.12 (Schedule of Specific Commitments), and, by means of reservations, the market 
access and national treatment limitations that apply to services and service suppliers of the 
Union in those sectors. This Schedule is composed of the following elements: 
 
(a)  the first column, which indicates the sector or subsector in which the commitment is 
undertaken by Singapore, and the scope of liberalisation to which the reservations 
apply; 
 
(b)  the second column, which describes the applicable reservations to Article 8.5 (Market 
Access) and Article 8.10 (Market Access) in the sector or subsector indicated in the first 
column; 
 
(c)  the third column, which describes the applicable reservations to Article 8.6 (National 
Treatment) and Article 8.11 (National Treatment) in the sector or subsector indicated 
in the first column; and 
 
(d)  the fourth column, which describes specific commitments on measures affecting the 
cross-border supply of services and establishment in service sectors not subject to 
scheduling under Article 8.5 (Market Access) and Article 8.10 (Market Access) and 
Article 8.6 (National Treatment) and Article 8.11 (National Treatment). 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 2 
  
5.  Notwithstanding Article 8.10 (Market Access), non-discriminatory requirements as regards 
the types of legal form of an establishment do not need to be specified in this Schedule in 
order to be maintained or adopted by Singapore. 
 
6.  This Schedule does not include measures relating to qualification requirements and 
procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements when they do not constitute a 
market access or a national treatment limitation within the meaning of Article 8.5 (Market 
Access) and Article 8.10 (Market Access) and Article 8.6 (National Treatment) and 
Article 8.11 (National Treatment). Those measures (e.g. need to obtain a license, universal 
service obligations, need to obtain recognition of qualifications in regulated sectors, and 
need to pass specific examinations, including language examinations and need to have a 
legal domicile in the territory where the economic activity is performed), even if not listed, 
apply in any case to services and service suppliers of the Union. 
 
7.  In accordance with paragraph 2(a) of Article 8.1 (Objective and Scope), this Schedule shall 
not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party, including government-supported loans, 
guarantees, and insurance. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 3 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 4 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 5 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 6 
  
                                                           
1  Persons who qualify to be appointed in such a capacity are primarily Singapore citizens, Singapore permanent residents and EntrePass holders (all with local address). 
2  Following the conclusion of the review of the Business Registration Act, any amendment to the Act by Singapore to delete any restriction for businesses conducted wholly 
online as appropriate, will be incorporated into this schedule. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 7 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 8 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 9 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 10 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 11 
  
Legal Services in relation to  1) None, except only persons who  1) None, except as indicated in the   
Singapore law1 (861**)  are admitted to the Singapore Bar,  market access column 
registered as members with the  2) None 
Law Society of Singapore, and 
3) None, except as indicated in the 
holding a valid Practising Certificate 
market access column 
are allowed to provide legal 
4) Unbound 
services in relation to Singapore 
law. 
                                                           
1  Due to the gradual liberalisation process of Singapore's legal services market, Singapore cannot yet commit to further market access in this sector. The Parties will, with a 
view to granting further market access, review their commitments in legal services no later than two years after entry into force of the EUSFTA. The Trade Committee may 
amend either Party’s schedules in this respect. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 12 
  
  2) None     
3) Only persons who are admitted 
to the Singapore Bar, registered as 
members with the Law Society of 
Singapore, and holding a valid 
Practising Certificate are allowed to 
provide legal services in relation to 
Singapore law. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 13 
  
  EU law enterprises may only     
provide legal services in relation to 
Singapore law through a Joint Law 
Venture or Formal Law Alliance 
with a Singapore law enterprise, 
and only to the extent allowed by 
the laws, rules, and regulations 
concerning Joint Law Ventures and 
Formal Law Alliances, and subject 
to the conditions and requirements 
relating to Joint Law Ventures and 
Formal Law Alliances. However, 
Singapore will modify these 
conditions and restrictions in 
favour of EU law enterprises as 
follows: 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 14 
  
  (i)  the minimum number of EU     
lawyers resident in Singapore 
which the EU law enterprise 
is required to maintain in a 
Joint Law Venture or a 
Formal Law Alliance shall be 
reduced from 5 to 3, at least 
2 of whom shall be equity 
partners or a member of the 
board of directors of the EU 
law enterprise; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 15 
  
  (ii)  the minimum relevant     
experience required of the 3 
EU lawyers referred to in 
paragraph (i) shall be 
considered on an aggregate 
basis of 15 years, rather than 
on the basis of an individual 
experience of 5 years for 
each EU lawyer; 
(iii)  the minimum required 
relevant experience for EU 
lawyers working in a Joint 
Law Venture who wishes to 
apply to practise Singapore 
law under the Legal 
Profession Act shall be 
reduced from 5 years to 3 
years; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 16 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 17 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 18 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 19 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 20 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 21 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 22 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 23 
  
Residential and non-residential  1) None, except that only the  1) None, except that only the   
property management services on  Sentosa Development Corporation  Sentosa Development Corporation 
a fee or contract basis (82201,  and its successor is allowed to  and/or its successor is allowed to 
82202)  develop and manage the resort  develop and manage the resort 
island of Sentosa and its  island of Sentosa and its 
waterways.  waterways. 
However, subject to approval,  However, subject to approval, 
private developers are allowed to  private developers are allowed to 
develop specific plots of land on  develop specific plots of land on 
Sentosa for commercial,  Sentosa for commercial, 
residential, and recreational  residential, and recreational 
purposes.  purposes. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 24 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 25 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 26 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 27 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 28 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 29 
  
Services incidental to agriculture,  1) None  1) None   
hunting, forestry and fishing,  2) None  2) None 
excluding: 
3) None  3) None 
services of farm labour contractors; 
4) Unbound except as indicated in  4) Unbound 
firefighting;  the horizontal section 
forest services including forest 
damage services; and 
logging related services 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 30 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 31 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 32 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 33 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 34 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 35 
  
Unarmed guard services (87305**)  Limitation on market access and  1) Unbound   
national treatment  2) None 
All commitments in this sector are 
3) None 
subject to the Private Security 
4) Unbound 
Industry Act (PSIA). The Act 
stipulates the following: 
–  Foreigners are permitted to 
set up agencies to provide 
unarmed guards for hire but 
must register a company with 
local participation. 
–  In other words, at least two 
of the directors must be 
Singaporeans or Singaporean 
permanent residents. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 36 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 37 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 38 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 39 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 40 
  
Postal Services  1) Subject to commercial  1) None   
arrangements with licensed 
1.  Basic letter services –   2) None 
operator(s). 
3) None 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 41 
  
                                                           
1  A "letter" means any communication in written form on any kind of physical medium to be conveyed and delivered (otherwise than electronically) to a particular addressee 
or address indicated by the sender on the letter itself or on its wrapping, and includes a postal article containing such communication, but does not include any book, 
catalogue, newspaper or periodical. 
2  The security conditions cannot in any case constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination against the EU operators, or a disguised restriction on 
establishment or cross border supply of services. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 42 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 43 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 44 
  
                                                           
6  A "local express letter" means a letter originating from a sender in Singapore and intended for delivery within Singapore within the same working day. 
7  An "international express letter" means a letter – (i) originating from a sender in Singapore and intended for delivery to a destination outside Singapore at a rate faster than 
the published delivery standard for air mail letters despatched by the public postal licensee; or (ii) originating from a sender outside Singapore and intended for delivery 
within the same working day in Singapore. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 45 
  
B.  Courier Services 
                                                           
8  Telecommunication services exclude broadcasting services, which are services consisting of the uninterrupted chains of transmission by wired or wireless means required 
for the reception and/or display of aural and/or visual programme signals by all or part of the public. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 46 
  
1.  Basic Telecommunication  1) Subject to commercial  1) None   
Services9, including resale  arrangements with licensed  2) None 
(facilities-based and  operator(s) 
3) None 
services-based):  2) None 
4) Unbound 
(a)  Public Switched Services10  3) All service suppliers must be 
(local and international) 
incorporated as companies under 
(b)  Leased Circuit Services (local  the Companies Act (Cap. 50). 
and international)  4) Unbound, except as indicated in 
the horizontal section 
                                                           
9  Basic Telecommunication Services may be provided using satellite technology. 
10  This includes voice, data and facsimile services. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 47 
  
2.  Mobile Services11, including  1) Subject to commercial  1) None   
resale (facilities-based and  arrangements with licensed  2) None 
services-based):  operator(s) 
3) None 
(a)  Public Mobile Data Service  2) None 
4) Unbound 
(PMDS)  3) All service suppliers must be 
(b)  Public Trunked Radio Service  incorporated as companies under 
(PTRS)  the Companies Act (Cap. 50). 
(c)  Public Radio Paging Service  4) Unbound, except as indicated in 
(PRPS)  the horizontal section 
(d)  Public Cellular Mobile 
Telephone Service (PCMTS) 
                                                           
11  Mobile Services may be provided using satellite technology. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 48 
  
3.  Value-added Network (VAN)  1) None  1) None   
services  2) None  2) None 
The services covered are:  3) None  3) None 
–  electronic-mail  4) Unbound, except as indicated in  4) Unbound 
–  voice-mail  the horizontal section 
–  on-line information and 
data-base retrieval 
–  electronic data interchange 
–  on-line information and/or 
data processing 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 49 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 50 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 51 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 52 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 53 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 54 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 55 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 56 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 57 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 58 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 59 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 60 
  
                                                           
12  Local tertiary institutions are tertiary institutions which are established pursuant to an Act of Parliament, or as designated by the Ministry of Education. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 61 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 62 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 63 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 64 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 65 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 66 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 67 
  
                                                           
13  For example, partnerships and sole proprietorships are generally not acceptable juridical forms for depository financial institutions in Singapore. This headnote is not itself 
intended to affect, or otherwise limit, a choice by a financial service supplier of the other Party between branches or subsidiaries. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 68 
  
(a)  Life insurance services  1) Unbound  1) Unbound   
including annuity, disability  2) None  2) None 
income, accident and health 
3) These measures are also  3) None 
insurance services  
limitations on national treatment.  4) Unbound except as indicated in 
In considering the admission of  the horizontal section. 
insurers under the Central 
Provident Fund Investment Scheme 
(CPFIS), the Central Provident Fund 
Board takes into consideration the 
following factors: 
(a)  whether the insurer has a 
minimum one-year track 
record as a registered insurer 
in Singapore; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 69 
  
  (b)  whether the insurer employs     
a minimum of three fund 
management staff, one of 
whom must have at least five 
years of fund management 
experience; the other two 
may only have two years of 
fund management 
experience if they: 
(i)  are fully qualified 
Chartered Financial 
Analysts (CFAs), or 
(ii)  are Associates of the 
Society of Actuaries, or 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 70 
  
  (iii)  hold Certificates in     
Finance and 
Investments from the 
Institute of Actuaries, 
or 
(iv)  hold equivalent 
qualifications from any 
of the professional 
actuarial bodies 
recognised in 
Singapore; and 
(c)  whether the insurer manages 
at least SGD 500 million 
worth of funds in Singapore. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 71 
  
  For the purpose of this limitation,     
the definition of "fund 
management staff" shall include 
portfolio managers, research 
analysts and traders. 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
the horizontal section 
(b)  Non-life insurance services  1) Unbound, except that insurers  1) As indicated in the market   
including disability income,  which are authorised or licensed to  access column 
short term accident and  provide non-life insurance services  2) None 
health insurance and  in the Union may provide insurance 
3) None 
contracts of fidelity bonds,  of maritime, aviation and transit 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
performance bonds or similar  ("MAT") risks comprising: 
the horizontal section 
contracts of guarantee 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 72 
  
  (i)  maritime shipping and     
commercial aviation and 
space launching and freight 
(including satellites), with 
such insurance to cover any 
or all of the following: the 
goods being transported, the 
vehicle transporting the 
goods and any liability arising 
therefrom; and 
(ii)  goods in international transit. 
2) These measures are also 
limitations on national treatment. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 73 
  
  None except that compulsory     
insurance of motor third party 
liability and workmen's 
compensation may only be 
purchased from licensed insurance 
companies14 in Singapore. 
3) None 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
the horizontal section 
                                                           
14  Licensing is expressed as, and equivalent to, registration for insurance companies, and insurance brokers carrying on insurance business in Singapore as provided for in 
Singapore domestic law on insurance. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 74 
  
(d)  Insurance intermediation  1) Unbound except that brokers  1) As indicated in the market   
comprising broking and  which are authorised or licensed to  access column 
agency services  provide "MAT" and reinsurance  2) None 
intermediation in the EU may 
3) None 
supply such services. 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
2) The placement of domestic risks 
the horizontal section 
outside Singapore by brokers is 
subject to the approval of MAS, 
with the exception of reinsurance 
risks and insurance risks relating to 
maritime liabilities of ship owners 
insured by protection & indemnity 
clubs, or marine, aviation and 
transit business insured with an 
approved MAT insurer. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 75 
  
  3) None     
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
the horizontal section. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 76 
  
                                                           
15  For example, partnerships and sole proprietorships are generally not acceptable juridical forms for depository financial institutions in Singapore. This headnote is not itself 
intended to affect, or otherwise limit, a choice by a financial service supplier of the other Party between branches or subsidiaries. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 77 
  
(a)  Acceptance of deposits and  1) Unbound  1) Unbound  Commercial banks 
other repayable funds from the  2) None  2) None  If Singapore commits with 
public  3) These measures are also  3) Commercial banks  countries, with at least one full 
limitations on national treatment.  As indicated in the Market Access  bank licence with qualifying full 
bank (QFB) privileges other than 
Only institutions licensed or  column. 
the United States of America, to 
approved as banks, merchant   
offer one or more new full bank 
banks and finance companies can 
Merchant banks  licences with QFB privileges after 
accept deposits. This measure is 
As indicated in the Market Access  the date of this Agreement comes 
not discriminatory. 
column.  into force, the number of 
Foreign banks can operate from 
additional new full bank licences 
 
only one office (excluding 
with QFB privileges will be offered 
back-office operations) unless  Finance companies 
to the EU. Other than the EU, only 
otherwise specified in this  As indicated in the Market Access 
Australia, China, India, Malaysia 
schedule. They cannot establish  column. 
and the United States of America 
off-premise ATMs and ATM 
  have one or more full bank licences 
networking and new sub-branches 
4) Unbound except as indicated in  with QFB privileges. 
unless otherwise specified in this 
the horizontal section. 
schedule. This is also a limitation 
on national treatment. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 78 
  
  Location of banks and relocation of    If Singapore allows a foreign QFB, 
banks and sub-branches require  other than from the US, to have 
prior approval from MAS. This  more than 50 customer service 
limitation will not be used as a  locations, the same privilege 
means of arbitrary and  should also be given to significantly 
unjustifiable discrimination against  rooted EU QFBs. 
EU banks or disguised restriction 
on trade in services to the 
competitive advantage of local 
incumbents. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 79 
  
  None, except the following     
electronic retail banking services: 
opening of accounts by new 
customers16, acceptance of 
deposits, dispensing of legal tender 
notes and coins, and application for 
unsecured credit facilities17. These 
measures shall be non-
discriminatory, be non-arbitrary 
and shall not include any economic 
needs test. For greater clarity, 
none of these measures shall apply 
to wholesale banks, offshore banks 
and merchant banks. 
                                                           
16  This limitation does not preclude the possibility that parts of these transactions may be performed online. 
17  This limitation does not preclude the possibility that parts of these transactions may be performed online. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 80 
  
  For the purpose of this limitation,     
electronic banking services are 
provided over points of access not 
arranged by the bank, such as 
mobile personal retail banking, 
home internet retail banking and as 
such technology may evolve. 
Establishment and operation of 
commercial foreign banks, 
merchant banks and finance 
companies are also subject to the 
limitations listed under activities 
B(a) to B(l) and the following 
limitations: 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 81 
  
  Commercial banks     
No new full bank licence will be 
granted to foreign banks, unless 
otherwise specified in additional 
commitments. 
Any EU bank with qualifying full 
bank ("QFB") privileges will be 
allowed to establish up to an 
additional 25 customer service 
locations (of which up to 10 may be 
established as branches), over and 
above the EU bank's existing limit 
of 25 customer service locations if 
and only if the MAS has 
determined that the EU bank is 
significantly rooted in Singapore. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 82 
  
  In determining whether the EU     
bank is significantly rooted in 
Singapore, MAS will consider the 
following: 
(a)  the EU bank must, at a 
minimum, incorporate its 
retail banking operations; 
(b)  a simple majority of the 
Board of the EU bank's local 
subsidiary must be 
Singaporeans, Permanent 
Residents or a combination 
thereof; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 83 
  
  (c)  MAS is satisfied that the EU     
bank and the local subsidiary 
where applicable serves a 
comprehensive spectrum of 
the local community in 
Singapore and in principle, 
respects the key initiatives of 
any industry-wide 
associations; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 84 
  
  (d)  MAS is satisfied that the EU     
bank is committed to 
Singapore's financial stability 
and development in the long 
term. For example, MAS will 
consider the number of 
persons which the EU bank 
employs in Singapore and its 
willingness to support 
Singapore's financial stability; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 85 
  
  (e)  Singapore is one of the EU     
bank's significant markets 
contributing a significant part 
of profits and assets to the 
EU bank's global banking 
group18; 
(f)  major business lines are 
headquartered in Singapore 
and the key decision makers 
of the business lines are 
resident in Singapore. 
                                                           
18  "EU bank's global banking group" means the parent company of the EU bank (or the EU bank, as the case may be, where it is not owned or controlled by a parent company) 
and its group of companies which are consolidated according to accounting standards in the jurisdiction where the parent company is incorporated or established. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 86 
  
  For avoidance of doubt, the local     
subsidiary must hold the Full Bank 
licence with the QFB privileges and 
is the entity which would be 
allowed to establish up to an 
additional 25 customer service 
locations (of which up to 10 may be 
established as branches). 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 87 
  
  A QFB may, with the prior approval     
of the MAS, enter into any 
arrangement with a local bank for 
access to the ATM network of the 
local bank for the purpose of 
permitting a cardholder of the QFB 
to obtain cash advances from his 
credit or charge card account, as 
the case may be. Where such an 
application for approval is made by 
the QFB, it would be granted as a 
matter of course, subject to such 
conditions as the MAS may impose. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 88 
  
  QFBs may provide debit services on     
an Electronic Funds Transfer at 
Point of Sale (EFTPOS) network. 
 
Wholesale banks 
12 EU banks holding wholesale 
bank licenses, upon application to 
the MAS, will be allowed to 
operate up to 2 customer service 
locations each. 
Singapore commits to review the 
possibility of increasing the number 
of banks allowed to benefit from 
customer service locations once 
they are awarded to 12 EU banks.  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 89 
  
  Only a maximum of 20 new     
wholesale bank licenses will be 
granted by MAS and/or its 
successor body between 1 January 
2013 to 31 December 2014. 
Quantitative limits on the number 
of wholesale bank licences will be 
removed for EU banks with or 
without operations in Singapore, 
3 years after the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement and such 
banks may be admitted directly as 
wholesale banks. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 90 
  
  Wholesale banks are not permitted     
to: 
(a)  accept Singapore dollar fixed 
deposits of less than 
SGD 250 000; 
(b)  operate Singapore dollar 
savings accounts without 
MAS' prior approval; 
(c)  operate interest-bearing 
Singapore dollar current 
accounts for natural persons 
who are Singapore residents; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 91 
  
  (d)  issue Singapore dollar bonds     
and negotiable certificates of 
deposit, unless the 
requirements pertaining to 
minimum maturity period, 
minimum denomination or 
class of investors contained 
in the Guidelines for 
Operation of Wholesale 
Banks issued by MAS and/or 
its successor body are 
complied with. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 92 
  
  Offshore banks     
Offshore banks are not permitted 
to: 
(a)  provide credit facilities to 
non-bank residents of 
Singapore in Singapore 
dollars exceeding a total of 
SGD 500 million at any one 
time; 
(b)  offer savings account; 
(c)  accept any fixed deposits or 
operate savings account in 
Singapore dollars from 
non-bank residents of 
Singapore; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 93 
  
  (d)  operate current accounts for     
non-bank residents unless 
the accounts are offered: 
(i)  in connection with 
credit facilities granted 
to, or other business 
dealings with the 
customer; or 
(ii)  to customers of the 
bank's head office; 
(e)  operate interest-bearing 
Singapore dollar current 
accounts for natural persons 
who are Singapore residents; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 94 
  
  (f)  operate Singapore dollar     
savings accounts from 
non-bank non-residents of 
Singapore; 
(g)  accept Singapore dollar fixed 
deposits of less than 
SGD 250 000 from non-bank 
non-residents; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 95 
  
  (h)  issue Singapore dollar bonds     
and negotiable certificates of 
deposit, unless the 
requirements pertaining to 
minimum maturity period, 
minimum denomination or 
class of investors contained 
in the Guidelines for 
Operation of Offshore Banks 
issued by MAS and its 
successor body are complied 
with. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 96 
  
  No foreign person shall, acting     
alone or in concert with other 
persons, assume control of any 
Singapore-incorporated bank or 
company, belonging to a class of 
financial institutions approved as 
financial holding companies under 
section 28 of the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore Act 
(referred to as a financial holding 
company) or approved, designated 
or otherwise regulated as financial 
holding companies under other 
laws and regulations. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 97 
  
  Singapore shall not require more     
than a simple majority of the board 
of directors of an EU bank be 
composed of Singapore nationals, 
persons residing in Singapore, or a 
combination thereof. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 98 
  
  Approval from the Minister is     
required before a person, either 
alone or together with associated 
persons, is allowed to acquire 
indirect control over and 
shareholdings or voting control of 
or exceeding 5 %, 12 %, 20 % 
shareholdings in a 
Singapore-incorporated bank or a 
financial holding company, and 
before a Singapore-incorporated 
bank or a financial holding 
company is merged or taken over 
by any other body. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 99 
  
  In approving applications to exceed     
the threshold limits, the Minister 
may impose conditions that are 
considered necessary to prevent 
undue control, protect public 
interests and to ensure the 
integrity of the financial system. 
A foreign person is a person that is: 
In the case of a natural person, not 
a citizen of Singapore; and 
In the case of a corporation, not 
controlled by citizens of Singapore. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 100 
  
  Merchant banks     
Merchant banks can only operate 
from one office (excluding back-
office operations). This measure is 
not discriminatory. 
Location and relocation of 
merchant banks require MAS' prior 
approval. This limitation shall not 
be used as a means of arbitrary and 
unjustifiable discrimination against 
EU merchant banks or disguised 
restriction on trade in services to 
the competitive advantage of local 
incumbents. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 101 
  
  Merchant banks can, with MAS'     
authorisation, raise foreign 
currency funds from residents and 
non-residents, operate foreign 
currency savings accounts for non-
residents and raise Singapore 
dollar funds from their 
shareholders and companies 
controlled by their shareholders, 
banks and finance companies. This 
measure is not discriminatory. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 102 
  
  Finance companies     
No new finance company licences 
will be granted. 
Unbound for foreign acquisition of 
shares in finance companies and 
transfer or sale of foreign 
shareholdings in existing finance 
companies to foreign parties. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 103 
  
  All finance companies, local and     
foreign-owned, can only conduct 
Singapore dollar business. With 
MAS' prior approval, eligible 
finance companies can also deal in 
foreign currencies, gold or other 
precious metals, and acquire 
foreign currency stocks, shares or 
debt/convertible securities. 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
the horizontal section. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 104 
  
(b)  Lending of all types including  1) Unbound  1) None   
consumer credit, mortgage  2) None  2) None 
credit, factoring and 
3) These measures are also  3) As indicated in the market 
financing of commercial 
limitations on national treatment:  access column. 
transaction 
(i)  Unbound for establishment  4) Unbound except as indicated in 
of off-premise cash  the horizontal section. 
dispensing machines for 
credit and charge cards 
issuers as a means of 
circumventing quantitative 
restrictions on customer 
service locations. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 105 
  
  Financial institutions     
extending Singapore dollar 
(SGD) credit facilities 
exceeding SGD 5 million per 
entity to non-resident 
financial entities or arranging 
SGD equity or bond issues for 
non-residents, must ensure 
that where the SGD proceeds 
are to be used outside 
Singapore, they are swapped 
or converted into foreign 
currency upon draw-down or 
before remittance abroad. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 106 
  
  Financial entities shall not     
extend SGD credit facilities to 
non-resident financial 
entities if there is reason to 
believe that the SGD 
proceeds may be used for 
SGD currency speculation. 
The term "non-resident" is as 
defined in MAS Notice 757, 
issued under the Banking Act. 
Each offshore bank's lending 
in Singapore dollars to 
residents shall not exceed 
SGD 500 m in aggregate. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 107 
  
  Offshore banks should not     
use financial leasing activities 
or their related merchant 
banks to circumvent the 
SGD 500 m lending limit. 
(ii)  Establishment of credit 
companies which do not 
conduct activities requiring 
MAS' approval is allowed. 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
horizontal section. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 108 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 109 
  
(f)  Trading for own account or  1) Unbound except for trading in  1) None   
for account of customers,  products listed in B(f) for own  2) None 
whether on an exchange, in  account. Trading in money market 
3) None except as indicated for 
an over-the counter market  instruments, foreign exchange, as 
activity B(b) above. 
or otherwise, the following:  well as exchange rate and interest 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
–  money market instruments  rate instruments can be conducted 
the horizontal section. 
(including cheques, bills,  with financial institutions only. 
certificates of deposit)  2) None 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 110 
  
–  foreign exchange  3) The offer of derivative products     
–  derivative products, including  involving the Singapore dollar is 
financial futures and options  subject to the requirement 
indicated in B(b)3)(i). 
–  exchange rate and interest 
rate instruments, including  Moneychangers, except where the 
money changing business is 
swaps and forward rate 
agreements  conducted by banks and merchant 
banks and finance companies, are 
–  transferable securities 
required to be majority owned by 
–  other negotiable instruments 
Singapore citizens (i.e. ownership 
and financial assets, including 
of more than 50 % shareholding). 
bullion 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
the horizontal section. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 111 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 112 
  
(i)  Asset management, such as  1) Unbound  1) Unbound   
cash or portfolio  2) None  2) None 
management, all forms of 
3) These measures are also  3) None 
collective investment 
limitations on national treatment.  4) Unbound except as indicated in 
management, pension fund 
None, except:  the horizontal section. 
management, custodial, 
depository and trust services  (a)  Only the Central Depository 
Pte Ltd and its successor 
body is authorised to provide 
custodial depository services 
for book-entry securities. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 113 
  
  (b)  In considering the admission     
of Fund Management 
Companies (FMCs) under the 
Central Provident Fund 
Investment Scheme (CPFIS), 
the Central Provident Fund 
Board takes into 
consideration the following 
factors: 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 114 
  
  (i)  whether the FMC has a     
minimum one-year 
track record as a capital 
markets services 
licence holder under 
the Securities and 
Futures Act, Cap. 289 
(or its equivalent under 
the Securities Industry 
Act, Act 15 of 1986) in 
the fund management 
industry in Singapore 
while the group as a 
whole has a minimum 
of 3 years track record 
in fund management; 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 115 
  
  (ii)  whether the FMC     
manages at least 
SGD 500 million worth 
of funds in Singapore; 
and 
(iii)  whether the FMC has a 
minimum of 3 fund 
managers, one of 
whom must have at 
least 5 years of fund 
management 
experience. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 116 
  
  For the purpose of this limitation,     
the definition of "fund manager" 
shall include portfolio managers, 
research analysts and traders. 
The establishment or operation of 
securities and futures markets as 
exchanges, exempt exchanges or 
recognised trading system 
providers, is subject to the 
authorisation, including the 
imposition of conditions for 
authorisation, by MAS or its 
successor body. 
4) Unbound except as indicated in 
the horizontal section. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 117 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 118 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 119 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 120 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 121 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 122 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 123 
  
Food serving services, except meal  1) None, except that only a  1) None, except that only a   
serving services in eating facilities  Singapore national or permanent  Singapore national or permanent 
run by the government19 (642**)  resident can apply for a licence to  resident can apply for a licence to 
Beverage serving services for  operate a food establishment in  operate a food establishment in 
consumption on the premises20  places such as hawker centres,  places such as hawker centres, 
(643**)  restaurants and cafes, in their  restaurants and cafes, in their 
personal capacity.  personal capacity. 
2) None  2) None 
                                                           
19  Excluding food serving services in air and maritime transport services. 
20  Excluding food serving services in air and maritime transport services. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 124 
  
  3) None, except that only a  3) None, except that only a   
Singapore national or permanent  Singapore national or permanent 
resident can apply for a licence to  resident can apply for a licence to 
operate a food establishment in  operate a food establishment in 
places such as hawker centres,  places such as hawker centres, 
restaurants and cafes, in their  restaurants and cafes, in their 
personal capacity. To provide food  personal capacity. To provide food 
and/or beverage catering services  and/or beverage catering services 
in Singapore, a foreign service  in Singapore, a foreign service 
supplier must incorporate as a  supplier must incorporate as a 
limited company in Singapore, and  limited company in Singapore, and 
apply for the food establishment  apply for the food establishment 
license in the name of the limited  license in the name of the limited 
company.  company. 
4) Unbound except as indicated in  4) Unbound 
the horizontal section 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 125 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 126 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 127 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 128 
  
International transport (freight and  1) None  1) None  In accordance with the decisions 
passengers) excluding cabotage  2) None  2) None  made at the WTO Negotiating 
transport (7211**, 7212**)  Group on Maritime Transport 
3) None except on the registration  3) None except on the registration 
Services, where the following 
of Singapore-flag ships as specified  of Singapore-flag ships as specified 
services are not otherwise covered 
in the Merchant Shipping Act  in the Merchant Shipping Act 
by the obligation enshrined in (ii) of 
(Cap. 179)21  (Cap. 179)22 
subparagraph (c) of Article XXVIII of 
4) Unbound except as indicated in  4) Unbound 
the General Agreement on Trade in 
the horizontal section; unbound for 
Services in Annex 1B to the WTO 
intra-corporate transfers of ships' 
Agreement, they are made to 
crews 
international maritime transport 
operators on reasonable and 
non-discriminatory terms and 
conditions: 
                                                           
21  To register a Singapore-flagged ship, the ship owner must be Singapore citizen(s), or Singapore incorporated company(ies) with a minimum paid-up capital of SGD 50 000. 
22  To register a Singapore-flagged ship, the ship owner must be Singapore citizen(s), or Singapore incorporated company(ies) with a minimum paid-up capital of SGD 50 000. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 129 
  
      –  pilotage; 
–  towing and tug assistance; 
–  provisioning, fuelling and 
watering; 
–  garbage collection and ballast 
waste disposal; 
–  port captain's services; 
–  navigation aids; 
–  emergency repair facilities; 
–  anchorage; and 
–  other shore-based 
operational services essential 
to ship operations, including 
communications, water and 
electrical supplies. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 130 
  
                                                           
23  "Maritime agency services" (or "Shipping agency services") means activities consisting in representing, within a given geographic area, as an agent the business interests of 
one or more shipping lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes: 
marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies, acquisition and 
resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; 
acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. However, this subsector does not include any service comprised in 
"maritime cargo handling services", "container station and depot services", "freight forwarding services" and "customs clearance services". 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 131 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 132 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 133 
  
                                                           
24  "Container station and depot services" means activities consisting of storing containers with a view to their stuffing/stripping, repairing and making them available for 
shipments. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 134 
  
                                                           
25  "Maritime freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of 
transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information, including customs clearance. The latter means the activities consisting 
in carrying out on behalf of another customs formalities concerning import, export or through transport of cargoes, whether this service in the main activity of the service 
provider or a usual complement of its main activity but excludes the exercise of statutory powers by Customs officers. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 135 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 136 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 137 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 138 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 139 
  
 
   
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 140 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 141 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 142 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 143 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 144 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 145 
  
(a)  Electricity and gas (ISIC rev 3: 401, 402)  None, except:   
(a)  Power producers shall only sell power through the 
Singapore electricity wholesale market and shall 
not be allowed to sell directly to consumers. 
The amount of power supplied cumulatively by 
power producers located outside of Singapore to 
Singapore's wholesale power market shall not 
exceed 600 MW. 
(b)  only SP Services Ltd and its successor body shall 
be allowed to supply electricity to: 
(i)  All household consumers of electricity; 
(ii)  Non-household consumers of electricity 
whose Average monthly consumption is 
below 10 000 kWh; and 
(iii)  Consumers whose electricity is supplied at 
single phase low voltage. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 146 
  
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 147 
  
ATTACHMENT TO APPENDIX 8-B-1: 
TYPES OF SOCIAL SERVICES EXCLUDED FROM SINGAPORE'S  
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
1.  Statutory supervision services with accommodation for the following types of clients 
(9331): 
 
(a)  women and girls detained in a place of safety under Section 160 of the Women's 
Charter (Cap. 353) (93312); 
 
(b)  children detained in a place of safety under Section 8 of the Children & Young 
Persons Act (Cap. 38) (the "CYP Act")(93312); 
 
(c)  children and young persons detained in a place of detention under Section 
44(1)(f) CYP Act, or on probation to an approved school26 under Section 44(1)(g) 
of the  CYP Act (93319); 
 
(d)  children and young persons admitted to an approved home for statutory 
supervision under Section 49 (ii) of CYP Act (93312); and 
 
(e)  persons placed on probation with the requirement of residence in an approved 
institution under Section 12 of the Probation of Offenders Act (Cap. 252) 
(93319). 
 
   
                                                           
26  The term "approved school" used in Section 44(1) (g) of the CYP Act denotes a remand home for young 
offenders, and not a mainstream educational institution. Young offenders are detained in an "approved 
school" for rehabilitation rather than for formal education. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 148 
  
2.  Statutory supervision services without accommodation for the following types of 
clients (9332): 
 
(a)  children and young persons placed under supervision of an appointed welfare 
officer under Section 49(i) of the CYP Act (93329); and 
 
(b)  persons placed on probation without the requirement of residence in an 
approved institution under Section 5 of the Probation of Offenders Act (93329). 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-1- 149 
 