 
Appendix 8-A-2 
 
 
UNION 
 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS IN CONFORMITY WITH ARTICLE 8.12  
(SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS) 
 
(ESTABLISHMENT) 
 
1.  The list of commitments below indicates the economic activities liberalised pursuant to 
Article 8.12 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) and, by means of reservations, the market 
access and national treatment limitations that apply to establishments and entrepreneurs of 
Singapore in those activities. The list below is composed of the following elements: 
 
(a)  the first column, which indicates the sector or subsector in which the commitment is 
undertaken by the Union, and the scope of liberalisation to which the reservations 
apply; and 
 
(b)  the second column, which describes the applicable reservations. 
 
Establishment in sectors or subsectors covered by this Agreement and not mentioned in the 
list of commitments below is not committed. 
 
   
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 1 
  
2.  The list of commitments below does not include measures relating to qualification 
requirements and procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements and 
procedures that do not constitute a limitation on market access or a national treatment 
within the meaning of Articles 8.10 (Market Access) and 8.11 (National Treatment). Those 
measures (e.g. requirements to obtain a license, universal service obligations, requirements 
to obtain recognition of qualifications in regulated sectors, requirements to pass specific 
examinations, including language examinations, and non-discriminatory requirements that 
certain activities may not be carried out in environmental protected zones or areas of 
particular historic and artistic interest), even if not listed, apply in any case to establishments 
and entrepreneurs of Singapore. 
 
3.  In accordance with paragraph 2(a) of Article 8.1 (Objective and Scope), the list of 
commitments below does not include measures concerning subsidies granted by a Party. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding Article 8.10 (Market Access), non-discriminatory requirements as regards 
the type of legal form of an establishment do not need to be specified in the below list of 
commitments on establishment in order to be maintained or adopted by the Union. 
 
5.  The rights and obligations arising from the list below shall have no self-executing effect, and 
thus confer no rights directly on natural or juridical persons. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 2 
  
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 3 
  
6.  The term "investor", as used in this list of commitments, shall be understood as the term of 
"entrepreneur" defined in paragraph (c) of Article 8.8 (Definitions). 
 
7.  Where the Union maintains a reservation that requires that a service supplier be a citizen, 
national, permanent resident or resident of its territory as a condition to the supply of a 
service in its territory, a reservation listed in the list of commitments in Appendix 8-A-3 
pursuant to Article 8.13 (Scope and Definitions) with respect to temporary movement of 
natural persons shall operate as a reservation with respect to the commitments on 
establishment taken in this Appendix in conformity with Article 8.12 (Schedule of Specific 
Commitments), to the extent applicable. 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 4 
  
ALL SECTORS  Real estate 
All Member States except AT, BG, CY, CZ, DK, EE, EL, FI, HR, HU, IE, IT, LV, LT, MT, PL, RO, 
SI, SK: None 
AT: The acquisition, purchase, rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and 
juridical persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) 
which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected 
or not. 
BG: Foreign natural and juridical persons (incl. through a branch) cannot acquire 
ownership of land. Bulgarian juridical persons with foreign participation cannot acquire 
ownership of agricultural land. 
Foreign juridical persons and foreign citizens with permanent residence abroad can 
acquire ownership of buildings and limited property rights1 in real estate, subject to the 
permission of the Ministry of Finance. The requirement of permission does not apply to 
persons who have made investments in Bulgaria. 
Foreign citizens with permanent residence abroad, foreign juridical persons, and 
companies in which foreign participation ensures a majority in adopting decisions or in 
which foreign participation blocks the adoption of decisions, can acquire real estate 
property rights in specific geographic regions designated by the Council of Ministers 
subject to permission. 
                                                           
1  The Bulgarian property law recognizes the following limited property rights: right to use, right to build, right to raise a superstructure and servitudes. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 5 
  
  CY: Unbound. 
CZ: Agricultural and forest land can be acquired by foreign natural and juridical persons 
with permanent residence in the Czech Republic. Specific rules apply to the agricultural 
and forest land in the state ownership. 
DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities. 
Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities. 
EE: Unbound for acquisition of agricultural and forest land.2 
EL: According to Law No. 1892/90, permission from the Minister of Defence is needed for 
a citizen to acquire land in areas near borders. According to administrative practices, 
permission is easily granted for direct investment. 
FI: (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of natural persons who do not enjoy regional 
citizenship in Åland, and restrictions on the right of juridical persons, to acquire and hold 
real property on the Åland Islands without the permission of the competent authorities 
of the islands. Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services 
by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any juridical 
person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. 
                                                           
2  As regards services sectors, these limitations do not go beyond the limitations reflected in the existing GATS commitments. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 6 
  
  HR: Unbound in relation to acquisition of real estate by services suppliers not established 
and incorporated in Croatia. Acquisition of real estate necessary for the supply of services 
by companies established and incorporated in Croatia as legal persons is allowed. 
Acquisition of real estate necessary for the supply of services by branches requires the 
approval of the Ministry of Justice. Agricultural land can be acquired by foreigner juridical 
or natural persons. 
HU: Limitations on acquisition of land and real estate by foreign investors.3 
IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any 
interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals. Where such 
land is for industrial use (other than agricultural industry), this requirement is waived 
subject to certification to this effect from the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and 
Employment. This law does not apply to land within the boundaries of cities and towns. 
IT: The purchase of real estate by foreign natural and juridical persons is subject to a 
condition of reciprocity. 
LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land; land lease not exceeding 99 years 
permitted. 
LT: Unbound for acquisition of land.4 
                                                           
3  As regards services sectors, these limitations do not go beyond the limitations reflected in the existing GATS commitments. 
4  As regards services sectors, these limitations do not go beyond the limitations reflected in the existing GATS commitments. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 7 
  
                                                           
5  According to the Law on Commercial Companies, a branch established in Slovenia is not considered a juridical person, but as regards its operation, its treatment is 
equal to that of a subsidiary, which is in line with Article XXVIII paragraph (g) of the GATS. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 8 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 9 
  
ALL SECTORS  Types of establishment 
EU: Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Singapore's companies) formed in accordance 
with the law of the Member States of the Union and having their registered office, central 
administration or principal place of business within the Union is not extended to 
branches or agencies established in the Member States of the Union by Singaporean 
companies.8 
                                                           
6  Given that public utilities often also exist at the sub-central level, detailed and exhaustive sector-specific listing is not practical. To facilitate comprehension, specific 
footnotes in this list of commitments will indicate in an illustrative and non-exhaustive way those sectors where public utilities play a major role. 
7  This limitation does not apply to telecommunications services and to computer and related services. 
8  In accordance with Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, these subsidiaries are considered as juridical persons of the Union. To the 
extent that they have a continuous and effective link with the economy of the Union, they are beneficiaries of the Union's internal market, which includes, inter alia, 
the freedom to establish and to provide services in all Member States of the Union. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 10 
  
  BG: The establishment of branches is subject to authorisation. 
EE: At least half of the members of the management board shall have their residence in 
the Union. 
FI: A Singaporean carrying on trade as a partner in a Finnish limited or general 
partnership needs a trade permit and has to be permanently resident in the Union. For all 
sectors except telecommunications services, nationality and residency are required for at 
least half of the ordinary and deputy members of the board of directors; however 
exemptions may be granted to certain companies. For telecommunications services, 
permanent residency is required for half of the founders and half of the members of the 
board of directors. If the founder is a juridical person, that juridical person is also subject 
to a residency requirement. If a Singaporean organisation intends to carry on business or 
trade by establishing a branch in Finland, a trade permit is required. A permission to act 
as a founder of a limited company is required for a Singaporean organisation or a natural 
person who is not a citizen of the Union. 
IT: Access to industrial, commercial and artisanal activities is subject to a residence 
permit and specific authorisation to pursue the activities. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 11 
  
  BG, PL: The scope of operations of a representative office may only encompass 
advertising and promotion of the foreign parent company represented by the office. 
PL: With the exception of financial services, unbound for branches. Singaporean investors 
can undertake and conduct economic activity only in the form of a limited partnership, 
limited joint-stock partnership, limited liability company, or joint-stock company (in the 
case of legal services only in the form of registered partnership and limited partnership). 
RO: The sole administrator or the chairman of the board of administration, as well as half 
of the total number of administrators of the commercial companies, shall be Romanian 
citizens unless otherwise stipulated in the company contract or its statutes. The majority 
of the commercial companies' auditors and their deputies shall be Romanian citizens. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 12 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 13 
  
ALL SECTORS  Investment 
DK: The establishment of branches by foreign companies outside the Union depend on 
whether the relevant country has agreed in an international agreement. Retail planning 
in Denmark is regulated by the Planning Act and has criteria for the size and location of 
stores for retail business. Regulations on size and location are only based on 
environmental matters. Therefore foreign business of retail does not need a special 
authorisation or permit before investing in Demark. 
ES: Investment in Spain by foreign governments and foreign public entities9, directly or 
through companies or other entities controlled directly or indirectly by foreign 
governments, needs prior authorisation by the government. 
BG: In enterprises where the public (State or municipal) share in the equity capital 
exceeds 30 per cent, the transfer of those shares to third parties needs authorisation. 
Certain economic activities related to the exploitation or use of State or public property 
are subject to concessions granted under the provisions of the Concessions Act. Foreign 
investors cannot participate in privatisation. Foreign investors and Bulgarian juridical 
persons with controlling Singaporean participation require permission for: 
                                                           
9  Such investment tends to imply not only economic interests, but also non-economic interests for these entities. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 14 
  
  (a)  the prospecting, development or extraction of natural resources from the territorial 
seas, the continental shelf or the exclusive economic zone; and 
(b)  the acquisition of controlling equity interests in companies engaged in any of the 
activities specified under (a). 
FR: Singaporean purchases exceeding 33,33 per cent of the shares of capital or the voting 
rights in existing French enterprises, or 20 per cent in publicly quoted French companies, 
are subject to the following regulations: 
–  investments of less than 7,6 million euros in French enterprises that have a 
turnover not exceeding 76 million euros are free, subject to a 15-day period 
following prior notification and verification that these amounts are met; 
–  after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly 
granted for other investments unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in 
exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment. 
Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, 
determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to 
the public. For establishing in certain commercial, industrial or artisanal activities, a 
specific authorisation is needed if the managing director is not a holder of a permanent 
residence permit. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 15 
  
                                                           
10  Total sum of assets, or total sum of debts plus capital. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 16 
  
                                                           
11  Advisory and consultancy services related to agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(f) and 6.F.(g). 
12  Advisory and consultancy services related to agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(f) and 6.F.(g). 
13  Advisory and consultancy services related to agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(f) and 6.F.(g). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 17 
  
                                                           
14  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
15  Does not include services incidental to mining rendered on a fee or contract basis at oil and gas fields which are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.A. 
16  A juridical person is controlled by other natural or juridical person(s) if the latter has/have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise legally direct its 
actions. In particular, ownership of more than 50 per cent of the equity interests in a juridical person shall be deemed to constitute control. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 18 
  
                                                           
17  This sector does not include advisory services incidental to manufacturing, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(h). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 19 
  
                                                           
18  The sector is limited to manufacturing activities. It does not include activities which are audiovisual-related or present a cultural content. 
19  Publishing and printing on a fee or contract basis is to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(p). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 20 
  
                                                           
20  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
21  A juridical person is controlled by other natural or juridical person(s) if the latter has/have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise legally direct its 
actions. In particular, ownership of more than 50 per cent of the equity interests in a juridical person shall be deemed to constitute control. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 21 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 22 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 23 
  
                                                           
22  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
23  Does not include operation of electricity transmission and distribution systems on a fee or contract basis, which are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 24 
  
                                                           
24  Does not include transportation of natural gas and gaseous fuels via pipelines, transmission and distribution of gas on a fee or contract basis, and sales of natural gas 
and gaseous fuels, which are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES. 
25  Does not include transmission and distribution of steam and hot water on a fee or contract basis and sales of steam and hot water, which are to be found in ENERGY 
SERVICES. 
26  A juridical person is controlled by other natural or juridical person(s) if the latter has/have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise legally direct its 
actions. In particular, ownership of more than 50 per cent of the equity interests in a juridical person shall be deemed to constitute control. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 25 
  
(a)  Legal Services27 (CPC 861)28  AT: Singaporean lawyers' (who must be fully qualified in Singapore) equity participation 
and shares in the operating results of any law firm may not exceed 25 per cent. They may 
not have decisive influence in decision making. 
                                                           
27  Due to the gradual liberalisation process of Singapore's legal services market, Singapore cannot yet commit to further market access in this sector. The Parties will, 
with a view to granting further market access, review their commitments in legal services no later than two years after entry into force of this Agreement. The 
Parties may, by decisions in the Committee on Services, Investment and Government Procurement established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees) 
amend either Party's schedules in this respect. 
28  Includes legal advisory services, legal representational services, legal arbitration and conciliation/mediation services, and legal documentation and certification 
services. Provision of legal services is only authorised in respect of public international law, Union law and the law of any jurisdiction where the service supplier or its 
personnel is qualified to practice as a lawyer, and, like the provision of other services, is subject to licensing requirements and procedures applicable in the Member 
States of the Union. For lawyers providing legal services in respect of public international law and foreign law, these licensing requirements and procedures may 
take, inter alia, the form of compliance with local codes of ethics, use of home title (unless recognition with the host title has been obtained), insurance 
requirements, simple registration with the host country Bar or a simplified admission to the host country Bar through an aptitude test and a legal or professional 
domicile in the host country. Legal services in respect of Union law shall in principle be carried out by or through a fully qualified lawyer admitted to the Bar in a 
Member State of the Union acting personally, and legal services in respect of the law of a Member State of the Union shall in principle be carried out by or through a 
fully qualified lawyer admitted to the Bar in that Member State acting personally. Full admission to the Bar in the relevant Member State of the Union might 
therefore be necessary for representation before courts and other competent authorities in the Union since it involves practice of Union and national procedural 
law. However, in some Member States, foreign lawyers not fully admitted to the Bar are allowed to represent in civil proceedings a party being a national of or 
belonging to the State in which the lawyer is entitled to practice. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 26 
  
excluding legal advisory and legal  BE: Quotas apply for representation before the "Cour de cassation" in non-criminal cases 
documentations and certification services  FR: Lawyers' access to the profession of "avocat auprès de la Cour de Cassation" and 
provided by legal professionals entrusted  "avocat auprès du Conseil d'Etat" is subject to quotas. 
with public functions, such as notaries, 
DK: Only lawyers with a Danish license to practice, and law firms registered in Denmark, 
"huissiers de justice" or other "officiers 
may own shares in a Danish law firm. Only lawyers with a Danish license to practise may 
publics et ministériels". 
sit on the board or be part of the management of a Danish law firm. Requirement for a 
Danish legal examination in order to obtain a Danish licence. 
FR: Some types of legal form ("association d'avocats" and "société en participation 
d'avocat") are reserved to lawyers fully admitted to the Bar in France. In a law firm 
providing services in respect of French or Union law, at least 75 per cent of the partners 
holding 75 per cent of the shares shall be lawyers fully admitted to the Bar in France. 
HR:. Representation of parties before courts can be practised only by the members of the 
Bar Council of Croatia (Croatian title "odvjetnici"). Citizenship requirement for 
membership in the Bar Council. 
HU: Commercial presence should take the form of partnership with a Hungarian barrister 
(ügyvéd) or a barrister's office (ügyvédi iroda), or a representative office. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 27 
  
(b)  2. Auditing services (CPC 86211 and 86212  AT: Singaporean auditors' (who must be authorised according to the law of Singapore) 
other than accounting services)  equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may 
not exceed 25 per cent, if they are not members of the Austrian Professional Body. 
CY: Access is subject to an economic needs test. Main criteria: the employment situation 
in the subsector. 
CZ and SK: At least 60 per cent of capital share or voting rights are reserved to nationals. 
DK: In order to enter into partnerships with Danish authorised accountants, foreign 
accountants have to obtain permission from the Danish Commerce and Companies 
Agency. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 28 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 29 
  
                                                           
29  Does not include legal advisory and legal representational services on tax matters, which are to be found under 1.A.(a) Legal Services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 30 
  
(h)  Medical (including psychologists) and  CY, EE, FI, MT: Unbound. 
Dental services (CPC 9312 and part of CPC 
AT: Unbound except for dental services and for psychologists and psychotherapists, and 
85201)  none for dental services and for psychologists and psychotherapists. 
DE: An economic needs test when medical doctors and dentists are authorised to treat 
members of public insurance schemes. Main criteria: shortage of doctors and dentists in 
the given region. 
FR: While other types of legal form are available for investors of the Union, Singaporean 
investors only have access to the legal forms of "société d'exercice liberal" and "société 
civile professionnelle". 
HR: All persons providing services directly to patients/treating patients need a licence 
from the professional chamber. 
LV: Economic needs test. Main criteria: shortage of doctors and dentists in the given 
region.  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 31 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 32 
  
(j)  2. Services provided by Nurses,  AT: Foreign investors are only allowed in the following activities: nurses, physiotherapists, 
Physiotherapists and Paramedical  occupational therapists, logotherapists, dieticians and nutricians. 
Personnel (part of CPC 93191)  BG, MT: Unbound. 
FI, SI: Unbound for physiotherapists and paramedical personnel. 
FR: While other types of legal form are available for investors of the Union, Singaporean 
investors only have access to the legal forms of "société d'exercice liberal" and "société 
civile professionnelle". 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 33 
  
                                                           
30  The supply of pharmaceuticals to the general public, like the provision of other services, is subject to licensing and qualification requirements and procedures 
applicable in the Member States of the Union. As a general rule, this activity is reserved to pharmacists. In some Member States, only the supply of prescription 
drugs is reserved to pharmacists. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 34 
  
                                                           
31  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
32  Part of CPC 85201, which is to be found under 6.A.(h). Medical and Dental services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 35 
  
                                                           
33  The service involved relates to the profession of real estate agent and does not affect any rights and/or restrictions on natural and juridical persons purchasing real 
estate. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 36 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 37 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 38 
  
                                                           
34  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to technical testing and analysis services, which are compulsory for the granting of marketing authorisations or for 
utilisation authorisations (e.g. car inspection, food inspection). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 39 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 40 
  
                                                           
35  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to certain activities related to mining (e.g. minerals, oil, and gas). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 41 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 42 
  
                                                           
36  Maintenance and repair services of transport equipment (CPC 6112, 6122, 8867 and CPC 8868) are to be found under 6.F.(l)1. to 6.F.(l)4. Maintenance and repair 
services of office machinery and equipment including computers (CPC 845) are to be found under 6.B. Computer and Related Services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 43 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 44 
  
                                                           
37  Does not include printing services, which fall under CPC 88442 and are to be found under 6.F.(p). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 45 
  
A.  Postal and Courier Services (Services  None. 
relating to the handling38 of postal items39 
according to the following list of 
subsectors, whether for domestic or 
foreign destinations: 
(i)  Handling of addressed written 
communications on any kind of 
physical medium40, including Hybrid 
mail service and Direct mail; 
(ii)  Handling of addressed parcels and 
packages41; 
                                                           
38  "Handling" refers to activities such as clearance, sorting, transport and delivery. 
39  "Postal item" refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. 
40  E.g. letters, postcards. 
41  Books and catalogues are included hereunder. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 46 
  
(iii)  Handling of addressed press   
products42; 
(iv)  Handling of items referred to in (i) to 
(iii) above as registered or insured 
mail; 
(v)  Express delivery services43 for items 
referred to in (i) to (iii) above; 
(vi)  Handling of non-addressed items; 
and 
(vii)  Document exchange44. 
                                                           
42  Journals, newspapers and periodicals. 
43  Express delivery services may include, in addition to greater speed and reliability, value added elements such as collection from point of origin, personal delivery to 
addressee, tracing and tracking, possibility of changing the destination and addressee in transit, and confirmation of receipt. 
44  Provision of means, including the supply of ad hoc premises as well as transportation by a third party, allowing self-delivery by mutual exchange of postal items 
between users subscribing to this service. "Postal item" refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 47 
  
                                                           
45  "Items of correspondence" means a communication in written form on any kind of physical medium to be conveyed and delivered at the address indicated by the 
sender on the item itself or on its wrapping. Books, catalogues, newspapers and periodicals are not regarded as items of correspondence. 
46  Transportation of postal and courier items on own account by any land mode. 
47  Transportation of mail on own account by air. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 48 
  
                                                           
48  These services do not include on-line information and/or data processing (including transaction processing) (part of CPC 843) which is to be found under 6.B. 
Computer and Related Services. 
49  Broadcasting is defined as the uninterrupted chain of transmission via wired or wireless means (regardless of the location of the originating transmission) required 
for the reception and/or display of aural and/or visual programme signals by all or any part of the public, but does not cover contribution links between operators. 
50  For clarification purposes, some Member States of the Union maintain public participation in certain telecommunication operators. Those Member States reserve their 
rights to maintain such public participation in the future. This is not a market access limitation. In Belgium, government participation and voting rights in Belgacom are 
freely determined under legislative powers as is presently the case under the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of government-owned economic enterprises. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 49 
  
                                                           
51  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to the distribution of chemical products, of pharmaceuticals, of products for medical use such as medical and 
surgical devices, medical substances and objects for medical use, of military equipment and precious metals (and stones) and, in some Member States of the Union, 
also to the distribution of tobacco and tobacco products and of alcoholic beverages. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 50 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 51 
  
C.  Retailing Services53  ES, FR, IT: State monopoly on tobacco. 
Retailing Services of motor vehicles,  BE, BG, DK, FR, IT, MT, PT: Authorisation for department stores (in the case of FR only for 
motorcycles and snowmobiles and parts  large stores) is subject to an economic needs test. Main criteria: number of and impact on 
and accessories thereof (CPC 61112, part  existing stores, population density, geographic spread, impact on traffic conditions and 
of CPC 6113 and part of CPC 6121)  creation of new employment. 
Retailing Services of telecommunication  IE, SE: Unbound for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages. 
terminal equipment (part of CPC 7542) 
                                                           
52  These services, which include CPC 62271, are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.D. 
53  Does not include maintenance and repair services which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.B. and 6.F.(l). 
Does not include retailing services of energy products which are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.E. and 19.F. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 52 
  
A.  Primary Education Services (CPC 921)  EU: Participation of private operators in the education network is subject to concession. 
B.  Secondary Education Services (CPC 922)  AT: Unbound for higher education services and for adult schools by means of radio or 
C.  Higher Education Services (CPC 923)  television broadcasting. 
D.  Adult Education Services (CPC 924)  BG: Unbound for the supply of primary and/or secondary education services by foreign 
natural persons and associations, and for the supply of higher education services. 
                                                           
54  Retail sales of pharmaceutical, medical and orthopaedic goods are to be found under PROFESSIONAL SERVICES in 6.A.(k). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 53 
  
  CZ, SK: Nationality condition for the majority of members of the board. Unbound for the 
supply of higher education services except for post-secondary technical and vocational 
education services (CPC 92310). 
CY, FI, MT, RO, SE: Unbound. 
EL: A nationality condition for the majority of members of the board in primary and 
secondary schools. Unbound for higher education institutions granting recognised State 
diplomas. 
ES, IT: Economic needs test for establishing private universities authorised to issue 
recognised diplomas or degrees. The relevant procedure involves an advice of the 
Parliament. Main criteria: population and density of existing establishments. 
HR: Unbound for Primary Education Services (CPC 921). For Secondary Education 
Services: None for legal persons. 
HU, SK: The number of schools being established may be limited by local authorities (or in 
the case of high schools and other higher education institutions by central authorities) in 
charge of granting licenses. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 54 
  
11.  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES55  None. 
A.  Waste Water Services (CPC 9401)56 
B.  Solid/hazardous waste management, 
excluding cross-border transport of 
hazardous waste 
(a)  Refuse Disposal Services (CPC 9402) 
                                                           
55  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
56  Corresponds to sewage services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 55 
  
                                                           
57  Corresponds to cleaning services of exhaust gases. 
58  Corresponds to parts of nature and landscape protection services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 56 
  
A.  Insurance and insurance-related services  AT: The licence for branch offices of Singaporean insurers shall be denied if the insurer in 
Singapore does not have a legal form corresponding or comparable to a joint stock 
company or a mutual insurance association. 
BG, ES: Before establishing a branch or agency in Bulgaria or Spain to provide certain 
classes of insurance, a Singaporean insurer must have been authorised to operate in the 
same classes of insurance in Singapore for at least five years. 
EL: The right of establishment does not cover the creation of representative offices or 
other permanent presence of insurance companies, except where such offices are 
established as agencies, branches or head offices. 
FI: At least one half of the promoters and members of the board of directors and the 
supervisory board of an insurance company shall have their place of residence in the 
Union, unless the competent authorities have granted an exemption. Singaporean 
insurers cannot get a licence in Finland as a branch to carry on statutory pension 
insurance. 
IT: The authorisation of the establishment of branches is ultimately subject to the 
evaluation of supervisory authorities. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 57 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 58 
  
B.  Banking and other financial services  EU: Only firms having their registered office in the Union can act as depositories of the 
(excluding insurance)  assets of investment funds. The establishment of a specialised management company, 
having its head office and registered office in the same Member State of the Union, is 
required to perform the activities of management of unit trusts and investment 
companies. 
BG: Pension insurance shall be implemented through participation in incorporated 
pension insurance companies (no branches). Permanent residency in Bulgaria is required 
for the chairperson of the management board and the chairperson of the board of 
directors. 
CY: Only members (brokers) of the Cyprus Stock Exchange can undertake business 
pertaining to securities brokerage in Cyprus. A brokerage firm may only be registered as a 
member of the Cyprus Stock Exchange if it has been established and registered in 
accordance with the Companies Law of Cyprus (no branches). 
HR: None, except for settlement and clearing services where the Central Depositary 
Agency (CDA) is the sole supplier in Croatia. Access to the services of the CDA will be 
granted to non-residents on a non-discriminatory basis. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 59 
  
  HU: Branches of Singaporean institutions are not allowed to provide asset management 
services for private pension funds or management of venture capital. The board of a 
financial institution should include at least two members who are Hungarian citizens, are 
residents in the meaning of the relevant foreign exchange regulations and have 
permanent residency in Hungary for at least one year. 
IE: In the case of collective investment schemes constituted as unit trusts and variable 
capital companies (other than undertakings for collective investment in transferable 
securities, UCITS), the trustee/depository and management company is required to be 
incorporated in Ireland or in another Member State of the Union (no branches). In the 
case of an investment limited partnership, at least one general partner must be 
incorporated in Ireland. To become a member of a stock exchange in Ireland, an entity 
must either (a) be authorised in Ireland, which requires that it be incorporated or be a 
partnership, with a head/registered office in Ireland, or (b) be authorised in another 
Member State of the Union in accordance with the Union directive on investment and 
services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 60 
  
  IT: In order to be authorised to manage the securities settlement system with an 
establishment in Italy, a company is required to be incorporated in Italy (no branches). In 
order to be authorised to manage central securities depository services with an 
establishment in Italy, companies are required to be incorporated in Italy (no branches). 
In the case of collective investment schemes other than UCITS harmonised under the 
legislations of the Union, the trustee/depository is required to be incorporated in Italy or 
in another Member State of the Union and established through a branch in Italy. 
Management companies of UCITS not harmonised under the legislations of the Union are 
also required to be incorporated in Italy (no branches). Only banks, insurance companies, 
investment firms, and companies managing UCITS harmonised under the legislations of 
the Union, having their legal head office in the Union, as well as UCITS incorporated in 
Italy may carry out activity of pension fund resources management. In providing the 
activity of door-to-door selling, intermediaries must utilise authorised financial salesmen 
resident within the territory of a Member State of the Union. Representative offices of 
foreign intermediaries cannot carry out activities aimed at providing investment services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 61 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 62 
  
A.  Hospital Services (CPC 9311)  EU: Participation of private operators in the health and social network is subject to 
B.  Ambulance Services (CPC 93192)  concession. An economic needs test may apply. Main criteria: number of and impact on 
existing establishments, transport infrastructure, population density, geographic spread, 
C.  Residential health facilities other than 
and creation of new employment. 
hospital services (CPC 93193) 
AT, SI: Unbound for ambulance services. 
D.  Social Services (CPC 933) 
BG: Unbound for hospital services, for ambulance services and for residential health 
facilities other than hospital services. 
CY, CZ, FI, MT, SE, SK: Unbound. 
HU: Unbound for social services. 
PL: Unbound for ambulance services, for residential health facilities other than hospital 
services, and for social services. 
BE, UK: Unbound for ambulance services, for residential health facilities other than 
hospital services, and for social services other than convalescent and rest houses and old 
people's homes. 
                                                           
59  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 63 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 64 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 65 
  
                                                           
60  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 66 
  
                                                           
61  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to port services and other maritime transport services requiring the use of the public domain. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 67 
  
                                                           
62  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
63  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 68 
  
(a)  Passenger transportation (CPC 7221 less  EU: Measures based upon existing or future agreements on access to inland waterways 
national cabotage transport64)  (incl. agreements following the Rhine-Main-Danube link) reserve some traffic rights to 
(b)  Freight transportation (CPC 7222 less  operators based in the countries concerned and meeting nationality criteria regarding 
national cabotage transport65)  ownership. Subject to regulations implementing the Mannheim Convention on Rhine 
Shipping. 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, ES, EE, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LT, LU, MT, NL, PL, PT, RO, SK, SI, 
SE, UK: Unbound for the establishment of a registered company for the purpose of 
operating a fleet under the national flag of the State of establishment. 
SK: Unbound for direct branching (incorporation is required). 
                                                           
64  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
65  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 69 
  
                                                           
66  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to rail transport services requiring the use of the public domain. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 70 
  
(a)  Passenger Transportation (CPC 7121 and  EU: Foreign investors cannot provide transport services within a Member State 
CPC 7122)  (cabotage), except for rental of non-scheduled services of buses with operator. 
EU: Economic needs test for taxi services. Main criteria: number of and impact on existing 
establishments, population density, geographic spread, impact on traffic conditions and 
creation of new employment. 
AT: Exclusive rights and/or authorisation can only be granted to nationals of the 
Member States of the Union and to juridical persons of the Union having their 
headquarters in the Union. 
BG: Exclusive rights and/or authorisation can only be granted to nationals of the 
Member States of the Union and to juridical persons of the Union having their 
headquarters in the Union. Unbound for direct branching (incorporation is required). 
FI and LV: Authorisation is required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles. 
LV and SE: Requirement for established entities to use vehicles with national registration. 
ES: Economic needs test for CPC 7122. Main criteria: local demand. 
                                                           
67  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 71 
  
                                                           
68  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies in some Member States. 
69  Part of CPC 71235, which is to be found in COMMUNICATION SERVICES under 2.A Postal and Courier Services of Appendix 8-A-1. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 72 
  
A.  Services auxiliary to Maritime Transport73  AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, ES, EE, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LT, LU, MT, NL, PL, PT, RO, SK, SI, 
(a)  Storage and warehousing Services (part of  SE, UK: Unbound for the establishment of a registered company for the purpose of 
operating a fleet under the national flag of the State of establishment. 
CPC 742) 
                                                           
70  Pipeline transportation of fuels is to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.B. 
71  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
72  Does not include maintenance and repair services of transport equipment, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(l)1. to 6.F.(l)4. 
73  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to port services, to other auxiliary services requiring the use of the public domain, and to pushing and towing 
services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 73 
  
(b)  Customs Clearance Services74  IT: Economic needs test77 for maritime cargo-handling services. Main criteria: number of 
(c)  Container Station and Depot Services75  and impact on existing establishments, population density, geographic spread and 
creation of new employment. Requirement of residency for "raccomandatario 
(d)  Maritime Agency Services76 
marittimo". 
                                                           
74  "Customs clearance services" mean the activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import, export or through 
transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service provider or a usual complement of its main activity. 
75  "Container station and depot services" means activities consisting in storing containers, whether in port areas or inland, with a view to their stuffing/stripping, 
repairing and making them available for shipments. 
76  "Maritime agency services" means activities consisting in representing, within a given geographic area, as an agent the business interests of one or more shipping 
lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes: 
marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies, acquisition 
and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; 
acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. 
77  This measure is applied on a non-discriminatory basis. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 74 
  
(e)  Maritime Freight Forwarding Services78  BG: Unbound for direct branching (incorporation is required).For Maritime Agency 
(f)  Rental of Vessels with Crew (CPC 7213)  Services, Singaporean shipping companies have the right to establish branch offices 
which may act as agents for their principal offices. Services auxiliary to Maritime 
(g)  Pushing and towing services (CPC 7214) 
Transport that require the use of vessels can be provided only by vessels operating under 
(h)  Supporting services for maritime transport 
the Bulgarian flag. Nationality condition. 
(part of CPC 745) 
HR: Unbound for Customs Clearance Services, Container Station and Depot Services, 
(i)  Other supporting and auxiliary services 
Maritime Agency Services and Maritime Freight Forwarding Services. For Maritime Cargo 
(including catering) (part of CPC 749) 
Handling Services, Storage and warehousing Services, Other supporting and auxiliary 
services (including catering), Pushing and towing services and Supporting services for 
maritime transport: None, except that foreign legal person is required to establish a 
company in Croatia which should be granted a concession by the port authority, following 
a public tendering procedure. The number of service suppliers may be limited reflecting 
limitations in port capacity. 
                                                           
78  "Maritime freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the 
acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 75 
  
B.  Services auxiliary to internal waterways  EU: Measures based upon existing or future agreements on access to inland waterways 
transport79  (incl. agreements following the Rhine-Main-Danube link) reserve some traffic rights to 
(a)  Cargo-handling services (part of CPC 741)  operators based in the countries concerned and meeting nationality criteria regarding 
ownership. Subject to regulations implementing the Mannheim Convention on Rhine 
(b)  Storage and warehouse services (part of 
Shipping. 
CPC 742) 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, ES, EE, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LT, LU, MT, NL, PL, PT, RO, SK, SI, 
(c)  Freight transport agency services (part of 
SE, UK: Unbound for the establishment of a registered company for the purpose of 
CPC 748) 
operating a fleet under the national flag of the State of establishment. 
                                                           
79  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to port services, to other auxiliary services requiring the use of the public domain and to pushing and towing 
services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 76 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 77 
  
                                                           
80  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies when the services require the use of the public domain. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 78 
  
                                                           
81  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies when the services require the use of the public domain. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 79 
  
                                                           
82  Services auxiliary to pipeline transportation of fuels are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.C. 
83  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 80 
  
                                                           
84  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
85  Includes the following services rendered on a fee or contract basis: advisory and consulting services relating to mining, on-land site preparation, on-land rig 
installation, drilling, drilling bits services, casing and tubular services, mud engineering and supply, solids control, fishing and downhole special operations, wellsite 
geology and drilling control, core taking, well testing, wireline services, supply and operation of completion fluids (brines) supply and installation of completion 
devices, cementing (pressure pumping), stimulation services (fracturing, acidising and pressure pumping), workover and well repair services and plugging and 
abandoning of wells. 
Does not include direct access to or exploitation of natural resources. 
Does not include site preparation work for mining of resources other than oil and gas (CPC 5115), which is to be found under 8. CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED 
ENGINEERING SERVICES. 
86  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 81 
  
                                                           
87  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
88  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
89  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 82 
  
                                                           
90  Except for consulting services, the horizontal limitation on public utilities applies. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 83 
  
 
                                                           
91  Therapeutical massages and thermal cure services are to be found under 6.A.(h) Medical and Dental services, 6.A.(j)2. Services provided by Nurses, Physiotherapists 
and Paramedical personnel, and Health Services (13.A and 13.C). 
92  The horizontal limitation on public utilities applies to spa services and non-therapeutical massages provided in domains of public utility such as certain water 
sources. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-2- 84 
 