 
Appendix 8-A-3 
 
 
UNION 
 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS IN CONFORMITY WITH ARTICLES 8.14  
(KEY PERSONNEL AND GRADUATE TRAINEES)  
AND 8.15 (BUSINESS SERVICES SELLERS) 
 
(KEY PERSONNEL AND GRADUATE TRAINEES AND BUSINESS SERVICES SELLERS) 
 
1.  The list of reservations below indicates the economic activities liberalised pursuant to 
Articles 8.7 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) and 8.12 (Schedule of Specific 
Commitments) for which limitations on key personnel and graduate trainees in accordance 
with Articles 8.14 (Key Personnel and Graduate Trainees) and 8.15 (Business Services Sellers) 
apply and specifies such limitations. The list below is composed of the following elements: 
 
(a)  the first column, which indicates the sector or subsector in which limitations apply; 
and 
 
(b)  the second column, which describes the applicable limitations. 
 
The Union does not undertake any commitment for key personnel in economic activities 
which are not liberalised (remain unbound) pursuant to Article 8.12 (Schedule of Specific 
Commitments). 
 
   
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 1 
  
2.  Commitments on key personnel and graduate trainees do not apply in cases where the 
intent or effect of their temporary presence is to interfere with, or otherwise to affect the 
outcome of, any labour/management dispute or negotiation. 
 
3.  The list of reservations below does not include measures relating to qualification 
requirements and procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements and 
procedures when they do not constitute a limitation within the meaning of Articles 8.14 (Key 
Personnel and Graduate Trainees) and 8.15 (Business Services Sellers). Those measures (e.g. 
requirement to obtain a license, requirement to obtain recognition of qualifications in 
regulated sectors, requirement to pass specific examinations, including language 
examinations, and requirement to have a legal domicile in the territory where the economic 
activity is performed), even if not listed below, apply in any case to key personnel and 
graduate trainees of Singapore. 
 
4.  All requirements of the laws and regulations of the Union regarding entry, stay, work and 
social security measures shall continue to apply, including regulations concerning period of 
stay, minimum wages as well as collective wage agreements even if not listed below. 
 
5.  In accordance with paragraph 2(a) of Article 8.1 (Objective and Scope), the list of 
reservations below does not include measures concerning subsidies granted by a Party. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 2 
  
6.  The list of reservations below is without prejudice to the existence of public monopolies and 
exclusive rights as described in the list of commitments on establishment. 
 
7.  In the sectors where economic needs tests are applied, their main criteria will be the 
assessment of the relevant market situation in the Member State of the Union or the region 
where the service is to be provided, including with respect to the number of, and the impact 
on, existing service suppliers. 
 
8.  The rights and obligations arising from the list of reservations below shall have no 
self-executing effect and thus confer no rights directly on natural or juridical persons. 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 3 
  
                                                           
1  As regards services sectors, these limitations do not go beyond the limitations reflected in the existing GATS commitments. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 4 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 5 
  
                                                           
2  In order for non-Union country nationals to obtain Union-wide recognition of their qualifications, a mutual recognition agreement, negotiated within the framework 
defined in Article 8.16 (Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications), is necessary. 
3  This sector does not include advisory services incidental to manufacturing, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(h). 
4  Publishing and printing on a fee or contract basis is to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(p). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 6 
  
(a)  Legal Services (CPC 861)5  AT, CY, ES, EL, LT, MT, RO, SK: Full admission to the Bar, required for the practice of 
domestic (Union and Member State) law, is subject to a nationality condition. For ES, the 
competent authorities may grant waivers. 
                                                           
5  Includes legal advisory services, legal representational services, legal arbitration and conciliation/mediation services, and legal documentation and certification 
services. Provision of legal services is only authorised in respect of public international law, Union law and the law of any jurisdiction where the service supplier or its 
personnel is qualified to practice as a lawyer, and, like the provision of other services, is subject to licensing requirements and procedures applicable in the Member 
States of the Union. For lawyers providing legal services in respect of public international law and foreign law, these licensing requirements and procedures may 
take, inter alia, the form of compliance with local codes of ethics, use of home title (unless recognition with the host title has been obtained), insurance 
requirements, simple registration with the host country Bar or a simplified admission to the host country Bar through an aptitude test and a legal or professional 
domicile in the host country. Legal services in respect of Union law shall in principle be carried out by or through a fully qualified lawyer admitted to the Bar in a 
Member State of the Union acting personally, and legal services in respect of the law of a Member State of the Union shall be carried out in principle by or through a 
fully qualified lawyer admitted to the Bar in that Member State acting personally. Full admission to the Bar in the relevant Member State of the Union might 
therefore be necessary for representation before courts and other competent authorities in the Union since it involves practice of Union and national procedural 
law. However, in some Member States, foreign lawyers not fully admitted to the Bar are allowed to represent a party in civil proceedings where that party is a 
national of or belonging to the State in which the lawyer is entitled to practice. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 7 
  
excluding legal advisory and legal  BE, FI: Full admission to the Bar, which is required for legal representation services, is 
documentations and certification services  subject to a nationality condition, coupled with a residency requirement. In BE quotas 
provided by legal professionals entrusted  apply for representation before the "Cour de cassation" in non-criminal cases. 
with public functions, such as notaries,  BG: Singaporean lawyers can only provide legal representation services to Singaporean 
"huissiers de justice" or other "officiers  nationals, subject to reciprocity and cooperation with a Bulgarian lawyer. For legal 
publics et ministériels".  mediation services, permanent residency is required. 
FR: Lawyers' access to the profession of "avocat auprès de la Cour de Cassation" and 
"avocat auprès du Conseil d'Etat" is subject to quotas and to a nationality condition. 
HR: Full admission to the Bar, required for legal representation services, is subject to a 
nationality condition (Croatian citizenship and citizenship of a Union Member State). 
HU: Full admission to the Bar is subject to a nationality condition coupled with a 
residency requirement. For foreign lawyers, the scope of legal activities is limited to the 
provision of legal advice, which shall take place on the basis of a collaboration contract 
concluded with a Hungarian attorney or a law firm. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 8 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 9 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 10 
  
                                                           
6  Does not include legal advisory and legal representational services on tax matters, which are to be found under 6.A.(a) Legal Services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 11 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 12 
  
(j)  1. Midwives services (part of CPC 93191)  AT: In order to establish a professional practice in Austria, the person concerned must 
have practised the profession in question for at least three years preceding the setting up 
of that professional practice. 
BE, LU: For graduate trainees, authorisation by the competent authorities required for 
foreign natural persons. 
CY, EE, RO: Authorisation by the competent authorities required for foreign natural 
persons. 
FR: Nationality condition. However, access is possible within annually established quotas. 
IT: Residency requirement. 
LV: Subject to economic needs, determined by the total number of midwives in the given 
region, authorised by local health authorities. 
PL: Nationality condition. Foreign persons may apply for permission to practice. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 13 
  
(j)  2. Services provided by Nurses,  AT: Foreign services suppliers are only allowed in the following activities: nurses, 
Physiotherapists and Paramedical  physiotherapists, occupational therapists, logotherapists, dieticians and nutricians. In 
Personnel (part of CPC 93191)  order to establish a professional practice in Austria, the person concerned must have 
practised the profession in question for at least three years preceding the setting up of 
that professional practice. 
BE, FR, LU: For graduate trainees, authorisation by the competent authorities required for 
foreign natural persons. 
SK: Residency requirement. 
HR: All persons providing services directly to patients/treating patients need a licence 
from the professional chamber. 
CY, CZ, EE, RO, SK: Authorisation by the competent authorities required for foreign 
natural persons. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 14 
  
                                                           
7  The supply of pharmaceuticals to the general public, like the provision of other services, is subject to licensing and qualification requirements and procedures 
applicable in the Member States of the Union. As a general rule, this activity is reserved to pharmacists. In some Member States, only the supply of prescription 
drugs is reserved to pharmacists. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 15 
  
                                                           
8  The service involved relates to the profession of real estate agent and does not affect any rights and/or restrictions on natural and juridical persons purchasing real 
estate. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 16 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 17 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 18 
  
                                                           
9  Maintenance and repair services of transport equipment (CPC 6112, 6122, 8867 and CPC 8868) are to be found under 6.F.(l)1. to 6.F.(l)4. Maintenance and repair 
services of office machinery and equipment including computers (CPC 845) are to be found under 6.B. Computer and Related Services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 19 
  
                                                           
10  Does not include printing services, which fall under CPC 88442 and are to be found under 6.F.(p). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 20 
  
                                                           
11  Does not include maintenance and repair services, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.B. and 6.F.(l). Does not include retailing services of energy 
products which are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.E and 19.F. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 21 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 22 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 23 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 24 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 25 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 26 
  
                                                           
12  Part of CPC 71235, which is to be found in COMMUNICATION SERVICES under 2.A Postal and Courier Services of Appendix 8-A-1. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 27 
  
A.  Services auxiliary to Maritime Transport  AT: Nationality condition for the majority of managing directors. 
(a)  Storage and warehousing Services (part of  BG, MT: Nationality condition. 
CPC 742)  DK: Requirement of residency for customs clearance services. 
(b)  Customs Clearance Services  EL: Nationality condition for customs clearance services. 
(c)  Container Station and Depot Services  IT: Requirement of residency for "raccomandatario marittimo". 
(d)  Maritime Agency Services 
(e)  Maritime Freight Forwarding Services 
(f)  Rental of Vessels with Crew (CPC 7213) 
                                                           
13  Pipeline transportation of fuels is to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.B. 
14  Does not include maintenance and repair services of transport equipment, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 6.F.(l)1. to 6.F.(l)4. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 28 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 29 
  
                                                           
15  Services auxiliary to pipeline transportation of fuels are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 19.C. 
16  Includes the following service rendered on a fee or contract basis: advisory and consulting services relating to mining, on-land site preparation, on-land rig 
installation, drilling, drilling bits services, casing and tubular services, mud engineering and supply, solids control, fishing and downhole special operations, wellsite 
geology and drilling control, core taking, well testing, wireline services, supply and operation of completion fluids (brines) supply and installation of completion 
devices, cementing (pressure pumping), stimulation services (fracturing, acidising and pressure pumping), workover and well repair services, plugging and 
abandoning of wells. 
Does not include direct access to or exploitation of natural resources. 
Does not include site preparation work for mining of resources other than oil and gas (CPC 5115), which is to be found under 8. CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED 
ENGINEERING SERVICES. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 30 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 31 
  
 
 
________________ 
                                                           
17  Therapeutical massages and thermal cure services are to be found under 6.A.(h) Medical and Dental services, 6.A.(j)2. Services provided by Nurses, Physiotherapists 
and Paramedical personnel, and health services (13.A and 13.C). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-3- 32 
 