Appendix 8-B-2 
 
 
SINGAPORE 
 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS – APPENDIX ON FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
A.  SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
All the commitments in this Schedule are subject to horizontal commitments in Singapore's 
Schedule of Specific Commitments. All the commitments in this Schedule are also subject to 
entry requirements, admission criteria, domestic laws, guidelines, rules and regulations, 
terms and conditions of the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) or any other relevant 
authority or body in Singapore, as the case may be provided that they do not circumvent 
Singapore's obligations taken herewith. Juridical persons supplying financial services are 
subject to non-discriminatory limitations on juridical form1. 
 
   
                                                           
1  For example, partnerships and sole proprietorships are generally not acceptable juridical forms for 
depository financial institutions in Singapore. This headnote is not itself intended to affect, or otherwise 
limit, a choice by a financial service supplier of the other Party between branches or subsidiaries. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-2- 1 
 Related to Insurance 
 
1.  Singapore shall not require product filing or approval for insurance products other 
than for life insurance products2, Central Provident Fund-related products and 
investment-linked products. Where product filing or approval is required, Singapore 
shall allow the introduction of the product, which Singapore shall deem to be 
approved unless the product is disapproved within a reasonable time, endeavouring 
to do so in 30 days. Singapore shall not maintain limitations on the number or 
frequency of product introduction. This specific commitment does not apply where a 
financial institution of the Union seeks to supply a new financial service pursuant to 
Article 8.53 (New Financial Services). 
 
Related to Portfolio Management 
 
2.  (a)  Singapore shall allow, in a manner consistent with Article 8.49 (Scope and 
Definitions), a financial service supplier other than a trust company or insurance 
company, organised outside its territory to provide investment advice and 
portfolio management services, excluding (1) custodial services and (2) trustee 
services and (3) execution services that are not related to managing a collective 
investment scheme, to the manager of a collective investment scheme, where 
the manager is: 
 
(i)  located in the territory of Singapore; and 
 
                                                           
2  Life insurance products here would include non-short term accident and health policies and term 
policies exceeding five years. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-2- 2 
 (ii)  related to the financial service supplier. 
 
(b)  For purposes of this paragraph, 
 
(i)  "collective investment scheme" has the meaning given to it under Section 
2 of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289); and 
 
(ii)  "related" means a related corporation as defined under Section 6 of the 
Companies Act (Cap. 50). 
 
Related to Credit and Charge Cards 
 
3.  Singapore shall consider applications for access to automated teller machine networks 
operated by local banks in Singapore for credit and charge cards of non-bank issuers 
that are controlled by persons of the Union. Where such applications are approved, 
non-bank issuers will thereafter be permitted to negotiate for access to the 
automated teller machine networks operated by local banks on commercial terms. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-2- 3 
 B.  OTHERS 
 
1.  (a)  Solely in the context of future liberalisation of its banking subsector, and not for 
the purposes of affording protection to local financial service suppliers within 
the banking subsector, Singapore may impose new non-conforming measures on 
a most-favoured nation treatment basis. Such measures may include, but are 
not limited to: 
 
(i)  requirements regarding the composition of boards of directors of banks 
and finance companies; and 
 
(ii)  limitations on the number of customer service locations of finance 
companies, 
 
provided that any such non-conforming measure shall not derogate from 
commitments undertaken by Singapore in the Financial Services Section of its 
Schedule of Specific Commitments to liberalise on quantitative restrictions on 
the number of licences or on customer service locations for Union banks or 
establish time periods for allowing Union banks access to any ATM network in 
Singapore. 
 
(b)  Where a Union financial service supplier chooses not to participate in a future 
liberalisation described in subparagraph (a), Singapore shall not apply any 
related new non-conforming measure or take any adverse action with respect to 
the financial service supplier. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-2- 4 
 (c)  If Singapore imposes any new non-conforming measure described in paragraph 
(a), it will: 
 
(i)  notify the Union of its intent at least three months in advance of 
implementation of the measure; 
 
(ii)  consult with the Union concerning the measure and give due consideration 
to the views expressed by the Union in this respect; and 
 
(iii)  make compensatory adjustments to the Financial Services Section of its 
Schedule of Specific Commitments with respect to the same class of 
financial service supplier of the banking subsector as are affected by the 
measure, such that the general level of commitments is more favourable 
to trade in the banking subsector than prior to the new measure3. 
 
(d)  Subparagraph (a) shall not apply to any commitments that Singapore makes in 
respect of additional licences and customer service locations. 
 
 
________________ 
 
 
                                                           
3  It is understood that compensatory adjustments shall not be regarded as inadequate solely because the 
general level of commitments after the introduction of the new measure is not significantly more 
favourable to trade in the banking subsector than prior to the introduction of the measure. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-B-2- 5 
 