 
Appendix 8-A-1 
 
 
UNION 
 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS IN CONFORMITY WITH ARTICLE 8.7 
(SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS) 
 
(CROSS-BORDER SUPPLY OF SERVICES) 
 
1.  The list of commitments below indicates the service sectors liberalised pursuant to Article 
8.7 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) and, by means of reservations, the market access 
and national treatment limitations that apply to services and service suppliers of Singapore 
in those sectors. The list below is composed of the following elements: 
 
(a)  the first column, which indicates the sector or subsector in which the commitment is 
undertaken by the Union, and the scope of liberalisation to which the reservations 
apply; and 
 
(b)  the second column, which describes the applicable reservations. 
 
The cross-border supply of services in sectors or subsectors that are covered by this 
Agreement and are not mentioned in the list of commitments below is not committed. 
 
   
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 1 
  
2.  The list of commitments below does not include measures relating to qualification 
requirements and procedures, technical standards and licensing requirements and 
procedures where such measures do not constitute a limitation on market access or national 
treatment within the meaning of Articles 8.5 (Market Access) and Article 8.6 (National 
Treatment). Those measures (e.g. requirements to obtain a license, universal service 
obligations, requirements to obtain recognition of qualifications in regulated sectors and 
requirements to pass specific examinations, including language examinations), even if not 
listed, apply in any case to services and service suppliers of Singapore. 
 
3.  The list of commitments below is without prejudice to the feasibility of the cross-border 
supply of service, provided in paragraph (a) of Article 8.4 (Definitions), in certain service 
sectors and subsectors, and is without prejudice to the existence of public monopolies and 
exclusive rights, as described in the list of commitments on establishment. 
 
4.  In accordance with paragraph 2(a) of Article 8.1 (Objective and Scope), the list of 
commitments below does not include measures concerning subsidies granted by a Party. 
 
5.  The rights and obligations arising from the list of commitments below shall have no 
self-executing effect, and thus confer no rights directly to natural or juridical persons. 
 
6.  The term "investor", as used in this schedule of commitments, shall be understood as the 
term of "entrepreneur" defined in paragraph (c) of Article 8.8 (Definitions). 
 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 2 
  
ALL SECTORS  Real estate 
For Modes 1 and 2 
All Member States except AT, BG, CY, CZ, DK, EL, FI, HU, IE, IT, LT, MT, PL, RO, SI, SK: 
None. 
AT: The acquisition, purchase, rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and 
juridical persons requires the authorisation of the competent regional authorities 
(Länder), which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are 
affected or not. 
BG: Foreign juridical persons and foreign citizens with permanent residence abroad can 
acquire ownership of buildings and limited property rights1 in real estate, subject to the 
permission of the Ministry of Finance. The requirement of permission does not apply to 
persons who have made investments in Bulgaria. 
Foreign citizens with permanent residence abroad, foreign juridical persons, and 
companies in which foreign participation ensures a majority in adopting decisions or in 
which foreign participation blocks the adoption of decisions, can acquire real estate 
property rights in specific geographic regions designated by the Council of Ministers 
subject to permission. 
                                                           
1  The Bulgarian property law recognizes the following limited property rights: right to use, right to build, right to raise a superstructure and servitudes. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 3 
  
  CY: Unbound. 
CZ: Agricultural and forest land can be acquired by foreign natural and juridical persons 
with permanent residence in the Czech Republic. Specific rules apply to the agricultural 
and forest land in the state ownership. 
DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities. 
Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities. 
EL: According to Law No. 1892/90, permission from the Minister of Defence is needed for 
a citizen to acquire land in areas near borders. According to administrative practices, 
permission is easily granted for direct investment. 
FI: (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of natural persons who do not enjoy regional 
citizenship in Åland, and restrictions on the right of juridical persons, to acquire and hold 
real property on the Åland Islands without the permission of the competent authorities 
of the islands. Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services 
by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any juridical 
persons, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 4 
  
  HU: Limitations on acquisition of land and real estate by foreign investors.2 
IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any 
interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals. Where such 
land is for industrial use (other than agricultural industry), this requirement is waived 
subject to certification to this effect from the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and 
Employment. This law does not apply to land within the boundaries of cities and towns. 
IT: The purchase of real estate by foreign natural and juridical persons is subject to a 
condition of reciprocity. 
LT: Unbound for acquisition of land.3 
MT: The requirements of Maltese legislation and regulations regarding acquisition of real 
property shall continue to apply. 
PL: The acquisition of real estate, direct or indirect, by foreigners (a natural or foreign 
legal persons) requires permission. Unbound for the acquisition of state-owned property 
(i.e. the regulations governing the privatization process). 
                                                           
2  As regards services sectors, these limitations do not go beyond the limitations reflected in the existing GATS commitments. 
3  As regards services sectors, these limitations do not go beyond the limitations reflected in the existing GATS commitments. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 5 
  
                                                           
4  According to the Law on Commercial Companies, a branch established in Slovenia is not considered a juridical person, but as regards its operation, its treatment is 
equal to that of a subsidiary, which is in line with Article XXVIII paragraph (g) of the GATS. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 6 
  
(a)  Legal Services5 (CPC 861)6  For Modes 1 and 2 
AT, CY, ES, EL, LT, MT, SK: Full admission to the Bar, which is required for the practice of 
domestic (EU and Member State) law, is subject to a nationality condition. 
                                                           
5  Due to the gradual liberalisation process of Singapore's legal services market, Singapore cannot yet commit to further market access in this sector. The Parties will, 
with a view to granting further market access, review their commitments in legal services no later than two years after entry into force of this Agreement. The 
Parties may, by decision in the Committee on Trade in Services, Investment and Government Procurement established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised 
Committees) amend either Party's schedules in this respect 
6  This includes legal advisory services, legal representational services, legal arbitration and conciliation/mediation services, and legal documentation and certification 
services. The provision of legal services is only authorised in respect of public international law, Union law and the law of any jurisdiction where the service supplier 
or its personnel is qualified to practice as a lawyer, and, like the provision of other services, is subject to licensing requirements and procedures applicable in the 
Member States of the Union. For lawyers providing legal services in respect of public international law and foreign law, these licensing requirements and procedures 
may take, inter alia, the form of compliance with local codes of ethics, use of home title (unless recognition with the host title has been obtained), insurance 
requirements, simple registration with the host country Bar or a simplified admission to the host country Bar through an aptitude test and a legal or professional 
domicile in the host country. Legal services in respect of Union law shall be carried out in principle by or through a fully qualified lawyer admitted to the Bar in a 
Member State of the Union acting personally, and legal services in respect of the law of a Member State of the Union shall in principle be carried out by or through a 
fully qualified lawyer admitted to the Bar in that Member State acting personally. Full admission to the Bar in the relevant Member State of the Union might 
therefore be necessary for representation before courts and other competent authorities in the Union since it involves practice of Union and national procedural 
law. However, in some Member States, foreign lawyers not fully admitted to the Bar are allowed to represent a party in civil proceedings where that party is a 
national of or belonging to the State in which the lawyer is entitled to practice. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 7 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 8 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 9 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 10 
  
                                                           
7  Does not include legal advisory and legal representational services on tax matters, which are to be found under 1.A.(a) Legal Services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 11 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 12 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 13 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 14 
  
                                                           
8  The supply of pharmaceuticals to the general public, like the provision of other services, is subject to licensing and qualification requirements and procedures 
applicable in the Member States of the Union. As a general rule, this activity is reserved to pharmacists. In some Member States of the Union, only the supply of 
prescription drugs is reserved to pharmacists. 
9  Part of CPC 85201, which is to be found under 1.A.(h) Medical and Dental services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 15 
  
(a)  Involving Own or Leased Property (CPC  For Mode 1 
821) 
BG, CY, CZ, EE, HU, IE, LV, LT, MT, PL, RO, SK, SI: Unbound. 
HR: Commercial presence required. 
 
For Mode 2 
None. 
DK: The title of "real estate agent" may only be used by people who have been admitted 
to the real estate agent register. Section 25(2) of the Act on the sale of real estate lays 
down the requirements for who can be admitted to the register. 
                                                           
10  The service involved relates to the profession of real estate agent and does not affect any rights and/or restrictions on natural and juridical persons purchasing real 
estate. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 16 
  
(b)  On a Fee or Contract Basis (CPC 822)  For Mode 1 
BG, CY, CZ, EE, HU, IE, LV, LT, MT, PL, RO, SK, SI: Unbound. 
HR: Commercial presence required. 
DK: The title of "real estate agent" may only be used by people who have been admitted 
to the real estate agent register. Section 25(2) of the Act on the sale of real estate lays 
down the requirements for who can be admitted to the register. 
Inter alia, the Act requires that the applicant is a Danish resident or resident of the Union, 
the European Economic Area or Switzerland. Furthermore, some requirements regarding 
the applicant's theoretical insight and practical knowledge must be considered in the way 
that they were laid down by the Danish Authority of Enterprise and Construction in 
guidelines. The Act on the sale of real estate is only applicable when dealing with Danish 
consumers. Other legislation concerning the ability of foreigners to buy/sell property in 
Denmark can be applicable, e.g. residency requirements. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 17 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 18 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 19 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 20 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 21 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 22 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 23 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 24 
  
                                                           
11  Maintenance and repair services of transport equipment (CPC 6112, 6122, 8867 and CPC 8868) are to be found under 1.F.(l)1. to 1.F.(l)4. Maintenance and repair 
services of office machinery and equipment including computers (CPC 845) are to be found under 1.B. Computer and Related Services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 25 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 26 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 27 
  
                                                           
12  Does not include printing services, which fall under CPC 88442 and are to be found under 1.F.(p). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 28 
  
A.  Postal and Courier Services (Services  For Modes 1 and 2 
relating to the handling13 of postal items14  None. 
according to the following list of 
subsectors, whether for domestic or 
foreign destinations: 
(i)  Handling of addressed written 
communications on any kind of 
physical medium15, including Hybrid 
mail service and Direct mail; 
(ii)  Handling of addressed parcels and 
packages16; 
                                                           
13  "Handling" refers to activities such as clearance, sorting, transport and delivery. 
14  "Postal item" refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. 
15  E.g. letters, postcards. 
16  Books and catalogues are included hereunder. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 29 
  
(iii)  Handling of addressed press   
products17; 
(iv)  Handling of items referred to in (i) to 
(iii) above as registered or insured 
mail; 
(v)  Express delivery services18 for items 
referred to in (i) to (iii) above; 
(vi)  Handling of non-addressed items; 
and 
(vii)  Document exchange19. 
                                                           
17  Journals, newspapers, and periodicals. 
18  Express delivery services may include, in addition to greater speed and reliability, value added elements such as collection from point of origin, personal delivery to 
addressee, tracing and tracking, possibility of changing the destination and addressee in transit, and confirmation of receipt. 
19  Provision of means, including the supply of ad hoc premises as well as transportation by a third party, allowing self-delivery by mutual exchange of postal items 
between users subscribing to this service. "Postal item" refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 30 
  
                                                           
20  "Items of correspondence" means a communication in written form on any kind of physical medium to be conveyed and delivered at the address indicated by the 
sender on the item itself or on its wrapping. Books, catalogues, newspapers and periodicals are not regarded as items of correspondence. 
21  Transportation of postal and courier items on own account by any land mode. 
22  Transportation of mail on own account by air. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 31 
  
                                                           
23  These services do not include on-line information and/or data processing (including transaction processing) (part of CPC 843) which is to be found under 1.B. 
Computer and Related services. 
24  Broadcasting is defined as the uninterrupted chain of transmission via wired or wireless means (regardless of the location of the originating transmission) required 
for the reception and/or display of aural and/or visual programme signals by all or any part of the public, but does not cover contribution links between operators. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 32 
  
4.  DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (excluding  For Modes 1 and 2 
distribution of arms, munitions, explosives  EU except AT, SI, FI: Unbound for distribution of chemical products, and of precious 
and other war material)  metals (and stones). 
A.  Commission Agents' Services  AT: Unbound for distribution of pyrotechnical goods, of ignitable articles and blasting 
(a)  Commission Agents' Services of motor  devices and of toxic substances. 
vehicles, motorcycles and snowmobiles  AT, BG: Unbound for distribution of products for medical use such as medical and surgical 
and parts and accessories thereof (part of  devices, medical substances and objects for medical use. 
CPC 61111, part of CPC 6113 and part of 
HR: Unbound for tobacco products. 
CPC 6121) 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 33 
  
(b)  Other Commission Agents' Services  For Mode 1 
(CPC 621)  AT, BG, FR, PL, RO: Unbound for distribution of tobacco and tobacco products. 
B.  Wholesale Trade Services  IT: For wholesale trade services, state monopoly on tobacco. 
(a)  Wholesale Trade Services of motor  BG, FI, PL, RO: Unbound for distribution of alcoholic beverages. 
vehicles, motorcycles and snowmobiles 
SE: Unbound for retail of alcoholic beverages. 
and parts and accessories thereof (part of 
AT, BG, CZ, FI, RO, SK, SI: Unbound for distribution of pharmaceuticals. 
CPC 61111, part of CPC 6113 and part of 
CPC 6121)  BG, HU, PL: Unbound for commodity brokers' services. 
(b)  Wholesale Trade Services of  FR: For commission agents' services, unbound for traders and brokers working in 17 
telecommunication terminal equipment  markets of national interest on fresh food products. Unbound for wholesale of 
(part of CPC 7542)  pharmaceuticals. 
(c)  Other wholesale trade services (CPC 622  MT: Unbound for commission agents' services. 
excluding wholesale trade services of  BE, BG, CY, DE, DK, ES, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, MT, NL, PL, PT, SK, UK: For retailing services, 
energy products25)  unbound except for mail order. 
                                                           
25  These services, which include CPC 62271, are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 14.D. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 34 
  
                                                           
26  Does not include maintenance and repair services, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 1.B. and 1.F.(l). Does not include retailing services of energy 
products, which are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 14.E. and 14.F. 
27  Retail sales of pharmaceutical, medical and orthopaedic goods are to be found under PROFESSIONAL SERVICES in 1.A.(k). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 35 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 36 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 37 
  
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES  For Mode 1 
A.  Waste Water Services (CPC 9401)28  EU: Unbound except for consulting services. 
B.  Solid/hazardous waste management,   
excluding cross-border transport of  For Mode 2 
hazardous waste 
None. 
(a)  Refuse Disposal Services (CPC 9402) 
(b)  Sanitation and Similar Services (CPC 9403) 
C.  Protection of ambient air and climate 
(CPC 9404)29 
                                                           
28  Corresponds to sewage services. 
29  Corresponds to cleaning services of exhaust gases. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 38 
  
                                                           
30  Corresponds to parts of nature and landscape protection services. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 39 
  
A.  Insurance and insurance-related services  For Modes 1 and 2 
AT, BE, CZ, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LU, NL, PL, PT, RO, SK, SE, SI, UK: Unbound for 
direct insurance services except for the insurance of risks relating to: 
(a)  Maritime shipping, commercial aviation and space launching and freight (including 
satellites), with such insurance to cover any or all of the following: the goods being 
transported, the vehicle transporting the goods and any liability arising therefrom; 
and 
(b)  goods in international transit. 
AT: Promotional activity and intermediation on behalf of a subsidiary not established in 
the Union or of a branch not established in Austria (except for reinsurance and 
retrocession) are prohibited. Compulsory air insurance, except for insurance of 
international commercial air transport, can only be underwritten by a subsidiary 
established in the Union or by a branch established in Austria. A higher premium tax is 
due for insurance contracts (except for contracts on reinsurance and retrocession) which 
are written by a subsidiary not established in the Union or by a branch not established in 
Austria. Exceptions from the higher premium tax can be granted. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 40 
  
  DK: Compulsory air transport insurance can be underwritten only by firms established in 
the Union. No persons or companies (including insurance companies) may assist, for 
business purposes in Denmark, in effecting direct insurance for persons resident in 
Denmark, for Danish ships or for property in Denmark, other than insurance companies 
licensed by Danish law or by Danish competent authorities. 
DE: Compulsory air insurance policies can be underwritten only by a subsidiary 
established in the Union or by a branch established in Germany. If a foreign insurance 
company has established a branch in Germany, it may conclude insurance contracts in 
Germany relating to international transport only through the branch established in 
Germany. 
FR: Insurance of risks relating to ground transport may be underwritten only by insurance 
firms established in the Union. 
PL: Unbound except for reinsurance, retrocession and insurance of goods in international 
trade. 
PT: Air and maritime transport insurance, covering goods, aircraft, hull and liability, can 
be underwritten only by firms established in the Union. Only persons or companies 
established in the Union may act as intermediaries for such insurance business in 
Portugal. 
RO: Reinsurance on international market is allowed only if the reinsured risk cannot be 
placed on the domestic market. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 41 
  
  For Mode 1 
AT, BE, CZ, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, RO, SK, SE, SI, UK: Unbound for 
direct insurance intermediation services except for insurance of risks relating to: 
(a)  Maritime shipping, commercial aviation and space launching and freight (including 
satellites), with such insurance to cover any or all of the following: the goods being 
transported, the vehicle transporting the goods and any liability arising therefrom; 
and 
(b)  goods in international transit. 
BG: Unbound for direct insurance, except for services supplied by foreign suppliers to 
foreign persons in the territory of Bulgaria. Transport insurance covering goods, 
insurance of vehicles as such, and liability insurance regarding risks located in Bulgaria, 
may not be underwritten by foreign insurance companies directly. A foreign insurance 
company may conclude insurance contracts only through a branch in the Union. Unbound 
for deposit insurance and similar compensations schemes, as well as mandatory 
insurance schemes. 
CY, LV, MT: Unbound for direct insurance services except for insurance of risks relating 
to: 
(a)  Maritime shipping, commercial aviation and space launching and freight (including 
satellites), with such insurance to cover any or all of the following: the goods being 
transported, the vehicle transporting the goods and any liability arising therefrom; 
and 
(b)  goods in international transit. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 42 
  
  LT: Unbound for direct insurance services except for insurance of risks relating to: 
(a)  Maritime shipping, commercial aviation and space launching and freight (including 
satellites), with such insurance to cover any or all of the following: the goods being 
transported, the vehicle transporting the goods and any liability arising therefrom; 
and 
(b)  goods in international transit, except related to land transport where the risk is 
located in Lithuania. 
LV, LT, PL, BG: Unbound for insurance intermediation. 
FI: Only insurers having their head office in the Union or having their branch in Finland 
may offer direct insurance (including co-insurance) services. The supply of insurance 
broker services is subject to a permanent place of business in the Union. 
HU: The supply of direct insurance in the territory of Hungary by insurance companies not 
established in the Union is allowed only through a branch office registered in Hungary. 
IT: Unbound for the actuarial profession. Transport insurance of goods, insurance of 
vehicles as such and liability insurance regarding risks located in Italy may be 
underwritten only by insurance companies established in the Union. This reservation 
does not apply to international transport involving imports into Italy. 
SE: The supply of direct insurance is allowed only through an insurance service supplier 
authorised in Sweden, provided that the foreign service supplier and the Swedish 
insurance company belong to the same group of companies or have an agreement of 
cooperation between them. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 43 
  
  ES: For actuarial services, residency requirement and three-years relevant experience. 
 
For Mode 2 
AT, BE, BG, CZ, CY, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LU, MT, NL, PL, PT, RO, SK, SE, SI, UK: 
Unbound for intermediation. 
BG: For direct insurance, Bulgarian natural and juridical persons, as well as foreign 
persons who conduct business activity in the territory of Bulgaria, can conclude insurance 
contracts only with suppliers which are licensed to conduct insurance activity in Bulgaria 
with respect to their activity in Bulgaria. Insurance compensation resulting from these 
contracts shall be paid in Bulgaria. Unbound for deposit insurance and similar 
compensations schemes, as well as mandatory insurance schemes. 
HR: Unbound for direct insurance and direct insurance intermediation services, except 
(a)  life insurance: for the ability of foreign persons residing in Croatia to obtain life 
insurance; 
(b)  non-life insurance: 
(i)  for the ability of foreign persons residing in Croatia to obtain non-life 
insurance other than automobile liability; 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 44 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 45 
  
B.  Banking and other financial services  For Mode 1 
(excluding insurance)  AT, BE, BG, CZ, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LU, NL, PL, PT, SK, SE, UK: Unbound except 
All subsectors indicated below  for provision of financial information and financial data processing and for advisory and 
other auxiliary services excluding intermediation. 
BE: Establishment in Belgium is required for the provision of investment advisory 
services. 
BG: Limitations and conditions relating to the use of telecommunications network may 
apply. 
CY: Unbound except for trading of transferable securities, for provision of financial 
information and financial data processing and for advisory and other auxiliary services 
excluding intermediation. 
EE: For acceptance of deposits, requirement of authorisation by the Estonian Financial 
Supervision Authority and registration under Estonian Law as a joint-stock company, a 
subsidiary or a branch. 
EE: The establishment of a specialised management company is required to perform the 
activities of management of investment funds, and only firms having their registered 
office in the Union can act as depositories of the assets of investment funds. 
HR: Unbound except for lending, financial leasing, payment and money transmission 
services, guarantees and commitments, money broking, provision and transfer of 
financial information and advisory and other auxiliary financial services, excluding 
intermediation. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 46 
  
  LT: The establishment of a specialised management company is required to perform the 
activities of management of unit trusts and investment companies, and only firms having 
their registered office in the Union can act as depositories of the assets of investment 
funds. 
IE: The provision of investment services or investment advice requires either (a) 
authorisation in Ireland, which normally requires that the entity be incorporated or be a 
partnership or a sole trader, in each case with a head/registered office in Ireland 
(authorisation may not be required in certain cases, e.g. where a Singapore's service 
supplier has no commercial presence in Ireland and the service is not provided for private 
individuals), or (b) authorisation in another Member State of the Union in accordance 
with the Union directive on investment and services. 
IT: Unbound for "promotori di servizi finanziari" (financial salesmen). 
LV: Unbound except for participation in issue of all kinds of securities, for provision of 
financial information and financial data processing and for advisory and other auxiliary 
services excluding intermediation. 
LT: Commercial presence is required for pension fund management. 
MT: Unbound except for acceptance of deposits, for lending of all types, for provision of 
financial information and financial data processing and for advisory and other auxiliary 
services excluding intermediation. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 47 
  
  PL: For the provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data processing 
and related software, requirement to use the public telecommunications network, or the 
network of other authorised operator. 
RO: Unbound for financial leasing, for trading of money market instruments, foreign 
exchange, derivative products, exchange rate and interest rate instruments, transferable 
securities and other negotiable instruments and financial assets, for participation in issue 
of all kinds of securities, for asset management and for settlement and clearing services 
for financial assets. Payments and money transmission services are allowed only through 
a bank established in Romania. 
SI: 
(a)  Participation in issue of Treasury bonds, pension fund management: Unbound. 
(b)  All other subsectors, except participation in issue of Treasury bonds, pension fund 
management, provision and transfer of financial information and advisory and 
other auxiliary financial services: Unbound except accepting credits (borrowing of 
all types), and accepting guarantees and commitments from foreign credit 
institutions by domestic legal entities and sole proprietors. Foreign persons can 
offer foreign securities only through domestic banks and stock broking company. 
Members of the Slovenian Stock Exchange must be incorporated in Slovenia or be 
branches of foreign investment firms or banks. 
 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 48 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 49 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 50 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 51 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 52 
  
                                                           
31  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
32  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 53 
  
                                                           
33  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
34  Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include national 
cabotage transport, which is assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located in a Member State of the Union and another 
port or point located in the same Member State, including on its continental shelf as provided in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and traffic originating 
and terminating in the same port or point located in a Member State of the Union. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 54 
  
                                                           
35  Part of CPC 71235, which is to be found in COMMUNICATION SERVICES under 2.A. Postal and Courier Services. 
36  Pipeline transportation of fuels is to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 14.B. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 55 
  
A.  Services auxiliary to Maritime Transport  For Mode 1 
(a)  Storage and warehousing Services (part of  EU: Unbound40 for pushing and towing services. 
CPC 742)  AT, BG, CY, CZ, DE, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, RO, SI, SK: Unbound for rental of vessels with crew. 
(b)  Customs Clearance Services38  SE: None except for pushing/towing and rental of vessels with crew where SE has 
(c)  Container Station and Depot Services39  limitations on cabotage and flag. 
                                                           
37  Does not include maintenance and repair services of transport equipment, which are to be found in BUSINESS SERVICES under 1.F.(l)1 to 1.F.(l)4. 
38  "Customs clearance services" mean the activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import, export or through 
transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service provider or a usual complement of its main activity. 
39  "Container station and depot services" means activities consisting in storing containers, whether in port areas or inland, with a view to their stuffing/stripping, 
repairing and making them available for shipments. 
40  Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 56 
  
                                                           
41  "Maritime agency services" means activities consisting in representing, within a given geographic area, as an agent the business interests of one or more shipping 
lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes: 
marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies, acquisition 
and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; 
acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. 
42  "Maritime freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the 
acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 57 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 58 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 59 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 60 
  
                                                           
43  Services auxiliary to pipeline transportation of fuels are to be found in ENERGY SERVICES under 14.C. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 61 
  
                                                           
44  Includes the following services rendered on a fee or contract basis: advisory and consulting services relating to mining, on-land site preparation, on-land rig 
installation, drilling, drilling bits services, casing and tubular services, mud engineering and supply, solids control, fishing and downhole special operations, wellsite 
geology and drilling control, core taking, well testing, wireline services, supply and operation of completion fluids (brines) supply and installation of completion 
devices, cementing (pressure pumping), stimulation services (fracturing, acidising and pressure pumping), workover and well repair services and plugging and 
abandoning of wells. 
Does not include direct access to or exploitation of natural resources. 
Does not include site preparation work for mining of resources other than oil and gas (CPC 5115), which is to be found under 3. CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED 
ENGINEERING SERVICES. 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 62 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 63 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 64 
  
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 65 
  
 
 
                                                           
45  Therapeutical massages and thermal cure services are to be found under 1.A.(h) Medical and Dental services, 1.A.(j)2. Services provided by Nurses, Physiotherapists 
and Paramedical Personnel, and Health Services (8.A and 8.C). 
EUSFTA Appendix 8-A-1- 66 
 