 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 1 
 
CHAPTER FIVE 
 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.1 
 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are: 
 
(a) 
to protect human, animal or plant life or health in the respective territories of the 
Parties while facilitating trade between the Parties in the area of sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures (hereinafter referred to as "SPS measures"); 
 
(b) 
to collaborate on the further implementation of the SPS Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
to provide a means to improve communication, cooperation and resolution of issues 
related to the implementation of SPS measures affecting trade between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.2 
 
Scope 
 
1. 
This Chapter applies to all SPS measures of a Party that may directly or indirectly 
affect trade between the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 2 
 
2. 
This Chapter shall also apply to collaboration between the Parties on animal welfare 
matters of mutual interest to the Parties. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights of the Parties under the TBT Agreement 
with respect to measures not within the scope of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.3 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
the definitions contained in Annex A of the SPS Agreement shall apply; and 
 
(b) 
the Parties may agree on other definitions to be used in the application of this 
Chapter, taking into consideration the glossaries and definitions of relevant 
international organisations, such as the CODEX Alimentarius Commission (hereinafter 
referred to as "Codex Alimentarius"), the World Organisation for Animal Health 
(hereinafter referred to as "OIE") and under the International Plant Protection 
Convention (hereinafter referred to as "IPPC"). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 3 
 
ARTICLE 5.4 
 
Rights and Obligations 
 
The Parties affirm their rights and obligations under the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.5 
 
Competent Authorities 
 
The competent authorities of the Parties responsible for the implementation of this Chapter 
are set out in Annex 5-A. The Parties shall notify each other of any changes to those 
competent authorities. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.6 
 
General Principles 
 
When implementing this Chapter, the Parties: 
 
(a) 
shall ensure the consistency of SPS measures with the principles established by Article 
3 of the SPS Agreement; 
 
(b) 
shall not use SPS measures to create unjustified barriers to trade; 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 4 
 
(c) 
shall ensure that procedures established under this Chapter are undertaken and 
completed without undue delay, and that such procedures are not applied in a 
manner which would constitute an arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination against the 
other Party, where identical or similar conditions exist; and 
 
(d) 
shall use neither the procedures referred to in subparagraph (c), nor any requests for 
additional information, to delay access to their respective markets without scientific 
and technical justification. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.7 
 
Import Requirements 
 
1. 
The import requirements of a Party shall apply to the entire territory of the other 
Party. 
 
2. 
The exporting Party shall ensure that products exported to the importing Party meet 
the sanitary and phytosanitary requirements of the importing Party. 
 
3. 
The importing Party shall ensure that its import requirements are applied to 
products imported from the exporting Party in a proportionate and non-discriminatory 
manner. 
 
4. 
Any fees imposed for the procedures for products imported from the exporting Party 
shall be equitable in relation to any fees charged for like domestic products and shall not be 
higher than the actual cost of the service. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 5 
 
5. 
The importing Party shall have the right to carry out import checks on products 
imported from the exporting Party for the purpose of implementing SPS measures. 
 
6. 
The import checks carried out on products imported from the exporting Party shall 
be based on the sanitary and phytosanitary risk associated with such imports. They shall be 
carried out without undue delay and with minimum effect on trade between the Parties. 
 
7. 
The importing Party shall make available to the exporting Party, upon request by the 
exporting Party, information about the frequency of import checks carried out on products 
from the exporting Party. The importing Party may change the frequency of physical checks 
on consignments, where appropriate, as a consequence of (i) verifications, (ii) import 
checks, or (iii) a mutual agreement between the Parties, including following the 
consultations provided for in this Chapter. 
 
8. 
In the event that the import checks demonstrate that products do not comply with 
the relevant import requirements of the importing Party, any action taken by the importing 
Party should be proportionate to the sanitary and phytosanitary risk associated with the 
importation of the non-compliant product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 6 
 
ARTICLE 5.8 
 
Verifications 
 
1. 
In order to build and maintain confidence in the effective implementation of this 
Chapter, the importing Party shall have the right to carry out verifications at any time, 
including: 
 
(a) 
through verification visits to the exporting Party, to verify all or part of the inspection 
and certification system of the exporting Party's competent authorities, in accordance 
with the relevant international standards, guidelines and recommendations of the 
Codex Alimentarius, OIE and IPPC; and 
 
(b) 
by requiring the exporting Party to provide information about its inspection and 
certification system and by obtaining the results of the controls carried out 
thereunder. 
 
2. 
The importing Party shall share with the exporting Party the results and conclusions 
of the verifications carried out pursuant to paragraph 1. The importing Party may make 
those results publicly available. 
 
3. 
If the importing Party decides to carry out a verification visit to the exporting Party, 
the importing Party shall notify the exporting Party of this verification visit at least 60 
calendar days before the verification visit is to be carried out, except in emergency cases or 
where the Parties agree otherwise. Any modification to such a visit shall be agreed by the 
Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 7 
 
4. 
The costs incurred in carrying out the verification of all or part of the exporting 
Party's competent authorities' inspection and certification systems and the costs incurred in 
carrying out any inspections of individual establishments shall be borne by the importing 
Party. 
 
5. 
The importing Party shall provide information in writing of a verification to the 
exporting Party within 60 calendar days. The exporting Party shall have 45 calendar days to 
comment on such information. The exporting Party's comments shall be attached to and, 
where appropriate, included in the final outcome document. 
 
6. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 5, where a significant risk to human, animal or plant life 
or health has been identified during a verification, the importing Party shall inform the 
exporting Party as quickly as possible, and in any case within ten calendar days following the 
end of the verification. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.9 
 
Trade Facilitation 
 
1. 
In cases where the importing Party requires an on-the-spot verification to authorise 
imports of a certain category or categories of products of animal origin from the exporting 
Party, the following shall apply: 
 
(a) 
The verification shall evaluate the exporting Party's inspection and certification system 
in accordance with Article 5.8 (Verifications) and shall take into consideration, upon 
request, any relevant written information provided by the exporting Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 8 
 
(b) 
In case of a satisfactory outcome of the verification of the inspection and certification 
system, the importing Party shall inform the exporting Party in writing of the positive 
outcome of the verification. In such case, the information provided may include the 
fact that the importing Party has authorised, or will authorise, imports of specific 
category or categories of products. 
 
(c) 
If the outcome of the verification of the inspection and certification systems is not 
satisfactory, the importing Party shall inform, in writing, the exporting Party of the 
result of the verification. In such case, the information shall include one of the 
following: 
 
(i) 
a statement of the conditions, including those related to the inspection and 
certification system of the exporting Party, that still need to be put in place by 
the exporting Party to allow the importing Party to authorise imports of a 
specific category or categories of products of animal origin; 
 
(ii) 
a reference to the fact that specific establishments of products of animal origin 
may be allowed to export to the importing Party upon compliance with the 
relevant import requirements of Article 5.7 (Import Requirements); or 
 
(iii) 
a statement that the importing Party has not authorised the importation of the 
specific category or categories of products from the exporting Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 9 
 
2. 
In cases where the importing Party has authorised the importation of a specific 
category or categories of products of animal origin referred to in paragraph 1(b), the 
exporting Party shall inform the importing Party of the list of individual establishments that 
meet the importing Party's requirements in accordance with, in particular, Article 5.7 
(Import Requirements) and Article 5.8 (Verifications). Furthermore the following applies: 
 
(a) 
At the request of the exporting Party, the importing Party shall approve individual 
establishments as referred to in paragraph 3 of Annex 5-B which are situated in the 
territory of the exporting Party, without prior inspection of those individual 
establishments. When requesting the approval by the importing Party, the exporting 
Party shall provide any information required by the importing Party to guarantee the 
compliance with the relevant requirements, including those of Article 5.7 (Import 
Requirements). The approval by the importing Party shall be consistent with the 
conditions set out in Annex 5-B, and shall be limited to those categories of products 
for which imports are authorised. 
 
(b) 
Upon the approval of the individual establishments referred to in subparagraph 2(a), 
the importing Party shall take the necessary legislative or administrative measures, in 
accordance with its applicable legal and administrative procedures, to allow imports 
within 40 calendar days of the receipt of the request of the exporting Party and, if 
applicable, the information required by the importing Party to guarantee the 
compliance with the relevant requirements, including those of Article 5.7 (Import 
Requirements). 
 
(c) 
The importing Party shall notify the exporting Party of its acceptance or rejection of 
any individual establishments referred to in paragraph 2(a) and, if applicable, the 
reasons for any rejection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 10 
 
ARTICLE 5.10 
 
Measures Linked to Animal and Plant Health 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the concepts of pest- or disease-free areas and areas of low 
pest or disease prevalence, in accordance with the SPS Agreement, OIE and IPPC standards, 
guidelines and recommendations. The SPS Committee referred to in Article 5.15 (Committee 
on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures) may define further details for the procedure for 
the recognition of such areas, including procedures for the recognition of such areas in cases 
where there has been an outbreak, taking into account any relevant SPS Agreement, OIE 
and IPPC standards, guidelines or recommendations. 
 
2. 
When determining pest- or disease-free areas and areas of low pest or disease 
prevalence, the Parties shall consider factors such as geographical location, ecosystems, 
epidemiological surveillance, and the effectiveness of sanitary or phytosanitary controls in 
such areas. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall establish close cooperation on the determination of pest- or 
disease-free areas and areas of low pest and disease prevalence, with the objective of 
attaining confidence in the procedures followed by the other Party for the determination of 
such areas. When accepting the determination of such areas made by the exporting Party, 
the importing Party shall, in principle, base its determination of the animal or plant health 
status of the exporting Party or parts thereof on the information provided by the exporting 
Party in accordance with the SPS Agreement, OIE and IPPC standards, guidelines and 
recommendations. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 11 
 
4. 
If the importing Party does not accept the determination made by the exporting 
Party, it shall explain the reasons and shall be ready to enter into consultations. 
 
5. 
Where the exporting Party claims that areas within its territory are pest- or disease-
free areas or areas of low pest or disease prevalence, it shall provide relevant evidence in 
order to objectively demonstrate to the importing Party that such areas are, and are likely 
to remain, pest- or disease-free areas or areas of low pest or disease prevalence, as the case 
may be. For this purpose, reasonable access shall be given, upon request, to the importing 
Party for inspection, testing and other relevant procedures. 
 
6. 
The Parties recognise the principle of compartmentalisation of the OIE and pest-free 
production sites of the IPPC. The SPS Committee referred to in Article 5.15 (Committee on 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures) will assess any OIE and IPPC recommendations that 
may be issued on this matter in the future and may issue recommendations accordingly. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.11 
 
Transparency and Exchange of Information 
 
1. 
The Parties shall: 
 
(a) 
pursue transparency as regards SPS measures applicable to trade and, in particular, to 
those of Article 5.7 (Import Requirements) applied to imports from the other Party; 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 12 
 
(b) 
enhance mutual understanding of each Party's SPS measures and their application; 
 
(c) 
exchange information on matters related to the development and application of SPS 
measures, including the progress on new available scientific evidence, that affect, or 
may affect, trade between the Parties with a view to minimising their negative trade 
effects; 
 
(d) 
communicate, upon the request of a Party, the import requirements that apply to the 
importation of specific products within 15 calendar days; and 
 
(e) 
communicate, upon the request of a Party, progress on the application for the 
authorisation of specific products within 15 calendar days. 
 
2. 
The contact points responsible for the information pursuant to paragraph 1 are 
those that are designated by the Parties in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 13.4 
(Enquiries and Contact Points). Information shall be sent by post, fax or e-mail. Information 
by e-mail may be signed electronically and shall only be sent between the contact points. 
 
3. 
Where the information pursuant to subparagraph 1(c) has been made available by 
notification to the WTO in accordance with its relevant rules and procedures, or where the 
above information has been made available on the official, publicly accessible and fee-free 
websites of the Parties, the information exchange referred to in that subparagraph shall be 
deemed to have taken place. 
 
4. 
All notifications under this Chapter shall be made to the contact points referred to 
under paragraph 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 13 
 
ARTICLE 5.12 
 
Consultations 
 
1. 
Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing, within two calendar days, of any 
serious or significant risk to human, animal or plant life or health, including any food 
emergencies. 
 
2. 
Where a Party has serious concerns regarding a risk to human, animal or plant life or 
health, affecting commodities for which trade takes place, consultations regarding the 
situation shall, upon request, take place as soon as possible. In such case, each Party shall 
endeavour to provide all necessary information in due time to avoid disruption in trade. 
 
3. 
Consultations referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article may be held by e-mail, video 
or telephone conference. The requesting Party shall ensure the preparation of the minutes 
of the consultation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.13 
 
Emergency Measures 
 
1. 
In case of serious risk to human, animal or plant life or health, the importing Party 
may, without previous notification, take measures necessary to protect human, animal or 
plant life or health. For consignments in transport between the Parties, the importing Party 
shall consider the most suitable and proportionate solution in order to avoid unnecessary 
disruptions to trade. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 14 
 
2. 
The Party taking the measures shall inform the other Party as soon as possible, and 
in any case no later than 24 hours after the adoption of the measure. Either Party may 
request any information related to the sanitary and phytosanitary situation or to any such 
measures that have been adopted. The other Party shall reply as soon as the requested 
information is available. 
 
3. 
Upon the request of either Party, and in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 5.12 (Consultations), the Parties shall hold consultations regarding the situation 
within 15 calendar days of the notification. These consultations shall be carried out in order 
to avoid unnecessary disruptions to trade. The Parties may consider options for the 
facilitation of the implementation or the replacement of the measures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.14 
 
Equivalence 
 
1. 
The Parties may recognise the equivalence of an individual measure, groups of 
measures or systems applicable to a sector or to a part of a sector in accordance with 
paragraphs 4 to 7. The recognition of equivalence shall be applied to trade between the 
Parties in animals and animal products, plants and plant products, or, as appropriate, to 
related goods. 
 
2. 
Where equivalence has not been recognised, trade shall take place under the 
conditions required by the importing Party to meet its appropriate level of protection. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 15 
 
3. 
The recognition of equivalence requires an assessment and acceptance of: 
 
(a) 
existing SPS measures in legislation, standards and procedures, including controls 
related to inspection and certification systems to ensure that the SPS measures of 
both the exporting Party and the importing Party are met; 
 
(b) 
the documented structure of the competent authorities, their powers, their chain of 
command, their modus operandi and the resources available to them; and 
 
(c) 
the performance of the competent authority in relation to the control programmes 
and assurances. 
 
4. 
In their assessments, the Parties shall take account of experience already acquired. 
 
5. 
The importing Party shall accept a sanitary or phytosanitary measure of the 
exporting Party as equivalent if the exporting Party objectively demonstrates that its 
measure achieves the importing Party's appropriate level of protection. For this purpose, 
reasonable access shall be given, upon request, to the importing Party for inspection, testing 
and other relevant procedures. 
 
6. 
The Parties will take into account guidance of the Codex Alimentarius, OIE, IPPC and 
the WTO SPS Committee in recognising equivalence. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 16 
 
7. 
Furthermore, where equivalence has been recognised, the Parties may agree on a 
simplified model for the official sanitary or phytosanitary certificates that are necessary for 
each consignment of animals or animal products, plants or plant products, or other related 
goods intended for importation. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.15 
 
Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
1. 
The Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (hereinafter referred to as 
the "SPS Committee") established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees) shall 
include representatives of the competent authorities of the Parties. 
 
2. 
The SPS Committee shall meet within one year of the entry into force of this 
Agreement. Thereafter it shall meet at least once a year or as agreed by the Parties. The SPS 
Committee shall establish its rules of procedure at its first meeting. It shall meet in person, 
by telephone conference, by video-conference, or through any other means, as agreed by 
the Parties. 
 
3. 
The SPS Committee may agree to establish technical working groups consisting of 
experts of the Parties, which shall identify and address technical and scientific issues arising 
under this Chapter and shall explore opportunities for further collaboration on SPS matters 
of mutual interest. When additional expertise is needed, persons other than representatives 
of the Parties may participate in the work of a technical working group. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 17 
 
4. 
The SPS Committee may address any matter related to the effective functioning of 
this Chapter. In particular, it shall have the following responsibilities and functions: 
 
(a) 
developing the necessary procedures or arrangements for the implementation of this 
Chapter, including Annexes 5-A and 5-B; 
 
(b) 
monitoring the implementation of this Chapter; and 
 
(c) 
providing a forum for discussion of problems arising from the application of certain 
SPS measures with a view to reaching mutually acceptable solutions. In this 
connection, the SPS Committee shall be convened as a matter of urgency, at the 
request of a Party, so as to carry out consultations. Such consultations are without 
prejudice to the rights and obligations of the Parties under Chapter Fourteen (Dispute 
Settlement) and Chapter Fifteen (Mediation Mechanism). 
 
5. 
The SPS Committee shall exchange information, expertise and experiences in the 
field of animal welfare in order to promote the collaboration on animal welfare between the 
Parties. 
 
6. 
The Parties may, by decision in the SPS Committee, adopt recommendations and 
decisions related to the authorisation of imports, exchange of information, transparency, 
recognition of regionalisation, equivalency and alternative measures, and any other matter 
referred to under paragraphs 4 and 5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 5 - 18 
 
ARTICLE 5.16 
 
Technical Consultations 
 
1. 
Where a Party considers that a measure of the other Party is or might be contrary to 
the obligations under this Chapter, and considers that the measure causes or may cause an 
unjustified disruption to trade, it may request technical consultations in the SPS Committee 
with a view to reaching mutually acceptable solutions. The competent authorities set out in 
Annex 5-A shall facilitate these consultations. 
 
2. 
Technical consultations in the SPS Committee shall be deemed concluded within 30 
days following the date of submission of the request for technical consultations, unless the 
consulting Parties agree to continue with the consultations. The technical consultations may 
be made via telephone conference, video-conference, or any other mechanism agreed by 
the Parties. 
 
