 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 1 
 
CHAPTER TEN 
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.1 
 
Objectives 
 
1. 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a) 
facilitate the production and commercialisation of innovative and creative products 
and the provision of services between the Parties; and 
 
(b) 
increase the benefits from trade and investment through the adequate and effective 
level of protection of intellectual property rights and the provision of measures for the 
effective enforcement of such rights. 
 
2. 
The objectives and principles set forth in Part I of the TRIPS Agreement, in particular 
in Article 7 (Objectives) and Article 8 (Principles) shall apply to this Chapter, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 2 
 
SECTION A 
 
PRINCIPLES 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.2 
 
Scope and Definitions 
 
1. 
The Parties recall the commitments under the international treaties dealing with 
intellectual property, including the TRIPS Agreement and the Paris Convention for the 
Protection of Industrial Property of 20 March 1883, as revised at Stockholm on 15 July 1967 
(hereinafter referred to as the "Paris Convention"). The provisions of this Chapter shall 
complement the rights and obligations of the Parties under the TRIPS Agreement and other 
international treaties in the field of intellectual property to which they both are parties. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, "intellectual property rights" means: 
 
(a) 
all categories of intellectual property that are the subject of Sections 1 to 7 of Part II of 
the TRIPS Agreement namely: 
 
(i) 
copyright and related rights; 
 
(ii) 
patents;1 
 
                                                           
1 
In the case of the Union, for the purposes of this Chapter, "patents" include rights derived from 
supplementary protection certificates. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 3 
 
(iii) 
trademarks; 
 
(iv) 
designs; 
 
(v) 
layout-designs (topographies) of integrated circuits; 
 
(vi) 
geographical indications; 
 
(vii) protection of undisclosed information; and 
 
(b) 
plant variety rights. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.3 
 
Exhaustion 
 
Each Party shall be free to establish its own regime for the exhaustion of intellectual 
property rights subject to the relevant provisions of the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 4 
 
SECTION B 
 
STANDARDS CONCERNING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
 
SUB-SECTION A 
 
COPYRIGHT AND RELATED RIGHTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.4 
 
Protection Granted 
 
The Parties shall comply with the rights and obligations set out in the Berne Convention for 
the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works of 9 September 1886 (as last revised at Paris on 
July 24, 1971), the WIPO Copyright Treaty, adopted in Geneva on 20 December 1996, 
the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty, adopted in Geneva on 20 December 1996, 
and the TRIPS Agreement.2 The Parties may provide for the protection of performers, 
producers of phonograms and broadcasting organisations in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the International Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of 
Phonograms and Broadcasting Organisations, done at Rome on 26 October 1961. 
 
 
                                                           
2 
Without prejudice to Article 10.6 (Producers of Phonograms), the Parties recognise that references to 
these international agreements are subject to the reservations which each Party has formulated in relation 
thereto. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 5 
 
ARTICLE 10.5 
 
Term of Protection 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that, where the term of protection of a work is to be 
calculated on the basis of the life of the author, the term shall be not less than the life of the 
author and 70 years after the author's death. 
 
2. 
In the case of a work of joint authorship, the term referred to in paragraph 1 shall be 
calculated from the death of the last surviving author. 
 
3. 
The term of protection of cinematographic works3 shall be not less than 70 years 
after the work has been made available to the public with the consent of the author or, 
failing such an event within 50 years of the making of the work, at least 70 years after the 
making of the work.4 
 
4. 
The term of protection for rights in phonograms shall be not less than 50 years after 
the making of the phonogram, and, if published within this period, no less than 70 years 
after the first lawful publication of the phonogram. 
 
                                                           
3 
For the Union, the term "cinematographic works" also includes audiovisual works. 
4 
In the case of the Union, the term of protection expires 70 years after the death of the last person 
designated as author under its domestic law, which will not in any case be shorter than the minimum duration 
of protection provided under paragraph 3 of Article 10.5 (Term of Protection). 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 6 
 
5. 
The term of protection for rights in broadcasts shall be not less than 50 years after 
the first transmission or the making of the broadcast. 
 
6. 
The terms laid down in this Article shall be calculated from the first of January of the 
year following the event which gives rise to them. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.6 
 
Producers of Phonograms 
 
Each Party shall provide producers of phonograms5 with the right to a single equitable 
remuneration if a phonogram published for commercial purposes, or a reproduction of such 
phonogram, is used for broadcasting by wireless means or for public performance.6,7 
 
 
                                                           
5 
"Producer of a phonogram" means the person or the legal entity, who or which takes the initiative 
and has the responsibility for the first fixation of the sounds of a performance or other sounds, or the 
representations of sounds. 
6 
"Public performance" means, in relation to a phonogram, any mode of aural presentation to the 
public of sounds or representations of sounds fixed in a phonogram. 
7 
Singapore shall fully implement the obligations of this Article within two years of the entry into force 
of this Agreement. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 7 
 
ARTICLE 10.7 
 
Resale Rights 
 
The Parties agree to exchange views and information on practices and policies with regard 
to the resale rights of artists. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.8 
 
Cooperation on Collective Management of Rights 
 
The Parties shall endeavour to promote dialogue and cooperation among their respective 
collective management societies for the purpose of ensuring easier access and delivery of 
content between the territories of the Parties, and ensuring the transfer of royalties arising 
from the use of works or other copyright-protected subject matter. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 8 
 
ARTICLE 10.9 
 
Protection of Technological Measures 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies 
against the circumvention of any effective technological measures8 that are used by 
authors, performers or producers of phonograms in connection with the exercise of their 
rights in, and that restrict acts in respect of, their works, performances, and phonograms, 
which are not authorised by the authors, the performers or the producers of phonograms 
concerned or permitted by domestic law.9 
 
2. 
In order to provide the adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies 
referred to in paragraph 1, each Party shall provide protection at least against: 
 
(a) 
to the extent provided by its domestic law: 
 
(i) 
the unauthorised circumvention of an effective technological measure carried 
out knowingly or with reasonable grounds to know; and; 
 
(ii) 
the offering to the public by marketing of a device or product, including 
computer programs, or a service, as a means of circumventing an effective 
technological measure; and 
                                                           
8 
For the purposes of this Article, "technological measures" means any technology, device or 
component that, in the normal course of its operation, is designed to prevent or restrict acts, in respect of 
works, performances, or phonograms, which are not authorised by authors, performers or producers of 
phonograms, as provided for by each Party's domestic law. Without prejudice to the scope of copyright or 
related rights contained in each Party's domestic law, technological measures shall be deemed effective where 
the use of protected works, performances, or phonograms is controlled by authors, performers or producers 
of phonograms through the application of a relevant access control or protection process, such as encryption 
or scrambling, or a copy control mechanism, which achieves the objective of protection. 
9 
Nothing in this Chapter shall require Singapore to restrict the importation or domestic sale of a device 
that does not render effective a technological measure which sole purpose is to control market segmentation 
for legitimate copies of motion pictures, and is not otherwise a violation of its domestic law. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 9 
 
 
(b) 
the manufacture, importation, or distribution of a device or product, including 
computer programs, or provision of a service that: 
 
(i) 
is primarily designed or produced for the purpose of circumventing an effective 
technological measure; or 
 
(ii) 
has only a limited commercially significant purpose other than circumventing an 
effective technological measure.10 
 
3. 
In providing adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies pursuant to 
paragraph 1, a Party may adopt or maintain appropriate limitations, or exceptions to, 
measures implementing paragraphs 1 and 2. The obligations under paragraphs 1 and 2 are 
without prejudice to the rights, limitations, exceptions, or defences to copyright or related 
rights infringement under each Party's domestic law. 
                                                           
10 
In implementing paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, neither Party shall be obligated to require that the 
design of, or the design and selection of parts and components for, a consumer electronics product, 
telecommunications product or computing product, provide for a response to any particular technological 
measure, so long as the product does not otherwise contravene its measures implementing these paragraphs. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 10 
 
ARTICLE 10.10 
 
Protection of Rights Management Information 
 
1. 
To protect electronic rights management information,11 each Party shall provide 
adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies against any person knowingly 
performing without authority any of the following acts knowing or, with respect to civil 
remedies, having reasonable grounds to know, that it will induce, enable, facilitate or 
conceal an infringement of any copyright or related rights. Such acts are: 
 
(a) 
the removal or alteration of any electronic rights management information; and 
 
(b) 
the distribution, import for distribution, broadcast, communication, or making 
available to the public copies of works, performances, or phonograms, knowing that 
electronic rights management information has been removed or altered without 
authority. 
 
2. 
In providing adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies pursuant to 
paragraph 1, a Party may adopt or maintain appropriate limitations, or exceptions to, 
measures implementing paragraph 1. The obligations under paragraph 1 are without 
prejudice to the rights, limitations, exceptions or defences to copyright or related rights 
infringement under a Party's domestic law 
. 
                                                           
11 
For the purposes of this Article, "rights management information" means: 
(a) information that identifies the work, the performance, or the phonogram; the author of the 
work, the performer of the performance, or the producer of the phonogram; or the owner of 
any right in the work, performance or phonogram; 
(b) information about the terms and conditions of use of the work, performance, or phonogram; 
or 
(c) any number or codes that represent the information described in subparagraphs (a) and (b), 
when any of these items of information is attached to a copy of a work, performance, or phonogram, or 
appears in connection with the communication or making available of a work, performance or phonogram to 
the public. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 11 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.11 
 
Exceptions and Limitations 
 
The Parties may provide for limitations or exceptions to the rights under Article 10.6 
(Producers of Phonograms) only in certain special cases which do not conflict with a normal 
exploitation of the work or other subject matter and do not unreasonably prejudice the 
legitimate interests of the right holders. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 12 
 
SUB-SECTION B 
 
TRADEMARKS 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.12 
 
International Agreements 
 
Each Party shall make all reasonable efforts to comply with the Trademark Law Treaty, done 
at Geneva on 27 October 1994, and with the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks, 
adopted in Singapore on 27 March 2006.12 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.13 
 
Registration Procedure 
 
Each Party shall provide for a system for the registration of trademarks in which the relevant 
trademark administration shall give reasons in writing for any refusal to register a 
trademark. The applicant shall have the opportunity to appeal against such refusal before a 
judicial authority. Each Party shall introduce the possibility for third parties to oppose 
trademark applications. Each Party shall provide a publicly available electronic database of 
trademark applications and trademark registrations. 
 
 
                                                           
12 
Singapore is a party to the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks, while the Union shall make all 
reasonable efforts to facilitate accession to the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 13 
 
ARTICLE 10.14 
 
Well-Known Trademarks 
 
The Parties shall protect well-known trademarks in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement. 
In determining whether a trademark is well-known, the Parties shall give consideration to 
the Joint Recommendation Concerning Provisions on the Protection of Well-Known Marks, 
adopted by the Assembly of the Paris Union for the Protection of Industrial Property and the 
General Assembly of the WIPO at the Thirty-Fourth Series of Meetings of the Assemblies of 
the Member States of WIPO on 20 to 29 September 1999. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.15 
 
Exceptions to the Rights Conferred by a Trademark 
 
Each Party: 
 
(a) 
shall provide for the fair use of descriptive terms13 as a limited exception to the rights 
conferred by trademarks; and 
 
(b) 
may provide for other limited exceptions, 
 
provided that these exceptions take account of the legitimate interests of the owners of the 
trademarks and of third parties. 
 
 
                                                           
13 
The fair use of descriptive terms includes the use of a sign to indicate the geographic origin of the 
goods or services, and where such use is in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial 
matters. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 14 
 
SUB-SECTION C 
 
GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS14 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.16 
 
Scope 
 
1. 
Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) applies to the recognition and protection of 
geographical indications for wines, spirits, agricultural products and foodstuffs which are 
originating in the territories of the Parties. 
 
2. 
Geographical indications of a Party that are to be protected by the other Party shall 
only be subject to Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) if they are recognised and 
declared as geographical indications in their country of origin. 
 
 
                                                           
14 
For the purposes of this Chapter, "geographical indications" means indications which identify a good 
as originating in the territory of a Party, or a region or locality in that territory, where a given quality, 
reputation or other characteristic of the good is essentially attributable to its geographical origin. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 15 
 
ARTICLE 10.17 
 
System of Protection of Geographical Indications 
 
1. 
Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, each Party shall establish systems for 
the registration and protection of geographical indications in its territory for such categories 
of wines and spirits and agricultural products and foodstuffs as it deems appropriate. 
 
2. 
The systems referred to in paragraph 1 shall contain elements such as: 
 
(a) 
a domestic register; 
 
(b) 
an administrative process to verify that the geographical indications entered, or to be 
entered, on the domestic register referred to in subparagraph 2(a), identify a good as 
originating in the territory of a Party, or a region or locality in that Party's territory, 
where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the good is essentially 
attributable to their geographical origin; 
 
(c) 
an objection procedure that allows the legitimate interests of third parties to be taken 
into account; and 
 
(d) 
legal means that permit the rectification and cancellation of entries on the domestic 
register referred to in subparagraph 2(a), that take into account the legitimate 
interests of third parties and the right holders of the registered geographical 
indications in question. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 16 
 
3. 
The Parties shall, as soon as practicable after the procedures for protection of 
geographical indications in each Party15 have been concluded for all the names listed in 
Annex 10-A, meet to adopt a decision in the Trade Committee referred to under Article 16.1 
(Trade Committee) regarding the listing in Annex 10-B of the names from Annex 10-A of 
each Party that have been and remain protected as geographical indications under the 
respective Party's system referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.18 
 
Amendment of List of Geographical Indications 
 
The Parties agree on the possibility of amending the list of geographical indications for 
wines, spirits, agricultural products and foodstuffs listed in Annex 10-B to be protected by 
each Party under Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications). Such amendments to Annex 10-B 
shall be subject to the geographical indications having been and remaining protected as 
geographical indications under the respective Party's system referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Article 10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical Indications). 
 
 
                                                           
15 
For the purposes of Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications), in the case of Singapore, the procedure 
for protection of geographical indications refers to the domestic registration procedure under the system 
established by Singapore pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical 
Indications). 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 17 
 
ARTICLE 10.19 
 
Scope of Protection of Geographical Indications 
 
1. 
Subject to Article 10.22 (General Rules), in respect of geographical indications for 
wines, spirits, agricultural products and foodstuffs listed in Annex 10-B that remain 
protected as geographical indications under its system as referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Article 10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical Indications), each Party shall provide the 
legal means for interested parties to prevent: 
 
(a) 
the use of any means in the designation or presentation of a good that indicates or 
suggests that the good in question originates in a geographical area other than its true 
place of origin in a manner which misleads the public as to the geographical origin of 
the good; and 
 
(b) 
any other use which constitutes an act of unfair competition within the meaning of 
Article 10bis (Unfair Competition) of the Paris Convention. 
 
2. 
Subject to Article 10.22 (General Rules), in respect of geographical indications for 
wines and spirits listed in Annex 10-B that remain protected as geographical indications 
under its system as referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 10.17 (System of Protection of 
Geographical Indications), each Party shall provide the legal means for interested parties to 
prevent the use of any such geographical indication identifying wines for wines not 
originating in the place indicated by the geographical indication in question or identifying 
spirits for spirits not originating in the place indicated by the geographical indication in 
question, even where: 
 
(a) 
the true origin of the good is indicated; 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 18 
 
(b) 
the geographical indication is used in translation; or 
 
(c) 
the geographical indication is accompanied by expressions such as "kind", "type", 
"style", "imitation", or the like. 
 
3. 
Subject to Article 10.22 (General Rules), in respect of geographical indications for 
agricultural products and foodstuffs listed in Annex 10-B that remain protected as 
geographical indications under the Party's system as referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 
10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical Indications), each Party shall provide the legal 
means for interested parties to prevent the use of any such geographical indication 
identifying a good for a like good16 not originating in the place indicated by the geographical 
indication in question, even where: 
 
(a) 
the true origin of the good is indicated; 
 
(b) 
the geographical indication is used in translation;17 or 
 
(c) 
the geographical indication is accompanied by expressions such as "kind", "type", 
"style", "imitation", or the like. 
 
                                                           
16 
For the purposes of this paragraph and paragraph 1 of Article 10.21 (Relationship with Trademarks), 
the term "like good", in relation to a good for which a geographical indication has been protected in a Party's 
system as referred to in Article 10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical Indications), means a good that 
would fall within the same category of good in that Party's register as the good for which a geographical 
indication has been registered. 
17 
For greater certainty, it is understood that this is assessed on a case-by-case basis. This provision does 
not apply where evidence is provided that there is no link between the protected geographical indication and 
the translated term. It is further understood that this provision applies without prejudice to the general rules 
of Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications). 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 19 
 
 
4. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall require a Party to apply its 
provisions in respect of a geographical indication in the case of the failure of a right holder 
to: 
 
(a) 
renew the registration of the geographical indication in that Party's market; or 
 
(b) 
maintain minimal commercial activity or interest in the geographical indication in that 
Party's market, including commercialisation, promotion or market monitoring. 
 
5. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 3 of Article 23 of the TRIPS Agreement, each Party 
shall determine the practical conditions under which homonymous geographical indications 
will be differentiated from each other in its territory, taking into account the need to ensure 
equitable treatment of the producers concerned and the need to ensure that consumers are 
not misled. 
 
6. 
Where a Party receives an application for registration or protection of a geographical 
indication that is homonymous with one of the geographical indications in Annex 10-B, that 
Party will take into consideration the views and submissions of the applicant and the 
producers concerned18 in determining the conditions under which the homonymous 
geographical indications will be differentiated from each other. 
 
 
                                                           
18 
In the case of Singapore, "the producers concerned" refers to the right holders in question. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 20 
 
ARTICLE 10.20 
 
Right of Use of Geographical Indications 
 
The persons who may use a geographical indication protected under Sub-Section C 
(Geographical Indications) are not limited to the applicant, provided that such use relates to 
the goods as identified by that geographical indication. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.21 
 
Relationship with Trademarks 
 
1. 
Subject to Article 10.22 (General Rules), in respect of geographical indications listed 
in Annex 10-B that remain protected as geographical indications under a Party's system as 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical 
Indications), the registration of a trademark for goods which contains or consists of a 
geographical indication that identifies like goods shall be refused or invalidated ex officio if 
that Party's domestic law so permits, or at the request of an interested party, with respect 
to goods not having the origin of the geographical indication concerned, provided that the 
application to register the trademark is submitted after the date of application for the 
registration of the geographical indication in the territory concerned. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 21 
 
2. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 4, the Parties acknowledge that the existence of a 
prior conflicting trademark in the territory of a Party would not completely preclude the 
registration of a subsequent geographical indication for like goods in that Party.19 
 
3. 
Where a trademark has been applied for or has been registered in good faith, or 
where rights to a trademark have been acquired through use in good faith, if that possibility 
is provided by the Parties' respective domestic laws, and such application, registration or 
acquisition takes place either: 
 
(a) 
before the date of application for protection of the geographical indication in the 
territory concerned; or 
 
(b) 
before the geographical indication is protected in its country of origin, 
 
any measures adopted to implement Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall not 
prejudice the eligibility for or the validity of the registration of a trademark, or the right to 
use a trademark, on the basis that such a trademark is identical with, or similar to, a 
geographical indication. 
 
4. 
The Parties shall have no obligation to protect a geographical indication pursuant to 
Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) where, in the light of a reputed or well-known 
trademark, such protection is liable to mislead consumers as to the true identity of the 
product. 
 
 
                                                           
19 
In the case of Singapore, a geographical indication which conflicts with a prior existing trademark is 
capable of being registered with the consent of the prior existing trademark rights holder. In the case of the 
Union, such consent is not a prerequisite to the registration of a geographical indication which conflicts with a 
prior existing trademark. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 22 
 
ARTICLE 10.22 
 
General Rules 
 
1. 
The conditions for import, export and commercialisation of the products referred to 
in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) in the territory of a Party shall be governed by 
the domestic law of that Party. 
 
2. 
For agricultural products and foodstuffs, nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical 
Indications) shall require a Party to prevent the continued and similar use by any of its 
nationals or domiciliaries of any geographical indication of the other Party in connection 
with goods or services, where those nationals or domiciliaries have used that geographical 
indication in a continuous manner with regard to the same or related goods or services in 
the territory of that Party either: 
 
(a) 
for at least ten years preceding 1st January 2004; or 
 
(b) 
in good faith preceding that date. 
 
3. 
In relation to the geographical indications to be listed in Annex 10-B, where prior use 
has been determined pursuant to: 
 
(a) 
the opposition proceedings during the domestic registration procedures; or 
 
(b) 
any legal proceedings, 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 23 
 
such prior use shall be listed in Annex 10-B, in respect of the geographical indication in 
question, in accordance with: 
 
(i) 
the mechanism established in paragraph 3 of Article 10.17 (System of Protection of 
Geographical Indications), in the case of subparagraph 3(a); and 
 
(ii) 
the mechanism established in Article 10.18 (Amendment of List of Geographical 
Indications), in the case of subparagraph 3(b). 
 
4. 
Each Party may determine the practical conditions under which such prior use will be 
differentiated from the geographical indication in its territory, taking into account the need 
to ensure that consumers are not misled. 
 
5. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall require a Party to apply its 
provisions in respect of a geographical indication of the other Party with respect to goods or 
services for which the relevant indication is identical to the term customary in common 
language as the common name for such goods or services in the territory of that Party. 
 
6. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall require a Party to apply its 
provisions in respect of any name contained in a geographical indication of the other Party 
with respect to goods or services for which the name is identical to the term customary in 
common language as the common name for such goods or services in the territory of that 
Party. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 24 
 
7. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall require a Party to apply its 
provisions in respect of a geographical indication of the other Party with respect to products 
of the vine for which the relevant indication is identical to the customary name of a grape 
variety existing in the territory of that Party as of the date of entry into force of the WTO 
Agreement in that Party. 
 
8. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall prevent a Party from 
protecting as a geographical indication, in accordance with its domestic law, a term that 
conflicts with the name of a plant variety or animal breed. 
 
9. 
A Party may provide that any request made under Sub-Section C (Geographical 
Indications) in connection with the use or registration of a trademark must be presented 
within five years after the adverse use of the protected indication has become generally 
known in that Party or within five years after the date of registration of the trademark in 
that Party, provided that the trademark has been published by that date, if the date of 
registration is earlier than the date on which the adverse use became generally known in 
that Party, and provided that the geographical indication is not used or registered in bad 
faith. 
 
10. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall prejudice the right of any 
person to use, in the course of trade, that person's name or the name of that person's 
predecessor in business, except where such name is used in such a manner as to mislead the 
public. 
 
11. 
Nothing in Sub-Section C (Geographical Indications) shall oblige a Party to protect a 
geographical indication of the other Party which is not or has ceased to be protected in 
accordance with the domestic law of its country of origin. The Parties shall notify each other 
if a geographical indication ceases to be protected in its country of origin. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 25 
 
ARTICLE 10.23 
 
Relation to Trade Committee 
 
The Trade Committee established pursuant to Article 16.1 (Trade Committee) shall have the 
authority to: 
 
(a) 
adopt decisions regarding the listing in Annex 10-B referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Article 10.17 (System of Protection of Geographical Indications); and 
 
(b) 
amend Annex 10-B in accordance with Article 10.18 (Amendment of List of 
Geographical Indications). 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 26 
 
SUB-SECTION D 
 
DESIGNS 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.24 
 
Requirements for Protection of Registered Designs20 
 
1. 
The Parties shall provide for the protection of independently created designs that 
are new or original.21 This protection shall be provided by registration and shall confer 
exclusive rights upon their holders in accordance with the provisions of Sub-Section D 
(Designs).22 
 
                                                           
20 
For the purposes of Sub-Section (Designs), the Union also grants protection to the unregistered design 
when it meets the requirements of Council Regulation (EC) No 6/2002 of 12 December 2001 on Community 
designs, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1891/2006 of 18 December 2006. 
21 
The Parties agree that when the domestic law of a Party so provides, individual character of designs 
can also be required. This refers to designs that significantly differ from known designs or combinations of 
known designs' features. The Union considers designs to have individual character if the overall impression it 
produces on the informed users differs from the overall impression produced on such a user by any design 
which has been made available to the public. 
22 
It is understood that designs are not excluded from protection simply on the basis that they 
constitute a part of an article or product, provided that they are visible, fulfil the criteria of this paragraph, 
and: 
(a) 
fulfil any other criteria for design protection; and 
(b) 
are not otherwise excluded from design protection, 
under the Parties' respective domestic law. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 27 
 
2. 
Design protection shall not extend to designs dictated essentially by technical or 
functional considerations. 
 
3. 
A design right shall not subsist in a design which is contrary to public policy or to 
accepted principles of morality.23 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.25 
 
Rights Conferred by Registration 
 
The owner of a protected design shall have the right to prevent third parties who do not 
have the owner's consent from at least making, offering for sale, selling or importing articles 
that bear or embody a design which is a copy, or is substantially a copy, of the protected 
design, where such acts are undertaken for commercial purposes. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.26 
 
Term of Protection 
 
The available term of protection shall be at least ten years from the date of application. 
 
 
                                                           
23 
Nothing in this Article precludes either Party from providing other specified exclusions from design 
protection under its domestic law. The Parties understand that such exclusions shall not be extensive. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 28 
 
ARTICLE 10.27 
 
Exceptions 
 
Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the protection of designs, provided that such 
exceptions do not unreasonably conflict with the normal exploitation of protected designs, 
and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the owner of the protected 
design, taking into account the legitimate interests of third parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.28 
 
Relationship to Copyright 
 
Each Party shall offer the possibility that a design registered in the territory of a Party in 
accordance with Sub-Section D (Designs) is not completely precluded from enjoying 
protection under the domestic law of copyright of that Party. The extent to which, and the 
conditions under which, such protection is enjoyed shall be determined by that Party.24 
 
 
                                                           
24 
In the case of Singapore, the extent to which, and the conditions under which, such protection is 
enjoyed include the circumstances under section 74 of Singapore's Copyright Act. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 29 
 
SUB-SECTION E 
 
PATENTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.29 
 
International Agreements 
 
The Parties recall the obligations under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (done at Washington 
on 19 June 1970, amended on 28 September 1979, and modified on 3 February 1984). The 
Parties shall, where appropriate, make all reasonable efforts to comply with Article 1 to 
Article 16 of the Patent Law Treaty, adopted in Geneva on 1 June 2000, in a manner 
consistent with their domestic law and procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.30 
 
Patents and Public Health 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of the Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and 
Public Health, adopted on 14 November 2001 by the Ministerial Conference of the WTO at 
Doha. In interpreting and implementing the rights and obligations under Sub-Section E 
(Patents) and Sub-Section F (Protection of Test Data Submitted to Obtain an Administrative 
Marketing Approval to put a Pharmaceutical Product on the Market), the Parties shall 
ensure consistency with this Declaration. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 30 
 
2. 
Each Party shall respect the Decision of the WTO General Council of 30 August 2003 
on Implementation of Paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and 
Public Health, as well as the Decision of the WTO General Council of 6 December 2005 on 
Amendment of the TRIPS Agreement, adopting the Protocol Amending the TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.31 
 
Extension of the Duration of the Rights Conferred by a Patent 
 
The Parties recognise that pharmaceutical products25 protected by a patent in their 
respective territories may be subject to an administrative marketing approval process 
before being put on their respective markets. The Parties shall make available an extension 
of the duration of the rights conferred by the patent protection to compensate the patent 
owner for the reduction in the effective patent life as a result of the administrative 
marketing approval process.26 The extension of the duration of the rights conferred by the 
patent protection may not exceed five years.27 
 
 
                                                           
25 
For the purposes of this Article and Article 10.33 (Protection of Test Data Submitted to Obtain an 
Administrative Marketing Approval to put a Pharmaceutical Product on the Market), the term "pharmaceutical 
product" shall be defined for each Party by the respective legislations of the Parties as at the date of signature 
of this Agreement. In the case of the Union, the term "pharmaceutical product" refers to "medicinal product". 
26 
Singapore undertakes to make available an extension of the duration of the rights conferred by 
patent protection to compensate the patent owner for the reduction in the effective patent life as the result of 
the administrative marketing approval process to substances for diagnosis or testing and authorised as a 
medicinal product. 
27 
The conditions and procedures for the provision of the extension of the patent term shall be 
determined by the respective legislations of the Parties. This is without prejudice to a possible extension for 
paediatric purposes, if provided for by either Party. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 31 
 
ARTICLE 10.32 
 
Cooperation 
 
The Parties agree to cooperate on initiatives to facilitate: 
 
(a) 
the granting of patents on the basis of applications filed by applicants of a Party in the 
other Party; and 
 
(b) 
the qualification and recognition of patent agent professionals of a Party in the 
territory of the other Party. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 32 
 
SUB-SECTION F 
 
PROTECTION OF TEST DATA 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.33 
 
Protection of Test Data Submitted to Obtain an Administrative Marketing Approval  
to put a Pharmaceutical Product on the Market 
 
Where a Party requires the submission of test data or studies concerning the safety and 
efficacy of a pharmaceutical product prior to granting approval for the marketing of such 
product, that Party shall not, for a period of at least five years from the date of approval in 
that Party, permit third parties to market the same or a similar product on the basis of the 
marketing approval granted to the party which had provided the test data or studies, unless 
that party has given its consent.28,29,30 
 
 
                                                           
28 
The conditions and procedures for the provision of the protection contemplated under this Article 
shall be determined by the respective legislations of the Parties. 
29 
The Parties shall, five years after the entry into force of this Agreement, initiate without prejudice 
discussions on the possible extension of the duration of the protection of test data submitted to obtain an 
administrative marketing approval to put a pharmaceutical product on the market. 
30 
In the context of this Article, it is understood that such confidential supporting test data or studies 
shall not be used for the purpose of determining whether to grant any other application for a period of at least 
five years: 
(a) 
in the case of Singapore, from the date that the first application is received; 
(b) 
in the case of the Union, from the date of approval of the first application, 
unless the party which had provided the test data or studies has given his consent. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 33 
 
ARTICLE 10.34 
 
Protection of Test Data Submitted  
to Obtain an Administrative Marketing Approval  
to put an Agricultural Chemical Product31 on the Market 
 
1. 
Where a Party requires the submission of test data or studies concerning the safety 
and efficacy of an agricultural chemical product prior to the granting of approval for the 
marketing of such product in that Party, the Party shall not, for a period of at least ten years 
from the date of approval, permit third parties to market the same or a similar product on 
the basis of the marketing approval granted to the party which had provided the test data 
or studies, unless that party has given its consent. 
 
                                                           
31 
In the case of the Union, for the purposes of this Article, "agricultural chemical products" means 
active substances and preparations containing one or more active substances, put up in the form in which they 
are supplied to the user, intended to: 
(a) protect plants or plant products against all harmful organisms or prevent the action of such 
organisms, in so far as such substances or preparations are not otherwise defined in 
subparagraphs (b) to (e); 
(b) influence the life processes of plants, other than as a nutrient (e.g. plant growth regulators); 
(c) preserve plant products, in so far as such substances or products are not subject to special 
Council or Commission provisions on preservatives; 
(d) destroy undesirable plants; or 
 
(e) destroy parts of plants, check or prevent undesirable growth of plants. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 34 
 
2. 
Where a Party provides for measures or procedures to avoid duplicative testing on 
vertebrate animals with respect to agricultural chemical products, that Party may provide 
for the conditions and circumstances under which third parties may market the same or 
similar product on the basis of the marketing approval granted to the party which had 
provided the test data or studies. 
 
3. 
Where a Party requires the submission of test data or studies concerning the safety 
or efficacy of an agricultural chemical product prior to the granting of an approval for the 
marketing of such product, that Party shall endeavour to make best efforts to process the 
application expeditiously, with a view to avoiding unreasonable delays. 
 
 
SUB-SECTION G 
 
PLANT VARIETIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.35 
 
International Agreements 
 
The Parties affirm their obligations under the International Convention for the Protection of 
New Varieties of Plants adopted in Paris on 2 December 1961, as last revised in Geneva on 
19 March 1991, including their ability to implement the optional exception to the breeder's 
right, as referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 15 of that Convention. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 35 
 
SECTION C 
 
CIVIL ENFORCEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.36 
 
General Obligations 
 
1. 
The Parties affirm their commitments under Articles 41 to 50 of the TRIPS 
Agreement, and shall provide for the measures, procedures and remedies under their 
respective domestic law against acts of infringement of intellectual property rights covered 
by this Chapter, that are in compliance with such commitments. 
 
2. 
In particular, the measures, procedures and remedies referred to in paragraph 1, and 
provided for by each Party under its domestic law, shall: 
 
(a) 
take into account, as appropriate, the need for proportionality between the 
seriousness of the infringement and the interests of third parties; 
 
(b) 
be fair and equitable; 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 36 
 
(c) 
not be unnecessarily complicated or costly, or entail unreasonable time limits or 
unwarranted delays; and 
 
(d) 
be applied in such a manner as to avoid the creation of barriers to legitimate trade 
and to provide for safeguards against their abuse. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the capacity of either Party to enforce its 
domestic law in general or create any obligation on either Party to amend its existing laws 
as they relate to the enforcement of intellectual property rights. Without prejudice to the 
foregoing general principles, nothing in this Chapter shall create any obligation on either 
Party: 
 
(a) 
to put in place a judicial system for the enforcement of intellectual property rights 
that is distinct from that for the enforcement of law in general; or 
 
(b) 
with respect to the distribution of resources as between the enforcement of 
intellectual property rights and the enforcement of law in general. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 37 
 
ARTICLE 10.37 
 
Publication of Judicial Decisions 
 
In civil judicial proceedings instituted for infringement of an intellectual property right, each 
Party shall take appropriate measures, pursuant to its domestic law and policies, to publish 
or make available to the public information on final judicial decisions. Nothing in this Article 
shall require a Party to disclose confidential information, the disclosure of which would 
impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public interest or would prejudice 
the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or private. Each Party 
may provide for other additional publicity measures which are appropriate to the particular 
circumstances, including prominent advertising. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.38 
 
Availability of Civil Measures, Procedures and Remedies 
 
1. 
Each Party shall make available, in its respective domestic law and to right holders, 
the civil measures, procedures and remedies referred to in Section C (Civil Enforcement of 
Intellectual Property Rights) for the intellectual property rights as defined in paragraph 2. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 38 
 
2. 
For the purposes of Section C (Civil Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights), the 
following terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
"right holders" shall include exclusive licensees as well as federations and 
associations32 having the legal standing to assert such rights; and 
 
(b) 
"intellectual property rights" means all categories of intellectual property that are the 
subject of Sections 1 to 6 of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement.33 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.39 
 
Measures for Preserving Evidence 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities have the authority to order 
prompt and effective provisional measures: 
 
(a) 
against a party or, where appropriate, a third party over whom the relevant judicial 
authority exercises jurisdiction, to prevent an infringement of any intellectual property 
right from occurring, and in particular to prevent goods that involve the infringement 
of an intellectual property right from entering into the channels of commerce; and 
 
                                                           
32 
In so far as permitted by and in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law, it is understood 
that the phrase "federations and associations" includes collective rights management bodies and, in the Union 
context, professional defence bodies which are regularly recognised as having a right to represent holders of 
intellectual property rights. 
33 
A Party may exclude patents from the scope of Section C (Civil Enforcement of Intellectual Property 
Rights). 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 39 
 
(b) 
to preserve relevant evidence in regard to the alleged infringement. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities have the authority to adopt 
provisional measures inaudita altera parte where appropriate, in particular where any delay 
is likely to cause irreparable harm to the right holder or where there is a demonstrable risk 
of evidence being destroyed. In proceedings conducted inaudita altera parte, each Party 
shall provide its judicial authorities with the authority to act expeditiously on requests for 
provisional measures and to make a decision without undue delay. 
 
3. 
At least in cases of copyright or related rights infringement and in cases of trademark 
counterfeiting, each Party shall provide that in civil judicial proceedings, its judicial 
authorities, have the authority to order the seizure or taking into custody of suspect goods, 
of materials and implements relevant to the act of infringement, and, at least for trademark 
counterfeiting, of documentary evidence, either original or copies thereof, relevant to the 
infringement. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall provide that its authorities have the authority to require the 
applicant, with respect to provisional measures, to provide any reasonably available 
evidence in order to satisfy themselves with a sufficient degree of certainty that the 
applicant's right is being infringed or that such infringement is imminent, and to order the 
applicant to provide a security or equivalent assurance sufficient to protect the defendant 
and to prevent abuse. Such security or equivalent assurance shall not unreasonably deter 
recourse to procedures for such provisional measures. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 40 
 
5. 
Where the provisional measures are revoked, or where they lapse due to any act or 
omission by the applicant, or where it is subsequently found that there has been no 
infringement of an intellectual property right, the judicial authorities shall have the 
authority to order the applicant, upon the request of the defendant, to provide the 
defendant appropriate compensation for any injury caused by those measures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.40 
 
Evidence and Right of Information 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to each Party's domestic law governing privilege, the protection of 
confidentiality or the processing of personal data, each Party shall provide that, in civil 
judicial proceedings concerning the enforcement of intellectual property rights, its judicial 
authorities have the authority, upon a justified request of the right holder, to order the 
infringer or, in the alternative, the alleged infringer, to provide, to the right holder or to the 
judicial authorities, at least for the purpose of collecting evidence, relevant information as 
provided for in its applicable laws and regulations that the infringer or alleged infringer 
possesses or controls. 
 
2. 
The relevant information referred to in paragraph 1 may include information 
regarding any person involved in any aspect of the infringement or alleged infringement and 
regarding the means of production or the channels of distribution of the infringing or 
allegedly infringing goods or services, including the identification of third persons alleged to 
be involved in the production and distribution of such goods or services and of their 
channels of distribution. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 41 
 
ARTICLE 10.41 
 
Other Remedies 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that, in civil judicial proceedings where a judicial decision is 
taken finding an infringement of a right holder's intellectual property right, its judicial 
authorities shall, upon application by the right holder, have the authority, at least with 
respect to pirated copyright goods and counterfeit trademark goods, to order: 
 
(a) 
that such infringing goods, without compensation of any sort, be: 
 
(i) 
destroyed, except in exceptional circumstances; or 
 
(ii) 
disposed of outside the channels of commerce in such a manner as to avoid any 
harm caused to the right holder; and 
 
(b) 
that materials and implements, the predominant use of which has been in the 
manufacture or creation of such infringing goods, shall be, without undue delay and 
without compensation of any sort, destroyed or disposed of outside the channels of 
commerce in such a manner as to minimise the risks of further infringements. 
 
2. 
In considering any application by a right holder, as referred to in paragraph 1, the 
need for proportionality between the seriousness of the infringement and the remedies 
ordered as well as the interests of third parties shall be taken into account. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 42 
 
3. 
The remedies under this Article may be carried out at the expense of the infringer. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.42 
 
Injunctions 
 
Each Party shall provide that, in civil judicial proceedings where a judicial decision is taken 
finding an infringement of a right holder's intellectual property right, its judicial authorities 
shall, upon application by the right holder, have the authority to issue against the infringer 
or, where appropriate, against a third party over whom the relevant judicial authority 
exercises jurisdiction, an injunction aimed at prohibiting the continuation of the 
infringement. Where provided for by the Party's domestic law, non-compliance with an 
injunction shall, where appropriate, be subject to a recurring penalty payment with a view 
to ensuring compliance. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 43 
 
ARTICLE 10.43 
 
Alternative Measures 
 
Each Party may provide in its domestic law that, in civil judicial proceedings where a judicial 
decision is taken finding an infringement of a right holder's intellectual property right, in 
appropriate cases and on application by the person liable to be subject to the measures 
provided for in Article 10.41 (Other Remedies) and/or Article 10.42 (Injunctions), its judicial 
authorities have the authority to order pecuniary compensation to be paid to the injured 
party instead of applying the measures provided for in Article 10.41 (Other Remedies) 
and/or Article 10.42 (Injunctions), provided that the applicant acted unintentionally and 
without negligence, the execution of the measures in question would cause 
disproportionate harm to the applicant, and pecuniary compensation to the injured party 
appears reasonably satisfactory.34 
 
 
                                                           
34 
It is understood that, in the case of Singapore, Singapore may provide that its judicial authorities have 
the authority to order pecuniary compensation if that person acted unintentionally and without negligence, or 
if execution of the measures in question would cause him disproportionate harm and if pecuniary 
compensation to the injured party appears reasonably satisfactory. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 44 
 
ARTICLE 10.44 
 
Damages 
 
1. 
Each Party shall provide that, in civil judicial proceedings concerning the 
enforcement of intellectual property rights, its judicial authorities have the authority to 
order the infringer who, knowingly or with reasonable grounds to know, engaged in 
infringing activity to pay the right holder damages adequate to compensate for the injury 
the right holder has suffered as a result of the infringement. 
 
2. 
In determining the amount of damages for infringement of intellectual property 
rights, a Party's judicial authorities shall have the authority to consider, inter alia, any 
legitimate measure of value the right holder submits, which may include lost profits, the 
value of the infringed goods or services measured by the market price, or the suggested 
retail price.35 At least in cases of copyright or related rights infringement and trademark 
counterfeiting, each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities have the authority to 
order the infringer to pay the right holder the infringer's profits that are attributable to the 
infringement, whether as an alternative to or in addition to or as part of the damages. 
 
3. 
As an alternative to paragraph 2, each Party may provide that its judicial authorities 
have the authority, in appropriate cases, to set the damages as a lump sum on the basis of 
elements such as at least the amount of royalties or fees which would have been due if the 
infringer had requested authorisation to use the intellectual property right in question. 
 
                                                           
35 
In the case of the Union, this would also include, in appropriate cases, elements other than economic 
factors such as the moral prejudice caused to the right holder by the infringement. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 45 
 
4. 
Nothing in this Article precludes either Party from providing that where the infringer 
did not knowingly, or with reasonable grounds to know, engage in infringing activity, its 
judicial authorities may order the recovery of profits or the payment of damages which may 
be pre-established. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.45 
 
Legal Costs 
 
Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities, where appropriate, have the authority 
to order, at the conclusion of civil judicial proceedings concerning infringement of 
intellectual property rights, that the prevailing party be awarded payment by the losing 
party of court costs or fees and appropriate attorney's fees, or any other expenses as 
provided for under that Party's domestic law. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.46 
 
Presumptions Relating to Copyright and Related Rights 
 
In civil proceedings involving copyright or related rights, each Party shall provide for a 
presumption that, at least with respect to a literary or artistic work, performance or 
phonogram, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the natural or legal person whose 
name appears on such work, performance or phonogram in the usual manner, is the right 
holder and is consequently entitled to institute infringement proceedings. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 46 
 
ARTICLE 10.47 
 
Liability of Intermediary Service Providers 
 
1. 
Subject to paragraphs 2 to 6, each Party shall provide for exemptions or limitations 
in its domestic law regarding the liability of, or scope of remedies available against, service 
providers for infringements of copyright or related rights or trademarks that take place 
through systems or networks controlled or operated by them or on their behalf. 
 
2. 
The exemptions or limitations referred to in paragraph 1: 
 
(a) 
shall cover the functions of: 
 
(i) 
transmitting,36 or providing access for material without selection and/or 
modification of its content37; and 
 
(ii) 
caching carried out through an automatic process;38 and 
 
                                                           
36 
It is understood that the function of transmission includes the function of routing. 
37 
It is understood that the function of providing access for material without selection and/or 
modification of the content also refers to any means that is used to access the communication network and 
includes instances where connections are provided for the material. 
38 
It is understood that the process of caching carried out through an automatic process may refer to the 
intermediate and temporary storage of material in the course of transmission or providing access to such 
material. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 47 
 
(b) 
may also cover the functions of: 
 
(i) 
storage at the direction of a user of material residing on a system or network 
controlled or operated by or for the service provider; and 
 
(ii) 
referring or linking users to an online location by using information location 
tools, including hyperlinks and directories. 
 
3. 
Eligibility for the exemptions or limitations in this Article may not be conditioned on 
the service provider monitoring its service, or affirmatively seeking facts indicating infringing 
activity, except to the extent consistent with such technical measures. 
 
4. 
Each Party may prescribe in its domestic law, conditions for service providers to 
qualify for the exemptions or limitations in this Article. Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 to 
3, each Party may establish appropriate procedures for effective notifications of claimed 
infringement and effective counter-notifications by those whose material is removed or 
disabled through mistake or misidentification. 
 
5. 
This Article is without prejudice to the availability of defences to the infringement of 
copyright or related rights, or trademarks, that are of general applicability. This Article shall 
not affect the possibility of the court or administrative authority of a Party, in accordance 
with its legal system, requiring the service provider to terminate or prevent an infringement. 
 
6. 
Either Party may request consultations with the other Party to consider how to 
address future functions of a nature similar to those addressed in this Article. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 48 
 
SECTION D 
 
BORDER MEASURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.48 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(a) 
"counterfeit geographical indication goods" means any goods, including packaging, 
bearing, without authorisation, a sign which is identical to the geographical indication 
validly registered in respect of such goods in the territory where the goods are, or 
which cannot be distinguished in its essential aspects from such a geographical 
indication and which thereby infringes the rights of the owner or holder of the 
geographical indication in question under the domestic law of the Party where the 
goods are; 
 
(b) 
"counterfeit trademark goods" means any goods, including packaging bearing, without 
authorisation, a trademark which is identical to the trademark validly registered in 
respect of such goods, or which cannot be distinguished in its essential aspects from 
such a trademark and which thereby infringes the rights of the owner of the 
trademark in question under the domestic law of the Party where the goods are; 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 49 
 
(c) 
"goods in transit" means goods the passage of which across the territory of a Party, 
with or without transhipment, whether or not landed in the territory of the Party, 
warehousing, breaking bulk, or change in the mode of transport or conveyance, is only 
a portion of a complete journey beginning and terminating beyond the frontier of the 
Party across which territory the traffic passes; 
 
(d) 
"pirated copyright goods" means any goods which are copies made without the 
consent of the right holder or of a person duly authorised by the right holder in the 
country of production, and which are made directly or indirectly from an article where 
the making of that copy would have constituted an infringement of a copyright or a 
related right under the domestic law of the Party where the goods are; and 
 
(e) 
"pirated design goods" means any goods in respect of which the design is registered 
and to which that design or a design not substantially different from it has been 
applied without the consent of the right holder or of a person duly authorised by the 
right holder in the country of production, where the making of those goods would 
have constituted an infringement under the domestic law of the Party where the 
goods are. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 50 
 
ARTICLE 10.49 
 
Scope of Border Measures 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures 
with respect to goods under customs control under which a right holder may request its 
competent authorities to suspend the release of suspect: 
 
(a) 
counterfeit trademark goods; 
 
(b) 
pirated copyright goods; 
 
(c) 
counterfeit geographical indication goods; and 
 
(d) 
pirated design goods. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures with respect to goods under customs 
control, under which its competent authorities may act upon their own initiative to suspend 
the release of suspect:39 
 
(a) 
counterfeit trademark goods; 
 
(b) 
pirated copyright goods; and 
 
                                                           
39 
The Parties will review the possibility of including pirated design goods within the scope of paragraph 
2 of this Article within three years of the entry into force of this Agreement. The Parties may, by decision in the 
Trade Committee, amend paragraph 2 of this Article as a result of such review. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 51 
 
(c) 
counterfeit geographical indication goods. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall not have the obligation to provide for the procedures referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 2 with regards to goods in transit. This is without prejudice to paragraph 2 
of Article 10.51 (Cooperation). 
 
4. 
Singapore shall fully implement the obligations of paragraphs 1 and 2 ideally within 
two but no later than three years of the entry into force of this Agreement with regard to 
procedures with respect to: 
 
(a) 
counterfeit geographical indication goods; and 
 
(b) 
pirated design goods. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.50 
 
Identification of Shipments 
 
To facilitate the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights, the customs 
authorities shall adopt a range of approaches to identify shipments containing counterfeit 
trademark goods, pirated copyright goods, pirated design goods, and counterfeit 
geographical indication goods. These approaches include risk analysis techniques based, 
inter alia, on information provided by right holders, intelligence gathered and cargo 
inspections. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 52 
 
ARTICLE 10.51 
 
Cooperation 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to cooperate with a view to eliminating international trade in 
goods that infringe intellectual property rights. For this purpose, they shall, in particular, 
exchange information and arrange for cooperation, to be mutually agreed between their 
customs authorities, with regard to trade in counterfeit trademark goods, pirated copyright 
goods, pirated design goods, or counterfeit geographical indication goods. 
 
2. 
For shipments of goods transiting or transhipped through the territory of a Party and 
destined for the territory of the other Party, which are suspected of being counterfeit or 
pirated, the Parties shall, upon their own initiative or upon the request of the other Party, 
provide available information to the other Party to enable effective enforcement against 
those shipments. The Parties may not provide information which is submitted confidentially 
by the shipper, shipping line or its agent. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 53 
 
SECTION E 
 
COOPERATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 10.52 
 
Cooperation 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to cooperate with a view to supporting the implementation of the 
commitments and obligations undertaken under this Chapter. Areas of cooperation include, 
but are not limited to, the following activities: 
 
(a) 
exchange of information on legal frameworks concerning intellectual property rights, 
including implementation of intellectual property legislation and systems, aimed at 
promoting the efficient registration of intellectual property rights; 
 
(b) 
exchange, between respective authorities responsible for the enforcement of 
intellectual property rights, of their experiences and best practices concerning 
enforcement of intellectual property rights; 
 
(c) 
exchange of information and cooperation on public outreach and appropriate 
initiatives to promote awareness of the benefits of intellectual property rights and 
systems; 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 10 - 54 
 
(d) 
capacity-building and technical cooperation in relation, but not limited, to: 
management, licensing, valuation and exploitation of intellectual property rights; 
technology and market intelligence; facilitation of industry collaborations, including on 
intellectual property rights that may be applied towards environmental conservation 
or enhancement, which may include establishing a platform or database; and public 
private partnerships to support culture and innovation; 
 
(e) 
exchange of information and cooperation on intellectual property issues, where 
appropriate and relevant to developments in environmentally friendly technology; 
and 
 
(f) 
any other areas of cooperation or activities as may be discussed and agreed between 
the Parties. 
 
2. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the Parties agree to designate a contact point for 
the purpose of maintaining dialogue including, where useful, convening meetings on 
intellectual property issues between their respective technical experts on matters covered 
by this Chapter. 
 
3. 
Cooperation under this Article shall be carried out subject to each Party's laws, rules, 
regulations, directives or policies. Cooperation shall also be on mutually agreed terms and 
conditions and be subject to the availability of resources of each Party. 
 
 
 
