CHAPTER TWO 
 
NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
COMMON PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.1 
 
Objective 
 
The Parties shall progressively and reciprocally liberalise trade in goods over a transitional 
period starting from the entry into force of this Agreement in accordance with this 
Agreement and in conformity with Article XXIV of GATT 1994. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.2 
 
Scope 
 
This Chapter applies to trade in goods between the Parties. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 1 
 ARTICLE 2.3 
 
National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in accordance 
with Article III of GATT 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions. To this end, 
the obligations contained in Article III of GATT 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary 
Provisions, are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.4 
 
Customs Duty 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, a customs duty includes any duty or charge of any kind 
imposed on or in connection with the importation or exportation of a good, including any 
form of surtax or surcharge imposed on or in connection with such importation or 
exportation. 
 
A customs duty does not include any: 
 
(a)  charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article 2.3 (National 
Treatment); 
 
(b)  duty imposed consistently with Chapter Three (Trade Remedies); 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 2 
 (c)  duties applied consistently with Article VI, Article XVI, Article XIX of GATT 1994, the 
Anti-Dumping Agreement, the SCM Agreement, Article 5 of the Agreement on 
Agriculture and the DSU; and 
 
(d)  fee or other charge imposed consistently with Article 2.10 (Fees and Formalities 
Connected with Importation and Exportation). 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.5 
 
Classification of Goods 
 
The classification of goods in trade between the Parties shall be governed by each Party's 
respective tariff nomenclature in conformity with the HS and its amendments. 
 
 
SECTION B 
 
REDUCTION OR ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.6 
 
Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties on Imports 
 
1.  Each Party shall reduce or eliminate its customs duties on imported goods 
originating in the other Party in accordance with the Schedules set out in Annex 2-A. For the 
purposes of this Chapter, "originating" means the origin of a good as determined in 
accordance with the rules of origin and the other requirements set out in Protocol 1. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 3 
 2.  The base rate of customs duties on imports, to which the successive reductions are 
to be applied under paragraph 1, shall be that specified in the Schedules in Annex 2-A. 
 
3.  If at any moment a Party reduces its applied most favoured nation (hereinafter 
referred to as "MFN") customs duty rates on imports after the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement, that duty rate shall apply if and for as long as it is lower than the customs 
duty rate on imports calculated in accordance with its Schedule in Annex 2-A. 
 
4.  Three years after the entry into force of this Agreement, at the request of either 
Party, the Parties shall consult to consider accelerating and broadening the scope of the 
reduction and elimination of customs duties on imports. A decision by the Parties in the 
Committee on Trade in Goods on such acceleration or broadening shall supersede any duty 
rate or staging category determined pursuant to their Schedules for that good. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.7 
 
Elimination of Customs Duties and Taxes on Exports 
 
Neither Party shall maintain or institute any customs duty or tax on, or in connection with 
the exportation or sale for export of, goods to the other Party, or any internal taxes on 
goods exported to the other Party that are in excess of those imposed on like goods 
destined for internal sale. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 4 
 ARTICLE 2.8 
 
Standstill 
 
Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, neither Party shall increase any existing 
customs duty, or introduce any new customs duty, on the importation of a good originating 
in the other Party. This shall not preclude either Party from raising a customs duty to the 
level established in its Schedule in Annex 2-A following a unilateral reduction. 
 
 
SECTION C 
 
NON-TARIFF MEASURES 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.9 
 
Import and Export Restrictions 
 
1.  Neither Party shall adopt or maintain any prohibition or restriction on the 
importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation or sale for export of any 
good destined for the territory of the other Party, in accordance with Article XI of GATT 
1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions. To that end, Article XI of GATT 
1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions are incorporated into and made 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 5 
 2.  The Parties understand that, before taking any measures provided for in 
subparagraphs 2(a) and 2(c) of Article XI of GATT 1994, the Party intending to take the 
measures shall supply the other Party with all relevant information, with a view to seeking a 
solution acceptable to the Parties. The Parties may agree on any means needed to put an 
end to the difficulties. If no agreement is reached within 30 days of supplying such 
information, the exporting Party may apply measures under this Article on the exportation 
of the good concerned. Where exceptional and critical circumstances requiring immediate 
action make prior information or examination impossible, the Party intending to take the 
measures may apply forthwith the precautionary measures necessary to deal with the 
situation, and shall inform the other Party immediately thereof. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.10 
 
Fees and Formalities Connected with Importation and Exportation 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with Article VIII of GATT 1994, including its 
Notes and Supplementary Provisions, that all fees and charges of whatever character (other 
than customs duties, and measures listed in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Article 2.4 
(Customs Duty)) imposed on, or in connection with the importation or exportation of, goods 
are limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered, which shall not be 
calculated on an ad valorem basis, and shall not represent an indirect protection to 
domestic goods or a taxation of imports or exports for fiscal purposes. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 6 
 2.  Each Party shall make available, via an officially designated medium, including 
through the internet, the fees and charges it imposes in connection with importation and 
exportation. 
 
3.  No Party shall require consular transactions1, including the payment of related fees 
and charges, in connection with the importation of any good of the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.11 
 
Import and Export Licensing Procedures 
 
1.  The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations under the Import Licensing 
Agreement. 
 
2.  The Parties shall introduce and administer any import or export licensing 
procedures2 in accordance with: 
 
(a)  Paragraphs 1 to 9 of Article 1 of the Import Licensing Agreement; 
 
                                                           
1  "Consular transactions" means the procedure of obtaining from a consul of the importing Party in the 
territory of the exporting Party, or in the territory of a third party, a consular invoice or a consular visa for a 
commercial invoice, certificate of origin, manifest, shippers' export declaration or any other customs 
documentation in connection with the importation of the good. 
2  For the purposes of this Article, "non-automatic licensing procedures" means licensing procedures 
where approval of the application is not granted for all legal and natural persons who fulfil the requirements of 
the Party concerned for engaging in import or export operations involving the goods subject to licensing 
procedures. 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 7 
 (b)  Article 2 of the Import Licensing Agreement; 
 
(c)  Article 3 of the Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
To that end, the provisions referred to in subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph are 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement. The Parties shall apply those provisions, 
mutatis mutandis, to any export licensing procedures. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure that all export licensing procedures are neutral in application 
and are administered in a fair, equitable, non-discriminatory and transparent manner. 
 
4.  Each Party shall only adopt or maintain licensing procedures as a condition for the 
importation into its territory or the exportation from its territory to the other Party where 
other appropriate procedures to achieve an administrative purpose are not reasonably 
available. 
 
5.  Neither Party shall adopt or maintain non-automatic import or export licensing 
procedures unless necessary to implement a measure that is consistent with this 
Agreement. A Party adopting non-automatic licensing procedures shall clearly indicate the 
measure being implemented through such licensing procedure. 
 
6.  A Party introducing export licensing procedures or changes in these procedures shall 
notify the Committee on Trade in Goods 60 days in advance of the publication of those 
procedures. This notification shall contain the information required under Article 5 of the 
Import Licensing Agreement. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 8 
 7.  A Party shall respond within 60 days to enquiries from the other Party regarding any 
licensing procedures which the Party to which the request is addressed intends to adopt or 
has adopted or maintained, as well as the criteria for granting or allocating import or export 
licences. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.12 
 
State Trading Enterprises 
 
1.  The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations under Article XVII of GATT 
1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions, and the Understanding on the 
Interpretation of Article XVII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, contained 
in Annex 1-A to the WTO Agreement, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of 
this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  Each Party may request information from the other Party as provided for in 
subparagraphs 4(c) and 4(d) of Article XVII of GATT 1994. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 9 
 ARTICLE 2.13 
 
Elimination of Sectoral Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  The Parties shall undertake further commitments on sector-specific non-tariff 
measures on goods as set out in Annex 2-B and Annex 2-C (hereinafter referred to as 
"Sectoral Annexes"). To that end, the Parties may, by decision in the Committee on Trade in 
Goods, amend the Sectoral Annexes. 
 
2.  At the request of a Party, the Parties shall enter into negotiations with the aim of 
broadening the scope of their commitments on sector-specific non-tariff measures on 
goods. 
 
 
SECTION D 
 
SPECIFIC EXCEPTIONS RELATED TO GOODS 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.14 
 
General Exceptions 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the taking of measures in accordance with 
Article XX of GATT 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions, which are 
hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 10 
 2.  The Parties understand that, before taking any measures provided for in paragraphs 
(i) and (j) of Article XX of GATT 1994, the exporting Party intending to take the measures 
shall provide the other Party with all relevant information, with a view to seeking a solution 
acceptable to the Parties. The Parties may agree on any means needed to put an end to the 
difficulties. If no agreement is reached within 30 days, the exporting Party may apply 
measures under this Article on the exportation of the good concerned. Where exceptional 
and critical circumstances requiring immediate action make prior information or 
examination impossible, the Party intending to take the measures may apply forthwith the 
precautionary measures necessary to deal with the situation and shall inform the other 
Party immediately thereof. 
 
 
SECTION E 
 
INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 2.15 
 
Committee on Trade in Goods 
 
 
1.  The Committee on Trade in Goods established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised 
Committees) shall meet at the request of a Party or the Trade Committee to consider any 
matter arising under this Chapter and comprise representatives of the Parties. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 11 
 2.  The Committee's functions shall include: 
 
(a)  monitoring the implementation of this Chapter and Annexes 2-A, 2-B and 2-C; 
 
(b)  promoting trade in goods between the Parties, including through consultations on 
accelerating and broadening the scope of tariff elimination and broadening of the 
scope of commitments on non-tariff measures under this Agreement, and on other 
issues as appropriate; as a result of these consultations, the Committee may, by 
decision, amend or expand the Annexes 2-A, 2-B and 2-C as required; and 
 
(c)  addressing tariff and non-tariff measures to trade in goods between the Parties, and, if 
appropriate, referring such matters to the Trade Committee for its consideration. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 2 - 12 
 