 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 1 
 
CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
 
TRANSPARENCY 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.1 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
"measure of general application" means laws, regulations, judicial decisions, 
procedures and administrative rulings that may have an impact on any matter covered 
by this Agreement but does not include a ruling that applies to a particular person; 
and 
 
 (b) "interested person" means any natural or legal person that may be subject to any 
rights or obligations under measures of general application. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 2 
 
ARTICLE 13.2 
 
Objectives and Scope 
 
1. 
Recognising the impact which their respective regulatory environments may have on 
trade and investment between them, the Parties shall pursue a transparent and predictable 
regulatory environment for economic operators, including small and medium-sized 
enterprises, that do business in their territories. 
 
2. 
The Parties, affirming their respective commitments under the WTO Agreement, 
hereby lay down clarifications and improved arrangements for transparency, consultation, 
and the better administration of measures of general application. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 3 
 
ARTICLE 13.3 
 
Publication regarding Measures of General Application 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that in respect of measures of general application: 
 
(a) 
such measures are readily available to interested persons, in a non-discriminatory 
manner, via an officially designated medium and, where feasible and possible, via 
electronic means, in such a manner as to enable interested persons and the other 
Party to become acquainted with them; 
 
(b) 
an explanation of the objective of, and rationale for, such measures shall be provided 
to the extent possible; and 
 
(c) 
there shall be sufficient time between the publication and entry into force of such 
measures, except where not possible for reasons of urgency. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall: 
 
(a) 
endeavour to publish in advance any proposal to adopt or to amend any measure of 
general application, including an explanation of the objective of and rationale for the 
proposal; 
 
(b) 
provide reasonable opportunities for interested persons to comment on such 
proposed measures, allowing, in particular, for sufficient time for such opportunities; 
and 
 
(c) 
endeavour to take into account the comments received from interested persons with 
respect to such proposed measures. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 4 
 
ARTICLE 13.4 
 
Enquiries and Contact Points 
 
1. 
In order to facilitate the effective implementation of this Agreement, and to 
facilitate communication between the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement, 
each Party shall designate a contact point upon the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
Upon the request of a Party, the contact point of the other Party shall indicate the 
office or the official responsible for any particular matter that pertains to the 
implementation of this Agreement and assist, as necessary, in facilitating communication 
with the requesting Party. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall establish or maintain appropriate mechanisms for responding to 
enquiries from any interested person of the other Party regarding any measures of general 
application which are proposed or in force, and their application. Enquiries may be 
addressed through the contact points established under paragraph 1 or any other 
mechanism, as appropriate. 
 
4. 
The Parties recognise that any response provided for in paragraph 3 may not be 
definitive or legally binding but for information purposes only, unless otherwise provided for 
in their laws and regulations. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 5 
 
5. 
Requests or information under this Article shall be conveyed to the other Party 
through the relevant contact points provided for in paragraph 1. 
 
6. 
Upon the request of a Party, the other Party shall promptly provide information and 
respond to questions pertaining to any actual or proposed measure of general application 
that the requesting Party considers might affect the operation of this Agreement, regardless 
of whether the requesting Party has previously been notified of that measure. 
 
7. 
Each Party shall establish or maintain appropriate mechanism with the task of 
seeking to effectively resolve problems for interested persons of the other Party that may 
arise from the application of any measure of general application. Such processes should be 
easily accessible, time-bound, result-oriented and transparent. They shall be without 
prejudice to any appeal or review procedures which the Parties establish or maintain. They 
shall also be without prejudice to the Parties' rights and obligations under Chapter Fourteen 
(Dispute Settlement) and Chapter Fifteen (Mediation Mechanism). 
 
8. 
Any information provided under this Article shall be without prejudice as to whether 
the measure is consistent with this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 6 
 
ARTICLE 13.5 
 
Administrative Proceedings 
 
With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial and reasonable manner all measures 
of general application, each Party, in applying such measures to particular persons, goods or 
services of the other Party in specific cases, shall: 
 
(a) 
when proceedings are initiated, endeavour to provide reasonable notice in accordance 
with its procedures to interested persons of the other Party who are directly affected 
by such proceedings, including a description of the nature of the proceedings, a 
statement of the legal authority under which the proceedings are initiated, and a 
general description of any issues in controversy; 
 
(b) 
afford such interested persons a reasonable opportunity to present facts and 
arguments in support of their positions prior to any final administrative action, insofar 
as permitted by time, the nature of the proceedings and the public interest; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that its procedures are based on and in accordance with its law. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 7 
 
ARTICLE 13.6 
 
Review of Administrative Actions 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, subject to its domestic law, establish or maintain judicial, 
quasi-judicial or administrative tribunals or procedures for the purposes of the prompt 
review and, where warranted, the correction of administrative actions1 relating to matters 
covered by this Agreement. Such tribunals shall be impartial and shall be independent of the 
office or authority entrusted with administrative enforcement, and shall not have any 
substantial interest in the outcome of the matter. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or procedures, the parties to the 
proceedings have the right to: 
 
(a) 
a reasonable opportunity to support or defend their respective positions; and 
 
(b) 
a decision that was based on the evidence and submissions of record or, where 
required by law of the Party, based on the record compiled by the administrative 
authority. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further review as provided for under the 
law of that Party, that the decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be implemented by, and 
shall govern the practice of, the office or authority with respect to the administrative action 
at issue. 
 
 
                                                           
1 
For greater certainty, the review of administrative actions can take the form of common law judicial 
review, and the correction of administrative actions may include a referral back to the body that took such 
action for corrective action. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 13 - 8 
 
ARTICLE 13.7 
 
Regulatory Quality and Performance  
and Good Administrative Behaviour 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to cooperate in promoting regulatory quality and performance in 
their respective regulatory policies through the exchange of information and best practices. 
 
2. 
The Parties subscribe to the principles of good administrative behaviour, and agree 
to cooperate in promoting it in their respective administrations through the exchange of 
information and best practices. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13.8 
 
Specific Rules 
 
Specific rules in other Chapters of this Agreement regarding the subject matter of this 
Chapter shall prevail to the extent that they differ from the provisions of this Chapter. 
 
 
 
