 
CHAPTER TWELVE 
 
TRADE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.1 
 
Context and Objectives 
 
1.  The Parties recall the Agenda 21 of the United Nations Conference on Environment 
and Development of 1992, the Preamble to the WTO Agreement, the Singapore Ministerial 
Declaration of the WTO of 1996, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation on Sustainable 
Development of 2002, the Ministerial Declaration of the UN Economic and Social Council on 
Generating Full and Productive Employment and Decent Work for All of 2006, and the 
International Labour Organization (hereinafter referred to as "ILO") Declaration on Social 
Justice for a Fair Globalization of 2008. In view of these instruments, the Parties reaffirm 
their commitment to developing and promoting international trade and their bilateral trade 
and economic relationship in such a way as to contribute to sustainable development. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 1 
  
2.  The Parties recognise that economic development, social development and 
environmental protection are interdependent and mutually reinforcing components of 
sustainable development. They underline the benefit of cooperation on trade-related social 
and environmental issues as part of a global approach to trade and sustainable 
development. 
 
3.  The Parties recognise that it is inappropriate to encourage trade or investment by 
weakening or reducing the protections afforded by their domestic labour and environment 
law. At the same time, the Parties stress that environmental and labour standards should 
not be used for protectionist trade purposes. 
 
4.  The Parties recognise that it is their aim to strengthen their trade relations and 
cooperation in ways that promote sustainable development in the context of paragraphs 1 
and 2. In light of the specific circumstances of each Party, it is not their intention to 
harmonise the labour or environment standards of the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.2 
 
Right to Regulate and Levels of Protection 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the right of each Party to establish its own levels of 
environmental and labour protection, and to adopt or modify its relevant laws and policies 
accordingly, consistent with the principles of the internationally recognised standards or 
agreements to which it is party, referred to in Articles 12.3 (Multilateral Labour Standards 
and Agreements) and 12.6 (Multilateral Environmental Standards and Agreements). 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 2 
  
2.  The Parties shall continue to improve those laws and policies, and shall strive 
towards providing and encouraging high levels of environmental and labour protection. 
 
 
SECTION B 
 
TRADE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT –  
LABOUR ASPECTS1 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.3 
 
Multilateral Labour Standards and Agreements 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the value of international cooperation and agreements on 
employment and labour affairs as a response of the international community to economic, 
employment and social challenges and opportunities resulting from globalisation. They 
commit to consulting and cooperating as appropriate on trade-related labour and 
employment issues of mutual interest. 
 
                                                           
1  When "labour" is referred to in this Chapter, it includes the issues relevant to the Decent Work 
Agenda as agreed on in the ILO and in the Ministerial Declaration of the UN Economic and Social Council on 
Generating Full and Productive Employment and Decent Work for All of 2006. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 3 
  
2.  The Parties affirm their commitments, under the Ministerial Declaration of the UN 
Economic and Social Council on Generating Full and Productive Employment and Decent 
Work for All of 2006, to recognising full and productive employment and decent work for all 
as a key element of sustainable development for all countries and as a priority objective of 
international cooperation. The Parties resolve to promote the development of international 
trade in a way that is conducive to full and productive employment and decent work for all. 
 
3.  In accordance with the obligations assumed under the ILO and the ILO Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its Follow-up adopted by the 
International Labour Conference at its 86th Session in Geneva, June 1998, the Parties 
commit to respecting, promoting and effectively implementing the principles concerning the 
fundamental rights at work, namely: 
 
(a)  the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining; 
 
(b)  the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; 
 
(c)  the effective abolition of child labour; and 
 
(d)  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 
 
The Parties affirm the commitment to effectively implementing the ILO Conventions that 
Singapore and the Member States of the Union have ratified respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 4 
  
4.  The Parties will make continued and sustained efforts towards ratifying and 
effectively implementing the fundamental ILO conventions, and they will exchange 
information in this regard. The Parties will also consider the ratification and effective 
implementation of other ILO conventions, taking into account domestic circumstances. The 
Parties will exchange information in this regard. 
 
5.  The Parties recognise that the violation of fundamental principles and rights at work 
cannot be invoked or otherwise used as a legitimate comparative advantage. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.4 
 
Labour Cooperation  
in the Context of Trade and Sustainable Development 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of working together on trade-related aspects of labour 
policies in order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement. The Parties may initiate 
cooperative activities of mutual benefit in areas including, but not limited to: 
 
(a)  cooperation in international fora addressing labour aspects of trade and sustainable 
development, including, but not limited to, the ILO and Asia-Europe Meeting; 
 
(b)  the exchange of information and the sharing of best practices in areas such as labour 
law and practices, compliance and enforcement systems, labour dispute management, 
labour consultation, labour-management cooperation and occupational safety and 
health; 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 5 
  
(c)  the exchange of views on the positive and negative impacts of this Agreement on 
labour aspects of sustainable development and on ways to enhance, prevent or 
mitigate those impacts, taking into account sustainability impact assessments carried 
out by either or both Parties; 
 
(d)  the exchange of views on the promotion of the ratification of fundamental ILO 
Conventions and other conventions of mutual interest, as well as on the effective 
implementation of ratified conventions; 
 
(e)  cooperation on trade-related aspects of the ILO Decent Work Agenda, including on the 
interlinkages between trade and full and productive employment, labour market 
adjustment, core labour standards, labour statistics, human resources development 
and lifelong learning, social protection and social inclusion, social dialogue and gender 
equality; and 
 
(f)  the exchange of views on the trade impact of labour regulations, norms and 
standards. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.5 
 
Scientific Information 
 
Each Party, when preparing and implementing measures aimed at health and safety at work 
which may affect trade or investment between the Parties, shall take account of relevant 
scientific and technical information and related international standards, guidelines or 
recommendations, if available, including the precautionary principle as enshrined in such 
international standards, guidelines or recommendations. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 6 
  
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 7 
  
SECTION C 
 
TRADE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT –  
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.6 
 
Multilateral Environmental Standards and Agreements 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the value of international environmental governance and 
agreements as a response of the international community to global or regional 
environmental problems, and they stress the need to enhance the mutual supportiveness 
between trade and environment policies, rules and measures. In this context, they will 
consult and cooperate as appropriate with respect to negotiations on trade-related 
environmental issues of mutual interest. 
 
2.  The Parties shall effectively implement, in their respective laws, regulations or other 
measures and practices in their territories, the multilateral environmental agreements to 
which they are party.2 
 
                                                           
2  The multilateral environmental agreements referred to shall encompass those protocols, 
amendments, annexes and adjustments binding on the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 8 
  
3.  The Parties affirm their commitment to reaching the ultimate objective of the UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (hereinafter referred to as "UNFCCC"), and to 
effectively implementing the UNFCCC, its Kyoto Protocol, and the Paris Agreement of 12 
December 2015 in a manner consistent with the principles and provisions of the UNFCCC. 
They commit to work together to strengthen the multilateral, rules-based regime under the 
UNFCCC building on the UNFCCC's agreed decisions, and to support efforts to develop a 
post-2020 international climate change agreement under the UNFCCC applicable to all 
parties. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining 
measures to implement the multilateral environmental agreements to which they are party, 
provided that such measures are not applied in a manner that would constitute a means of 
arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between the Parties or a disguised restriction on 
trade. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.7 
 
Trade in Timber and Timber Products 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of the global conservation and sustainable 
management of forests. To that end, the Parties undertake to: 
 
(a)  exchange information on approaches to promote the trade in, and the consumption 
of, timber and timber products from legally and sustainably managed forests, and to 
promote the awareness of such approaches; 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 9 
  
(b)  promote global forest law enforcement and governance and to address trade in 
illegally harvested timber and timber products through, for example, promoting the 
use of timber and timber products from legally and sustainably managed forests, 
including through verification and certification schemes; 
 
(c)  cooperate to promote the effectiveness of measures or policies aimed at addressing 
the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products; and 
 
(d)  promote the effective use of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered 
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) with regard to timber species whose 
conservation status is considered at risk. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.8 
 
Trade in Fish Products 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of ensuring the conservation and management of fish 
stocks in a sustainable manner. To that end, the Parties undertake to: 
 
(a)  comply with long-term conservation measures and sustainable exploitation of fish 
stocks as defined in the international instruments ratified by the respective Parties 
and to uphold the principles of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN 
(hereinafter referred to as "FAO") and relevant UN instruments relating to these 
issues; 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 10 
  
(b)  introduce and implement effective measures to combat illegal, unreported and 
unregulated (hereinafter referred to as "IUU") fishing, including by cooperating with 
Regional Fisheries Managements Organisations and implementing their Catch 
Documentation or Certification Schemes for the export of fish and fish products, when 
required, and the Parties shall also facilitate the elimination of IUU products from 
trade flows and the exchange of information on IUU activities; 
 
(c)  adopt effective monitoring and control measures to ensure compliance with 
conservation measures, such as appropriate Port State Measures; and 
 
(d)  uphold the principles of the FAO Agreement to Promote Compliance with 
International Conservation and Management Measures by Fishing Vessels on the High 
Seas and respect the relevant provisions of the FAO Agreement on Port State 
Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate IUU Fishing. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.9 
 
Scientific Information 
 
Each Party, when preparing and implementing measures aimed at environmental protection 
which may affect trade or investment between the Parties, shall take account of scientific 
evidence and relevant international standards, guidelines or recommendations, where 
available, and of the precautionary principle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 11 
  
ARTICLE 12.10 
 
Cooperation on Environmental Aspects  
in the Context of Trade and Sustainable Development 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of working together on trade-related aspects of 
environmental policies in order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement. The Parties may 
initiate cooperative activities of mutual benefit in areas including, but not limited to: 
 
(a)  the exchange of views on the positive and negative impacts of this Agreement on 
environmental aspects of sustainable development and ways to enhance, prevent or 
mitigate those impacts, taking into account sustainability impact assessments carried 
out by either or both Parties; 
 
(b)  cooperation in international fora addressing environmental aspects of trade and 
sustainable development, including in particular in the WTO, under the United Nations 
Environment Programme and under multilateral environmental agreements; 
 
(c)  cooperation with a view to promoting the ratification and effective implementation of 
multilateral environmental agreements with relevance to trade; 
 
(d)  the exchange of information and cooperation on private and public certification and 
labelling schemes, including eco-labelling, and on green public procurement; 
 
(e)  the exchange of views on the trade impact of environmental regulations, norms and 
standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 12 
  
(f)  cooperation on trade-related aspects of the current and future international climate 
change regime, including ways to address adverse effects of trade on climate, as well 
as means to promote low-carbon technologies and energy efficiency; 
 
(g)  cooperation on trade related aspects of multilateral environmental agreements, 
including customs cooperation; 
 
(h)  cooperation on sustainable forest management to encourage effective measures for 
certification of sustainably produced timber; 
 
(i)  the exchange of views on the relationship between multilateral environmental 
agreements and international trade rules; 
 
(j)  the exchange of views on the liberalisation of environmental goods and services; and 
 
(k)  the exchange of views regarding conservation and management of the living marine 
resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 13 
  
SECTION D 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.11 
 
Trade and Investment Promoting Sustainable Development 
 
1.  The Parties resolve to make continuing special efforts to facilitate and promote trade 
and investment in environmental goods and services, including through addressing related 
non-tariff barriers. The Parties also recognise the usefulness of efforts to promote trade in 
goods that are the subject of voluntary or private sustainable development assurance 
schemes, such as eco-labelling, or fair and ethical trade. 
 
2.  The Parties shall pay special attention to facilitating the removal of obstacles to 
trade or investment concerning climate-friendly goods and services, such as sustainable 
renewable energy goods and related services and energy efficient products and services, 
including through the adoption of policy frameworks conducive to the deployment of best 
available technologies and through the promotion of standards that respond to 
environmental and economic needs and minimise technical obstacles to trade. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 14 
  
3.  The Parties recognise the need to ensure that, when developing public support 
systems for fossils fuels, proper account is taken of the need to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and of the need to limit distortions of trade as much as possible. While 
subparagraph 2(b) of Article 11.7 (Prohibited Subsidies) does not apply to subsidies to the 
coal industry, the Parties share the goal of progressively reducing subsidies for fossil fuels. 
Such reductions may be accompanied by measures to alleviate the social consequences 
associated with the transition to low carbon fuels. In addition, both Parties will actively 
promote the development of a sustainable and safe low-carbon economy, such as through 
investment in renewable energies and energy efficient solutions. 
 
4.  When promoting trade and investment, the Parties should make special efforts to 
promote corporate social responsibility practices which are adopted on a voluntary basis. In 
this regard, each Party shall refer to relevant internationally accepted principles, standards 
or guidelines to which it has agreed or acceded, such as the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Global 
Compact, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational 
Enterprises and Social Policy. The Parties commit to exchanging information and 
cooperating on promoting corporate social responsibility. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.12 
 
Upholding Levels of Protection 
 
1.  A Party shall not waive or otherwise derogate from, or offer to waive or otherwise 
derogate from, its environmental and labour laws, in a manner affecting trade or 
investment between the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 15 
  
2.  A Party shall not fail to effectively enforce its environmental and labour laws, 
through a sustained or recurring course of action or inaction, where such failure to 
effectively enforce would affect trade or investment between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.13 
 
Transparency 
 
Each Party shall ensure that where any measure of general application aimed at protecting 
the environment or labour conditions may affect trade and investment between the Parties, 
such measure is developed, introduced and administered in a transparent manner and with 
due notice and opportunities for interested persons to submit their views, in accordance 
with that Party's domestic law and with Chapter Thirteen (Transparency). 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.14 
 
Review of Impact on Sustainable Development 
 
1.  The Parties undertake to jointly or independently monitor, assess and review the 
impact of the implementation of this Agreement on sustainable development through their 
relevant participative processes and institutions, in accordance with their existing practices. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 16 
  
2.  The Parties will exchange views on methodologies and indicators for trade 
sustainability impact assessments. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.15 
 
Institutional Set up and Monitoring Mechanism 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate an office within its administration that shall serve as 
contact point with the other Party for the purpose of implementing this Chapter. 
 
2.  The Parties shall establish a Board on Trade and Sustainable Development 
(hereinafter referred to as the "Board"). The Board shall comprise senior officials from 
within the administration of each Party. 
 
3.  The Board shall meet within the first two years after the date this Agreement enters 
into force and thereafter as necessary, to oversee the implementation of this Chapter. 
 
4.  Each meeting of the Board shall include a public session with stakeholders to 
exchange views on issues related to the implementation of this Chapter. The Parties shall 
promote a balanced representation of relevant interests, including independent 
representative organisations of employers, workers, environmental interests and business 
groups, as well as other relevant stakeholders as appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 17 
  
5.  Each Party shall establish new consultative mechanisms or make use of existing 
consultative mechanisms to seek advice from relevant domestic stakeholders on the 
implementation of this Chapter, such as domestic advisory groups. Such mechanisms shall 
include balanced representation of independent economic, social and environmental 
stakeholders. These stakeholders include employers' and workers' organisations, and non-
governmental organisations. These stakeholders may, on their own initiative, submit views 
or recommendations to their respective Parties on the implementation of this Chapter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.16 
 
Government Consultations 
 
1.  In case of disagreement on any matter arising under this Chapter, the Parties shall 
only have recourse to the procedures provided for in Article 12.16 (Government 
Consultations) and Article 12.17 (Panel of Experts). Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement) 
and Chapter Fifteen (Mediation Mechanism) do not apply to this Chapter. 
 
2.  In case of any disagreement referred to in paragraph 1, a Party may request 
consultations with the other Party by delivering a written request to the contact point of the 
other Party. Consultations shall commence promptly after a Party has delivered a request 
for consultations. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 18 
  
3.  The Parties shall make every attempt to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution 
of the matter. The Parties shall take into account the activities of the ILO or relevant 
multilateral environmental organisations or bodies so as to promote greater cooperation 
and coherence between the work of the Parties and these organisations. Where relevant, 
the Parties, subject to mutual agreement, may seek the views of these organisations or 
bodies, or of any person or body the Parties deem appropriate, in order to fully examine the 
matter. 
 
4.  If a Party considers that the matter needs further discussion that Party may request 
that the Board be convened to consider the matter by delivering a written request to the 
contact point of the other Party. The Board shall convene promptly and endeavour to agree 
on a resolution of the matter. 
 
5.  Where appropriate, the Board may consult relevant stakeholders. 
 
6.  Any resolution reached by the Board on the matter shall be made public unless it 
otherwise decides. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12.17 
 
Panel of Experts 
 
1.  For any matter that has not been satisfactorily addressed by the Board within 120 
days from the delivery of a request for the Board to convene to consider that matter 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 12.16 (Government Consultations), or within a longer 
period as agreed by both Parties, a Party may request, by delivering a written request to the 
contact point of the other Party, that a Panel of Experts be established to examine that 
matter. 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 19 
  
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 20 
  
2.  At its first meeting after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Board shall 
establish the rules of procedure of the Panel of Experts, taking reference from the relevant 
Rules of Procedure in Annex 14-A. The principles in Annex 14-B shall apply to this Article. 
 
3.  At its first meeting after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Board shall 
establish a list of at least twelve individuals who are willing and able to serve on the Panel of 
Experts. This list shall be composed of three sub-lists: one sub-list for each Party and one 
sub-list of individuals who are not nationals of either Party and who shall act as 
Chairpersons of the Panel of Experts. Each Party shall propose at least four individuals to 
serve as experts on its own sub-list. Each Party shall also propose at least two individuals to 
serve on the sub-list of Chairpersons with the agreement of both Parties. At its meetings, 
the Board will review the list and ensure that it is maintained at least at the level of twelve 
individuals. 
 
4.  The list referred to in paragraph 3 shall comprise individuals with specialised 
knowledge or expertise regarding the issues addressed in this Chapter, regarding labour or 
environmental law, or regarding the resolution of disputes arising under international 
agreements. Those individuals shall be independent, shall serve in their individual 
capacities, and shall neither take instructions from any organisation or government with 
regard to issues related to the matter at stake nor be affiliated with the government of 
Singapore, the government of any Member State of the Union, or the Union. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 21 
  
5.  A Panel of Experts shall be composed of three members, unless the Parties agree 
otherwise. Within 30 days of the date of receipt by the responding Party of the request for 
the establishment of a Panel of Experts, the Parties shall consult each other in order to 
reach an agreement on its composition. In the event that the Parties are unable to agree on 
the composition of the Panel of Experts within this time-frame, they shall select the 
chairperson from the relevant sub-list referred to in paragraph 3 by mutual agreement or, in 
case they cannot agree within another seven days, by lot. Each Party shall select one expert 
who satisfies the requirements of paragraph 4 within 44 days of the date of receipt by the 
responding Party of the request for the establishment of a Panel of Experts. The Parties may 
agree on the selection of any other expert who satisfies the requirements of paragraph 4 to 
sit on the Panel of Experts. In the event that the composition of the Panel of Experts has not 
been completed within 44 days from the date of receipt by the responding Party of the 
request for the establishment of a Panel of Experts, the remaining expert(s) shall be 
selected within seven days by lot from among the individuals on the sub-list(s) referred to in 
paragraph 3 that was proposed by the Party or Parties that had not completed the 
procedure. In the event that such list has not yet been established, the experts shall be 
selected by lot from the individuals who have been formally proposed by one or both of the 
Parties. The date of establishment of the Panel of Experts shall be the date on which the last 
of the three experts is selected. 
 
6.  Unless the Parties agree otherwise within seven days from the date of establishment 
of the Panel of Experts, the terms of reference of the Panel of Experts shall be: 
 
"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the Trade and Sustainable 
Development Chapter, the matter referred to in the request for the establishment of the 
Panel of Experts, and to issue a report, in accordance with paragraph 8 of Article 12.17 
(Panel of Experts), making recommendations for the solution of the matter". 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 22 
  
7.  The Panel of Experts may obtain information from any source it deems appropriate. 
In matters related to the respect of multilateral agreements as set out in Articles 12.3 
(Multilateral Labour Standards and Agreements) and 12.6 (Multilateral Environmental 
Standards and Agreements), the Panel of Experts should seek information and advice from 
the ILO or Multilateral Environmental Agreement bodies. Any information obtained under 
this paragraph shall be disclosed to both Parties and submitted to them for their comments. 
 
8.  The Panel of Experts shall issue an interim and a final report to the Parties. These 
reports shall set out the findings of facts, the applicability of the relevant provisions, and the 
basic rationale behind any findings and recommendations. The Panel of Experts shall issue 
the interim report to the Parties not later than 90 days from its date of establishment. Any 
Party may submit written comments on the interim report to the Panel of Experts. After 
considering any such written comments, the Panel of Experts may modify the report and 
make any further examination it considers appropriate. The Panel of Experts shall issue the 
final report to the Parties no later than 150 days from its date of establishment. Where it 
considers that the deadlines set in this paragraph cannot be met, the chairperson of the 
Panel of Experts shall notify the Parties in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the 
date on which the Panel of Experts plans to issue its interim or final report. The Panel of 
Experts shall issue the final report no later than 180 days after the date of its establishment, 
unless the Parties agree otherwise. This final report shall be made publicly available unless 
the Parties decide otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 23 
  
9.  The Parties shall discuss the appropriate measures to be implemented, taking into 
account the report and recommendations of the Panel of Experts. The Party concerned shall 
inform its stakeholders, through the consultative mechanisms referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Article 12.15 (Institutional Set Up and Monitoring Mechanism), and the other Party, of its 
decisions on any actions or measures to be implemented, no later than three months after 
the report has been submitted to the Parties. The follow-up to the report and the 
recommendations of the Panel of Experts shall be monitored by the Board. Stakeholders 
may submit observations to the Board in this regard. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 12 - 24 
 