CHAPTER ELEVEN 
 
COMPETITION AND RELATED MATTERS 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
ANTI-COMPETITIVE CONDUCT AND MERGERS 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.1 
 
Principles 
 
1.  The Parties recognise the importance of free and undistorted competition in their 
trade relations. They acknowledge that anti-competitive business conduct and anti-
competitive transactions have the potential to distort the proper functioning of their 
markets and undermine the benefits of trade liberalisation. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 1 
 2.  To promote free and undistorted competition in all sectors of their economy, each 
Party shall maintain in its respective territory comprehensive legislation which effectively 
addresses the following practices, where such practices affect trade between the Parties: 
 
(a)  horizontal and vertical agreements1 between undertakings, decisions by associations 
of undertakings, and concerted practices, which have as their object or effect the 
prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in the territory of either Party as a 
whole or in a substantial part thereof; 
 
(b)  abuses by one or more undertakings of a dominant position in the territory of either 
Party as a whole or in a substantial part thereof; and 
 
(c)  concentrations between undertakings which result in a substantial lessening of 
competition or which significantly impede effective competition, in particular as a 
result of the creation or strengthening of a dominant position in the territory of either 
Party as a whole or in a substantial part thereof. 
 
 
                                                 
1  Where the competent authority in Singapore assesses that according to the prohibition laid down in 
section 34 of the Competition Act (Chapter 50B), the anti-competitive effects of a vertical agreement 
will likely outweigh its pro-competitive effects, the competent authority will refer the matter to the 
Minister. The Minister shall decide on the applicability of section 34 of the Competition Act to the 
vertical agreement in question. This is without prejudice to the possibility of the competent authority in 
Singapore applying section 47 of the Competition Act, which is applicable to vertical agreements 
concluded by a dominant firm. 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 2 
 ARTICLE 11.2 
 
Implementation 
 
1.  Each Party shall maintain its autonomy in developing and enforcing its law. The 
Parties undertake, however, to maintain authorities that are responsible for, and 
appropriately equipped to effectively enforce the legislation referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Article 11.1 (Principles). 
 
2.  The Parties will apply their respective legislation referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Article 11.1 (Principles) in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner, respecting the 
principles of procedural fairness and the rights of defence of the parties concerned, 
including the right of the parties concerned to be heard prior to the taking of a decision in a 
case. 
 
 
SECTION B 
 
PUBLIC UNDERTAKINGS, UNDERTAKINGS ENTRUSTED  
WITH SPECIAL OR EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS AND STATE MONOPOLIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.3 
 
Public Undertakings and Undertakings Entrusted with Special or Exclusive Rights 
 
1.  Nothing in this Chapter prevents a Party from establishing or maintaining public 
undertakings, or entrusting undertakings with special or exclusive rights according to its 
respective law. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 3 
 2.  Each Party shall ensure that public undertakings and undertakings that are entrusted 
with special or exclusive rights are subject to the legislation referred to in 
Section A (Anti-Competitive Conduct and Mergers), insofar as the application of such rules 
does not obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular tasks assigned to 
them. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure that undertakings entrusted with special or exclusive rights 
do not use those special or exclusive rights to engage either directly or indirectly, including 
through their dealings with their parents, subsidiaries, or other undertakings with common 
ownership, in anti-competitive practices in another market in respect of which such 
undertakings have no special or exclusive rights, that adversely affect investments, trade in 
goods or services of the other Party. 
 
4.  Singapore shall ensure that any public undertaking and any undertaking entrusted 
with special or exclusive rights acts solely in accordance with commercial considerations in 
its purchase or sale of goods or services, such as with regard to price, quality, availability, 
marketability, transportation, and other terms and conditions of purchase or sale, and 
provides non-discriminatory treatment to establishments of the Union, to goods of the 
Union, and to service suppliers of the Union. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 4 
 ARTICLE 11.4 
 
State Monopolies 
 
While nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party from designating or 
maintaining state monopolies, each Party shall adjust state monopolies of a commercial 
character to ensure no discrimination is exercised by such monopolies regarding the 
conditions under which goods and services are procured from and marketed to natural or 
legal persons of the other Party. 
 
 
SECTION C 
 
SUBSIDIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.5 
 
Definition and Scope 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Agreement, a subsidy is a measure which fulfils the 
conditions set out in Article 1.1 of the SCM Agreement, mutatis mutandis, irrespective of 
whether the subsidy is granted in relation to the production of goods or of services.2 
 
                                                 
2  This paragraph does not prejudice the outcome of future discussions in the WTO on the definition of 
subsidies for services. The Parties shall give positive consideration to the adoption of a possible decision 
by the Trade Committee to update this Agreement to reflect the agreement reached at the WTO on the 
definition of subsidies for services. 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 5 
 2.  Subsidies shall be subject to this Chapter only if they are specific, within the meaning 
of Article 2 of the SCM Agreement. Any subsidy falling under Article 11.7 (Prohibited 
Subsidies) shall be deemed to be specific. 
 
3.  Articles 11.7 (Prohibited Subsidies), 11.8 (Other Subsidies) and 11.10 (Review Clause) 
and Annex 11-A shall not apply to fisheries subsidies, subsidies related to products covered 
by Annex 1 of the Agreement on Agriculture and other subsidies covered by the Agreement 
on Agriculture. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.6 
 
Relationship with the WTO 
 
The provisions in this Section are without prejudice to the rights and obligations of a Party 
under the WTO Agreement, in particular to apply trade remedies or to engage in dispute 
settlement proceedings or other appropriate action against a subsidy granted by the other 
Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.7 
 
Prohibited Subsidies 
 
1.  With respect to subsidies related to trade in goods, the Parties affirm their rights and 
obligations under Article 3 of the SCM Agreement, which is hereby incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 6 
 2.  The following subsidies related to trade in goods and services shall be prohibited 
unless the subsidising Party upon the request of the other Party has demonstrated that the 
subsidy in question does not affect trade of the other Party nor will be likely to do so: 
 
(a)  any legal arrangements whereby a government or any public body is responsible for 
covering debts or liabilities of certain undertakings without any limitation in law or in 
fact as to the amount of those debts and liabilities or the duration of such 
responsibility; and 
 
(b)  any support to insolvent or ailing undertakings in whatever form (such as loans and 
guarantees, cash grants, capital injections, provision of assets below market prices, tax 
exemptions) without a credible restructuring plan, based on realistic assumptions, 
with a view to ensuring the return of the ailing undertaking to long-term viability 
within a reasonable time, and without the undertaking itself significantly contributing 
to the costs of restructuring.3 
 
3.  Subparagraphs 2(a) and 2(b) do not prevent a Party from providing subsidies to 
remedy a serious disturbance in its economy. A serious disturbance in the economy of a 
Party means an exceptional, temporary and significant crisis which affects the whole 
economy of the Party rather than a specific region or economic sector of that Party. 
 
4.  Subparagraph 2(b) does not apply to subsidies granted as compensation for carrying 
out public service obligations nor to subsidies to the coal industry. 
 
 
                                                 
3  This does not prevent the Parties from providing temporary liquidity support in the form of loan 
guarantees or loans limited to the amount needed to merely to keep an ailing undertaking in business 
for the time necessary to work out a restructuring or liquidation plan. 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 7 
 ARTICLE 11.8 
 
Other Subsidies 
 
1.  The Parties agree to use their best endeavours to apply their competition law or 
other laws to remedy or remove distortions of competition caused by other specific 
subsidies related to trade in goods and services which are not covered by Article 11.7 
(Prohibited Subsidies), insofar as they affect or are likely to affect trade of either Party, and 
also to prevent the occurrence of such situations. Annex 11-A contains guidance in 
particular on the types of subsidies which do not produce these effects. 
 
2.  The Parties agree to exchange information at the request of either Party and hold a 
first dialogue within two years of the entry into force of this Agreement with a view to 
developing rules applicable to other subsidies, taking into account developments at 
multilateral level. To that end, the Parties may take a decision in the Trade Committee. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.9 
 
Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure transparency in the area of subsidies that relate to trade in 
goods or to the supply of services. To that end, each Party shall report every two years to 
the other Party on the legal basis, the form, and to the extent possible, the amount or 
budget, and the recipients of subsidies granted by its government or any public body. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 8 
 2.  Such report shall be deemed to have been provided if the relevant information was 
made available by the Parties, or on their behalf, on a publicly accessible website by June of 
the second calendar year after the subsidies were granted. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.10 
 
Review Clause 
 
The Parties shall keep under constant review the matters to which reference is made in this 
Section. Each Party may refer such matters to the Trade Committee. The Parties agree to 
review progress in implementing this Section every two years after the entry into force of 
this Agreement, unless both Parties agree otherwise. 
 
 
SECTION D 
 
GENERAL MATTERS 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.11 
 
Cooperation and Coordination in Law Enforcement 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of cooperation and coordination to further enhance 
effective law enforcement. Their respective authorities shall endeavour to coordinate and 
cooperate in the enforcement of their respective laws to fulfil the objective of this 
Agreement of free and undistorted competition in their trade relations. 
 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 9 
 ARTICLE 11.12 
 
Confidentiality 
 
1.  When a Party communicates information under this Agreement, that Party shall 
ensure the protection of business secrets and other confidential information. 
 
2.  When a Party communicates information in confidence under this Agreement, the 
receiving Party shall, consistent with its laws and regulations, maintain the confidentiality of 
that communicated information. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.13 
 
Consultation 
 
1.  To foster mutual understanding between the Parties or to address specific matters 
that arise under Section A (Anti-Competitive Conduct and Mergers), Section B (Public 
Undertakings, Undertakings Entrusted with Special or Exclusive Rights and State 
Monopolies) or Section D (General Matters), each Party upon the request of the other Party, 
shall enter into consultations regarding representations made by the other Party. In its 
requests, the Party shall indicate, if relevant, how the matter affects trade between the 
Parties. 
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 10 
 2.  The Parties shall promptly discuss, upon the request of a Party, any questions arising 
from the interpretation or application of Section A (Anti-Competitive Conduct and Mergers), 
Section B (Public Undertakings, Undertakings Entrusted with Special or Exclusive Rights and 
State Monopolies) or Section D (General Matters). 
 
3.  To facilitate discussion of the matter that is the subject of the consultations, each 
Party shall endeavour to provide relevant non-confidential information to the other Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11.14 
 
Dispute Settlement and Mediation Mechanism 
 
Neither Party may have recourse to Chapter Fourteen (Dispute Settlement) and 
Chapter Fifteen (Mediation Mechanism) for any matter arising under this Chapter except for 
Article 11.7 (Prohibited Subsidies). 
 
 
 
   
 
EUSFTA Chapter 11 - 11 
 