EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 1  ANNEX 8   RULES ON PUBLIC ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS,  HEARINGS AND THE POSSIBILITY  OF THIRD PERSONS TO MAKE SUBMISSIONS   ARTICLE 1  1. Subject to Articles 2 and 4 of this Annex, the respondent, after receiving the following documents, shall promptly transmit them to the non-disputing Party and to the repository referred to in Article 5 of this Annex, who shall make them available to the public:  (a) the request for consultations referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 3.3 (Consultations);  (b) the notice of intent referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent);  (c) the determination of the respondent referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent);  (d) the submission of a claim referred to in Article 3.6 (Submission of Claim to Tribunal);  EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 2  (e) pleadings, memorials, and briefs submitted to the Tribunal by a disputing party, expert reports, and any written submissions submitted pursuant to Article 3.17 (The non-disputing Party to the Agreement) and Article 3 of this Annex;  (f) minutes or transcripts of hearings of the Tribunal, where available; and  (g) orders, awards, and decisions of the Tribunal or, where applicable, of the President or Vice President of the Tribunal.  2. Subject to the exceptions set out in Article 4 of this Annex, the Tribunal may decide, on its own initiative or upon request from any person, and after consultation with the disputing parties, whether and how to make available any other documents not falling within paragraph 1 that were provided to or issued by the Tribunal. This may include, for example, making such documents available at a specified site or through the repository referred to in Article 5 of this Annex.   ARTICLE 2  The Tribunal shall conduct hearings open to the public and shall determine, the appropriate logistical arrangements in consultation with the disputing parties. However, any disputing party that intends to use information designated as protected information in a hearing shall so advise the Tribunal. The Tribunal shall make appropriate arrangements to protect such information from disclosure.   EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 3  ARTICLE 3  1. After consultations with the disputing parties, the Tribunal may allow a person who is not a disputing party and not a non-disputing Party to the Agreement (hereinafter referred to as "third person") to file a written submission with the Tribunal regarding a matter within the scope of the dispute.  2. A third person wishing to make a submission shall apply to the Tribunal, providing the following written information in a language of the proceedings, in a concise manner, and within such page limits as may be set by the Tribunal:  (a) a description of the third person, including, where relevant, its membership and legal status (e.g. trade association or other non-governmental organisation), its general objectives, the nature of its activities, and any parent organisation, including any organisation that directly or indirectly controls the third person;  (b) the disclosure of any connections, direct or indirect, which the third person has with any disputing party;  (c) information on any government, person or organisation that has provided any financial or other assistance in preparing the submission or that has provided substantial assistance to the third person in either of the two years preceding the application by the third person under this Article (e.g. funding around 20 per cent of its overall operations annually);  EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 4  (d) a description of the nature of the interest that the third person has in the proceedings; and  (e) identification of the specific issues of fact or law in the proceedings that the third person wishes to address in its written submission.  3. In determining whether to allow such a submission, the Tribunal shall take into consideration, among other things:  (a) whether the third person has a significant interest in the proceedings; and  (b) the extent to which the submission would assist the Tribunal in the determination of a factual or legal issue related to the proceedings, by bringing perspectives, particular knowledge or insights that are different from that of the disputing parties.  4. The submission filed by the third person shall:  (a) be dated and signed by the person filing the submission on behalf of the third person;  (b) be concise, and in no case longer than as authorised by the Tribunal;  (c) set out a precise statement of the third person's position on issues; and  (d) only address matters within the scope of the dispute.  EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 5  5. The Tribunal shall ensure that such submissions do not disrupt or unduly burden the proceedings or unfairly prejudice any disputing party. The Tribunal may adopt any appropriate procedures where necessary to manage multiple submissions.  6. The Tribunal shall ensure that the disputing parties are given a reasonable opportunity to present their observations on any submission by a third person.   ARTICLE 4  1. Confidential or protected information, as defined in paragraph 2, that has been identified in accordance with this Article, shall not be made available to the public.  2. Confidential or protected information consists of:  (a) confidential business information;  (b) information which is protected against being made available to the public under this Agreement;  (c) information which is protected against being made available to the public, in the case of information of the respondent, under the law of the respondent and in the case of other information, under any law or rules determined to be applicable to the disclosure of such information by the Tribunal.  EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 6  3. Where a document other than an order or decision of the Tribunal is to be made available to the public pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 1 of this Annex, at the time of submission of the document, the disputing party, non-disputing Party or third person who submits the document shall:  (a) indicate whether it contends that the document contains information which must be protected from publication;  (b) clearly designate the information at the time it is submitted to the Tribunal; and  (c) promptly or within the time set by the Tribunal, submit a redacted version of the document that does not contain such information.  4. Where a document other than an order or decision of the Tribunal is to be made available to the public pursuant to a decision of the Tribunal under paragraph 2 of Article 1 of this Annex, within 30 days of the Tribunal's decision that the document is to be made available to the public, the disputing party, non-disputing Party or third person who has submitted the document shall indicate whether it contends that the document contains information which must be protected from disclosure and submit a redacted version of the document that does not contain the said information.  5. Where a redaction is proposed under paragraph 4, any disputing party other than the person who submitted the document in question may object to the proposed redaction or propose that the document be redacted differently. Any such objection or counter-proposal shall be made within 30 days of receipt of the proposed redacted document.  EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 7  6. Where an order, decision or award of the Tribunal is to be made available to the public pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 1 of this Annex, the Tribunal shall give all disputing parties an opportunity to make submissions as to the extent to which the document contains information which must be protected from publication and to propose redaction of the document to prevent the publication of the said information.  7. The Tribunal shall rule on all questions relating to the proposed redaction of documents under paragraphs 3 to 6, and shall determine, in the exercise of its discretion, the extent to which any information contained in documents which are to be made available to the public, should be redacted.  8. If the Tribunal determines that information should not be redacted from a document pursuant to paragraphs 3 to 6, or that a document should not be prevented from being made available to the public, within 30 days of the Tribunal's determination, the disputing party, non-disputing Party or third person that voluntarily submitted the document into the record may:  (a) withdraw all or part of the document containing such information from the record of the proceedings; or  (b) resubmit the document in a form which complies with the Tribunal's determination.  EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 8  9. Any disputing party that intends to use information which it contends is confidential or protected information in a hearing shall so advise the Tribunal. The Tribunal, after consultation with the disputing parties, shall decide whether that information should be protected and shall make arrangements to prevent any protected information from becoming public in accordance with Article 2 of this Annex.  10. Information shall not be made available to the public where the information, if made available to the public, would jeopardise the integrity of the dispute settlement process as determined pursuant to paragraph 11.  11. The Tribunal, on its own initiative or upon the application of a disputing party, after consultation with the disputing parties where practicable, may take appropriate measures to restrain or delay the publication of information where such publication would jeopardise the integrity of the dispute settlement process:  (a) because it could hamper the collection or production of evidence; or  (b) because it could lead to the intimidation of witnesses, lawyers acting for disputing parties, or members of the Tribunal; or  (c) in comparably exceptional circumstances.   EUSFTA-IPA Annex 8 - 9  ARTICLE 5  The Secretary-General of the United Nations, through the UNCITRAL Secretariat, shall act as repository and shall make available to the public information pursuant to this Annex.   ARTICLE 6  Where this Annex provides for the Tribunal to exercise discretion, when exercising that discretion the Tribunal shall take into account:  (a) the public interest in transparency in treaty-based investment dispute resolution and of the particular proceedings; and  (b) the disputing parties' interest in a fair and efficient resolution of their dispute.   ________________   