 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 1 
 
CHAPTER THREE 
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES BETWEEN INVESTORS AND PARTIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.1 
 
Scope and Definitions 
 
1. 
This Section applies to disputes between a claimant of one Party and the other Party 
concerning treatment1 alleged to breach the provisions of Chapter Two (Investment 
Protection), where such breach allegedly causes loss or damage to the claimant or its locally 
established company. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Section, unless otherwise specified: 
 
(a) 
"disputing parties" means the claimant and the respondent; 
 
                                                           
1 
The Parties understand that the term "treatment" may include failures to act. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 2 
 
(b) 
"claimant" means an investor of a Party that seeks to submit a claim pursuant to this 
Section, or has submitted such a claim, either: 
 
(i) 
acting on its own behalf; or 
 
(ii) 
acting on behalf of a locally established company, as defined in subparagraph 
(c), which it owns or controls2; 
 
(c) 
"locally established company" means a juridical person that is owned or controlled3 by 
an investor of one Party, established in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(d) 
"non-disputing Party" means either Singapore, in the case where the respondent is 
the Union or a Member State of the Union, or the Union, in the case where Singapore 
is the respondent; 
 
(e) 
"respondent" means either Singapore, or in the case of the EU Party, either the Union 
or the Member State of the Union as notified pursuant to Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent); 
and 
 
                                                           
2 
For the avoidance of doubt, subparagraph 2(b) shall constitute the Parties' agreement to treat a 
locally established company as a national of another Contracting State for the purposes of subparagraph 2(b) 
of Article 25 of the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of 
Other States of 18 March 1965. 
3 
A juridical person is: 
(a) owned by natural or juridical persons of the other Party if more than 50 per cent of the 
equity interest in it is beneficially owned by natural or juridical persons of that Party; 
(b) controlled by natural or juridical persons of the other Party if such natural or juridical 
persons have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its 
actions. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 3 
 
(f) 
"third party funding" means any funding provided by a natural or juridical person who 
is not a party to the dispute, where such person enters into an agreement with a 
disputing party in order to finance part or all of the cost of the proceedings in return 
for a share or other interest in the proceeds or potential proceeds of the proceedings 
to which the disputing party may become entitled, or where such person provides 
such funding in the form of a donation or grant. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.2 
 
Amicable Resolution 
 
Any dispute should as far as possible be resolved amicably through negotiations and, where 
possible, before the submission of a request for consultations pursuant to Article 3.3 
(Consultations). An amicable resolution may be agreed at any time, including after dispute 
settlement proceedings under this Section have been commenced. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.3 
 
Consultations 
 
1. 
Where a dispute cannot be resolved as provided for under Article 3.2 (Amicable 
Resolution), a claimant of a Party alleging a breach of the provisions of Chapter Two 
(Investment Protection) may submit a request for consultations to the other Party. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 4 
 
2. 
The request for consultations shall contain the following information: 
 
(a) 
the name and address of the claimant and, where such request is submitted on behalf 
of a locally established company, the name, address, and place of incorporation of the 
locally established company; 
 
(b) 
the provisions of Chapter Two (Investment Protection) that are alleged to have been 
breached; 
 
(c) 
the legal and factual basis for the dispute, including the treatment that is alleged to 
breach the provisions of Chapter Two (Investment Protection); and 
 
(d) 
the relief sought and the estimated loss or damage that was allegedly caused to the 
claimant or its locally established company by reason of that breach. 
 
3. 
The request for consultations shall be submitted: 
 
(a) 
within 30 months of the date on which the claimant or, as applicable, the locally 
established company, first acquired, or should have first acquired, knowledge of the 
treatment alleged to breach the provisions of Chapter Two (Investment Protection); or 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 5 
 
(b) 
in the event that local remedies are being pursued when the time period referred to in 
subparagraph (a) elapses, within one year of the date on which the claimant or, as 
applicable, the locally established company, ceases to pursue those local remedies, 
and, in any event, no later than 10 years after the date on which the claimant or, as 
applicable, its locally established company, first acquired, or should have first 
acquired, knowledge of the treatment alleged to breach the provisions of Chapter Two 
(Investment Protection). 
 
4. 
In the event that the claimant has not submitted a claim pursuant to 
Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) within 18 months of submitting the 
request for consultations, the claimant shall be deemed to have withdrawn its request for 
consultations and any notice of intent, and shall be deemed to have waived its rights to 
bring such a claim. This period may be extended by agreement between the parties involved 
in the consultations. 
 
5. 
The time periods referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not render a claim 
inadmissible where the claimant can demonstrate that the failure to request consultations 
or submit a claim, as the case may be, is due to the claimant's inability to act as a result of 
actions deliberately taken by the other Party, provided that the claimant acts as soon as it is 
reasonably able to act. 
 
6. 
In the event that the request for consultations concerns an alleged breach of this 
Agreement by the Union, or by any Member State of the Union, it shall be sent to the Union. 
 
7. 
The disputing parties may hold the consultations through video conference or other 
means, where appropriate, such as in the case where the claimant is a small or medium-
sized enterprise. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 6 
 
ARTICLE 3.4 
 
Mediation and Alternative Dispute Resolution 
 
1. 
The disputing parties may at any time, including prior to the delivery of a notice of 
intent, agree to have recourse to mediation. 
 
2. 
Recourse to mediation is voluntary and without prejudice to the legal position of 
either disputing party. 
 
3. 
Recourse to mediation may be governed by the rules set out in Annex 6 (Mediation 
Mechanism for Disputes between Investors and Parties) or such other rules as the disputing 
parties may agree. Any time limit mentioned in Annex 6 (Mediation Mechanism for Disputes 
between Investors and Parties) may be modified by mutual agreement between the 
disputing parties. 
 
4. 
The mediator shall be appointed by agreement of the disputing parties or in 
accordance with Article 3 (Selection of the Mediator) of Annex 6 (Mediation Mechanism for 
Disputes between Investors and Parties). Mediators shall comply with Annex 7 (Code of 
Conduct for Members of the Tribunal, the Appeal Tribunal and Mediators). 
 
5. 
The disputing parties shall endeavour to reach a mutually agreed solution within 60 
days of the appointment of the mediator. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 7 
 
6. 
Once the disputing parties agree to have recourse to mediation, paragraphs 3 and 4 
of Article 3.3 (Consultations) shall not apply between the date on which it was agreed to 
have recourse to mediation and 30 days after the date on which either party to the dispute 
decides to put an end to the mediation by way of a letter to the mediator and the other 
disputing party. 
 
7. 
Nothing in this Article shall preclude the disputing parties from having recourse to 
other forms of alternative dispute resolution. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.5 
 
Notice of Intent 
 
1. 
If the dispute cannot be settled within three months of the submission of the 
request for consultations, the claimant may deliver a notice of intent, which shall specify in 
writing the claimant's intention to submit the claim to dispute settlement, and shall contain 
the following information: 
 
(a) 
the name and address of the claimant and, where such request is submitted on behalf 
of a locally established company, the name, address, and place of incorporation of the 
locally established company; 
 
(b) 
the provisions of Chapter Two (Investment Protection) that are alleged to have been 
breached; 
 
(c) 
the legal and factual basis for the dispute, including the treatment that is alleged to 
breach the provisions of Chapter Two (Investment Protection); and 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 8 
 
(d) 
the relief sought and the estimated loss or damage that was allegedly caused to the 
claimant or its locally established company by reason of that breach. 
 
The notice of intent shall be sent to the Union or to Singapore, as the case may be. 
 
2. 
Where a notice of intent has been sent to the Union, the Union shall make a 
determination of the respondent within two months of the date of receipt of the notice. The 
Union shall inform the claimant of this determination immediately, on the basis of which the 
claimant may submit a claim pursuant to Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal). 
 
3. 
Where no determination of the respondent has been made pursuant to paragraph 2, 
the following shall apply: 
 
(a) 
in the event that the notice of intent exclusively identifies treatment by a Member 
State of the Union, that Member State shall act as respondent; 
 
(b) 
in the event that the notice of intent identifies any treatment by an institution, body 
or agency of the Union, the Union shall act as respondent. 
 
4. 
Where either the Union or a Member State acts as respondent, neither the Union 
nor the Member State concerned shall assert the inadmissibility of a claim, or otherwise 
assert that a claim or award is unfounded or invalid, on the grounds that the proper 
respondent should be or should have been the Union rather than the Member State or vice 
versa. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 9 
 
5. 
For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement or the applicable dispute settlement 
rules shall prevent the Union and the Member State concerned from exchanging any 
information relating to a dispute. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.6 
 
Submission of Claims to the Tribunal 
 
1. 
No earlier than three months from the date of the notice of intent delivered 
pursuant to Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent), the claimant may submit the claim to the Tribunal 
under one of the following dispute settlement rules4: 
 
(a) 
the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and 
Nationals of Other States of 18 March 1965 (hereinafter referred to as the "ICSID 
Convention"), provided that both the respondent and the State of the claimant are 
parties to the ICSID Convention; 
 
                                                           
4 
For greater certainty: 
(a) the rules of the relevant dispute settlement mechanisms shall apply subject to the specific 
rules set out in this Section, and supplemented by decisions adopted pursuant to subparagraph 
4(g) of Article 4.1 (Committee); and 
(b) claims where a representative submits a claim in the name of a class composed of an 
undetermined number of unidentified claimants and intends to conduct the proceedings by 
representing the interests of such claimants and making all decisions relating to the conduct of 
the claim on their behalf shall not be admissible. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 10 
 
(b) 
the ICSID Convention, in accordance with the Rules on the Additional Facility for the 
Administration of Proceedings by the Secretariat of the International Centre for 
Settlement of Investment Disputes (hereinafter referred to as the "ICSID Additional 
Facility Rules"), provided that either the respondent or the State of the claimant is a 
party to the ICSID Convention;5 
 
(c) 
the arbitration rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade 
Law (UNCITRAL); or 
 
(d) 
any other rules if the disputing parties so agree. 
 
2. 
Paragraph 1 of this Article shall constitute the consent of the respondent to the 
submission of a claim under this Section. The consent under paragraph 1 and the submission 
of a claim under this Section shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of: 
 
(a) 
Chapter II of the ICSID Convention, and the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, for written 
consent of the disputing parties; and 
 
(b) 
Article II of the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of 
Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at New York on 10 June 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 
the "New York Convention") for an "agreement in writing". 
 
 
                                                           
5 
For the purpose of subparagraphs (a) and (b), the term "State" is deemed to include the Union, if the 
Union accedes to the ICSID Convention. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 11 
 
ARTICLE 3.7 
 
Conditions to the Submission of Claim 
 
1. 
A claim may be submitted under this Section only if: 
 
(a) 
the submission of the claim is accompanied by the claimant's written consent to 
dispute settlement in accordance with the procedures set out in this Section and by 
the claimant's designation of one of the fora rules referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 
3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) as the rules for dispute settlement; 
 
(b) 
at least six months have elapsed since the submission of the request for consultations 
under Article 3.3 (Consultations) and at least three months have elapsed since the 
submission of the notice of intent under Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent); 
 
(c) 
the request for consultations and the notice of intent submitted by the claimant 
fulfilled the requirements set out in paragraph 2 of Article 3.3 (Consultations) and 
paragraph 1 of Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent) respectively; 
 
(d) 
the legal and factual basis of the dispute was subject to prior consultation pursuant to 
Article 3.3 (Consultations); 
 
(e) 
all the claims identified in the submission of the claim made pursuant to 
Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to Tribunal) are based on treatment identified in the 
notice of intent made pursuant to Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent); and 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 12 
 
(f) 
the claimant: 
 
(i) 
withdraws any pending claim submitted to the Tribunal, or to any other 
domestic or international court or tribunal under domestic or international law, 
concerning the same treatment as alleged to breach the provisions of Chapter 
Two (Investment Protection); 
 
(ii) 
declares that it will not submit such a claim in the future; and 
 
(iii) 
declares that it will not enforce any award rendered pursuant to this Section 
before such award has become final, and that it will not seek to appeal, review, 
set aside, annul or revise, or initiate any other similar procedure before an 
international or domestic court or tribunal, as regards an award pursuant to this 
Section. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of subparagraph 1(f), the term "claimant" refers to the investor 
and, where applicable, to the locally established company. In addition, for the purposes of 
subparagraph 1(f)(i) the term "claimant" includes all persons who directly or indirectly have 
an ownership interest in, or who are controlled by the investor or, where applicable, the 
locally established company. 
 
3. 
Upon request by the respondent, the Tribunal shall decline jurisdiction where the 
claimant fails to respect any of the requirements or declarations referred to in paragraphs 1 
and 2. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 13 
 
4. 
Subparagraph 1(f) shall not prevent the claimant from seeking interim measures of 
protection before the courts or administrative tribunals of the respondent prior to the 
institution of proceedings before any of the dispute settlement fora referred to in Article 3.6 
(Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) or while such proceedings are pending. For the 
purposes of this Article, interim measures of protection shall be for the sole purpose of the 
preservation of the claimant's rights and interests, and shall not involve the payment of 
damages or the resolution of the substance of the matter in dispute. 
 
5. 
For greater certainty, the Tribunal shall decline jurisdiction if the dispute had arisen, 
or was very likely to arise, at the time when the claimant acquired ownership or control of 
the investment subject to the dispute, and the Tribunal determines, based on the facts, that 
the claimant acquired ownership or control of the investment for the main purpose of 
submitting the claim under this Section. This paragraph is without prejudice to other 
jurisdictional objections which could be entertained by the Tribunal. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.8 
 
Third Party Funding 
 
1. 
Any disputing party benefiting from third party funding shall notify the other 
disputing party and the Tribunal of the name and address of the third party funder. 
 
2. 
Such notification shall be made at the time the claim is submitted, or without delay 
as soon as the third party funding is agreed, donated or granted, as applicable. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 14 
 
ARTICLE 3.9 
 
Tribunal of First Instance 
 
1. 
A Tribunal of First Instance ("Tribunal") is hereby established to hear claims 
submitted pursuant to Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal). 
 
2. 
The Committee shall, upon the entry into force of this Agreement, appoint six 
Members to the Tribunal. For the purposes of this appointment: 
 
(a) 
The EU Party shall nominate two Members; 
 
(b) 
Singapore shall nominate two Members; and 
 
(c) 
The EU Party and Singapore shall jointly nominate two Members, who shall not be 
nationals of any Member State of the Union or of Singapore. 
 
3. 
The Committee may decide to increase or to decrease the number of the Members 
by multiples of three. Additional appointments shall be made on the same basis as provided 
for in paragraph 2. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 15 
 
4. 
The Members shall possess the qualifications required in their respective countries 
for appointment to judicial office, or be jurists of recognised competence. They shall have 
specialised knowledge of, or experience in, public international law. It is desirable that they 
have expertise, in particular, in international investment law, international trade law, or the 
resolution of disputes arising under international investment or international trade 
agreements. 
 
5. 
The Members shall be appointed for an eight-year term. However, the inaugural 
terms of three of the six persons appointed immediately after the entry into force of this 
Agreement, to be determined by lot, shall extend to twelve years. A Member's term of 
appointment may be renewed by a decision of the Committee upon the expiry of that 
Member's term. Vacancies shall be filled as they arise. A person appointed to replace a 
person whose term of office has not expired shall hold office for the remainder of the 
predecessor's term. A person who is serving on a division of the Tribunal when his or her 
term expires may, with the authorisation of the President of the Tribunal, continue to serve 
on the division until the closure of the proceedings of that division and shall be deemed to 
continue to be a Member of the Tribunal for that purpose only. 
 
6. 
There shall be a President and Vice-President of the Tribunal, who shall be 
responsible for organisational issues. They will be appointed for a four-year term and shall 
be drawn by lot from among the Members who have been appointed pursuant to paragraph 
2(c). They shall serve on the basis of a rotation drawn by lot by the Chair of the Committee. 
The Vice-President shall replace the President when the President is unavailable. 
 
7. 
The Tribunal shall hear cases in divisions consisting of three Members, of whom one 
each shall have been appointed pursuant to paragraphs 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c), respectively. 
The division shall be chaired by the Member who had been appointed pursuant to 
paragraph 2(c). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 16 
 
8. 
Within 90 days of the submission of a claim pursuant to Article 3.6 (Submission of 
Claims to the Tribunal), the President of the Tribunal shall appoint the Members composing 
the division of the Tribunal hearing the case on a rotation basis, ensuring that the 
composition of each division is random and unpredictable, while giving equal opportunity to 
all Members to serve. 
 
9. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 7, the disputing parties may agree that a case be heard 
by a sole Member. This Member shall be selected by the President of the Tribunal from 
among those Members who had been appointed pursuant to paragraph 2(c). The 
respondent shall give sympathetic consideration to such a request from the claimant, in 
particular where the claimant is a small or medium-sized enterprise or the compensation or 
damages claimed are relatively low. Such a request should be made at the same time as the 
filing of the claim pursuant to Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal). 
 
10. 
The Tribunal shall draw up its own working procedures. 
 
11. 
The Members of the Tribunal shall ensure that they are available and able to 
perform the functions set out in this Section. 
 
12. 
In order to ensure their availability, the Members shall be paid a monthly retainer 
fee to be fixed by decision of the Committee. The President of the Tribunal and, where 
applicable, the Vice-President, shall receive a fee equivalent to the fee determined pursuant 
to Article 3.10(11) (Appeal Tribunal) for each day worked in fulfilling the functions of 
President of the Tribunal pursuant to this Section. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 17 
 
13. 
The retainer fee and the daily fees for the President or Vice-President of the 
Tribunal, when fulfilling the functions of President of the Tribunal pursuant to this Section, 
shall be paid equally by both Parties into an account managed by the Secretariat of ICSID. In 
the event that one Party fails to pay the retainer fee or the daily fees, the other Party may 
elect to pay. Any such arrears will remain payable, with appropriate interest. 
 
14. 
Unless the Committee adopts a decision pursuant to paragraph 15, the amount of 
the other fees and expenses of the Members on a division of the Tribunal shall be those 
determined pursuant to Regulation 14(1) of the Administrative and Financial Regulations of 
the ICSID Convention in force on the date of the submission of the claim and allocated by 
the Tribunal among the disputing parties in accordance with Article 3.21 (Costs). 
 
15. 
Upon a decision by the Committee, the retainer fee and other fees and expenses 
may be permanently transformed into a regular salary. In such an event, the Members shall 
serve on a full-time basis and the Committee shall fix their remuneration and related 
organisational matters. In that event, the Members shall not be permitted to engage in any 
other occupation, whether gainful or not, unless the President of the Tribunal exceptionally 
grants that Member an exemption. 
 
16. 
The Secretariat of ICSID shall act as Secretariat for the Tribunal and provide it with 
appropriate support. The expenses for such support shall be allocated by the Tribunal 
among the disputing parties in accordance with Article 3.21 (Costs). 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 18 
 
ARTICLE 3.10 
 
Appeal Tribunal 
 
1. 
A permanent Appeal Tribunal is hereby established to hear appeals from provisional 
awards issued by the Tribunal. 
 
2. 
The Committee shall, upon the entry into force of this Agreement, appoint six 
Members to the Appeal Tribunal. For the purposes of this appointment: 
 
(a) 
The EU Party shall nominate two Members; 
 
(b) 
Singapore shall nominate two Members; and 
 
(c) 
The EU Party and Singapore shall jointly nominate two Members, who shall not be 
nationals of any Member State of the Union or of Singapore. 
 
3. 
The Committee may decide to increase or to decrease the number of the Members 
of the Appeal Tribunal by multiples of three. Additional appointments shall be made on the 
same basis as provided for in paragraph 2. 
 
4. 
The Appeal Tribunal Members shall possess the qualifications required in their 
respective countries for appointment to the highest judicial offices, or be jurists of 
recognised competence. They shall have specialised knowledge of, or experience in, public 
international law. It is desirable that they have expertise, in particular, in international 
investment law, international trade law, or the resolution of disputes arising under 
international investment or international trade agreements. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 19 
 
5. 
The Appeal Tribunal Members shall be appointed for an eight-year term. However, 
the inaugural terms of three of the six persons appointed immediately after the entry into 
force of this Agreement, to be determined by lot, shall extend to twelve years. A Member's 
term of appointment may be renewed by a decision of the Committee upon the expiry of 
that Member's term. Vacancies shall be filled as they arise. A person appointed to replace a 
person whose term of office has not expired shall hold office for the remainder of the 
predecessor's term. A person who is serving on a division of the Appeal Tribunal when his or 
her term expires may, with the authorisation of the President of the Appeal Tribunal, 
continue to serve on the division until the closure of the proceedings of that division and 
shall be deemed to continue to be a Member of the Appeal Tribunal for that purpose only. 
 
6. 
There shall be a President and Vice-President of the Appeal Tribunal who shall be 
responsible for organisational issues. They will be appointed for a four-year term, and shall 
be drawn by a lot from among the Appeal Tribunal Members who have been appointed 
pursuant to paragraph 2(c). They shall serve on the basis of a rotation drawn by lot by the 
Chair of the Committee. The Vice-President shall replace the President when the President 
is unavailable. 
 
7. 
The Appeal Tribunal shall hear cases in divisions consisting of three Members, of 
whom one each shall have been appointed pursuant to paragraphs 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c), 
respectively. The division shall be chaired by the Member who had been appointed 
pursuant to paragraph 2(c). 
 
8. 
The President of the Appeal Tribunal shall appoint the Members composing the 
division of the Appeal Tribunal hearing the appeal on a rotation basis, ensuring that the 
composition of each division is random and unpredictable, while giving equal opportunity to 
all Members to serve. 
 
9. 
The Appeal Tribunal shall draw up its own working procedures. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 20 
 
10. 
The Appeal Tribunal Members shall ensure that they are available and able to 
perform the functions set out in this Section. 
 
11. 
In order to ensure their availability, the Members shall be paid a monthly retainer 
fee and receive a fee for each day worked as a Member, to be determined by decision of the 
Committee. The President of the Appeal Tribunal and, where applicable, the Vice-President, 
shall receive a fee for each day worked in fulfilling the functions of President of the Appeal 
Tribunal pursuant to this Section. 
 
12. 
The retainer fee and the daily fees for the President or Vice-President of the Appeal 
Tribunal when working in fulfilling the functions of President of the Appeal Tribunal 
pursuant to this Section shall be paid equally by both Parties into an account managed by 
the Secretariat of ICSID. In the event that one Party fails to pay the retainer fee or the daily 
fees, the other Party may elect to pay. Any such arrears will remain payable, with 
appropriate interest. 
 
13. 
Upon a decision by the Committee, the retainer fee and the daily fees may be 
permanently transformed into a regular salary. In such an event, the Appeal Tribunal 
Members shall serve on a full-time basis and the Committee shall fix their remuneration and 
related organisational matters. In that event, the Appeal Tribunal Members shall not be 
permitted to engage in any other occupation, whether gainful or not, unless exemption is 
exceptionally granted by the President of the Appeal Tribunal. 
 
14. 
The Secretariat of ICSID shall act as Secretariat for the Appeal Tribunal and provide it 
with appropriate support. The expenses for such support shall be allocated by the Tribunal 
among the disputing parties in accordance with Article 3.21 (Costs). 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 21 
 
ARTICLE 3.11 
 
Ethics 
 
1. 
The Members of the Tribunal and of the Appeal Tribunal shall be chosen from among 
persons whose independence is beyond doubt. They shall not be affiliated with any 
government,6 and, in particular, shall not take instructions from any government or 
organisation with regard to matters related to the dispute. They shall not participate in the 
consideration of any disputes that would create a direct or indirect conflict of interest. In so 
doing they shall comply with Annex 7 (Code of Conduct for Members of the Tribunal, the 
Appeal Tribunal and Mediators). In addition, upon appointment, they shall refrain from 
acting as counsel, party-appointed expert or party-appointed witness in any pending or new 
investment protection dispute under this or any other agreement or domestic law. 
 
2. 
If a disputing party considers that a Member has conflict of interest, it shall send a 
notice of challenge of that Member's appointment to the President of the Tribunal or to the 
President of the Appeal Tribunal, respectively. The notice of challenge shall be sent within 
15 days of the date on which the composition of the division of the Tribunal or of the Appeal 
Tribunal has been communicated to the disputing party, or within 15 days of the date on 
which the relevant facts came to its knowledge, if they could not have reasonably been 
known at the time of composition of the division. The notice of challenge shall state the 
grounds for the challenge. 
 
                                                           
6 
For greater certainty, the fact that a person receives an income from the government, or was 
formerly employed by the government, or has family relationship with a person who receives an income from 
the government, does not in itself render that person ineligible. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 22 
 
3. 
If, within 15 days of the date of the notice of challenge, the challenged Member has 
elected not to resign from that division, the President of the Tribunal or the President of the 
Appeal Tribunal, respectively, shall, after hearing the disputing parties and after providing 
the Member an opportunity to submit any observations, issue a decision within 45 days of 
receipt of the notice of challenge and notify the disputing parties and other Members of the 
division without delay. 
 
4. 
Challenges against the appointment to a division of the President of the Tribunal 
shall be decided by the President of the Appeal Tribunal and vice-versa. 
 
5. 
Upon a reasoned recommendation from the President of the Appeal Tribunal, the 
Parties, by decision of the Committee, may decide to remove a Member from the Tribunal 
or from the Appeal Tribunal, where his or her behaviour is inconsistent with the obligations 
set out in paragraph 1 and is incompatible with his or her continued membership of the 
Tribunal or Appeal Tribunal. If the behaviour in question is alleged to be that of the 
President of the Appeal Tribunal then the President of the Tribunal of First Instance shall 
submit the reasoned recommendation. Articles 3.9(5) (Tribunal of First Instance) and 3.10(5) 
(Appeal Tribunal) shall apply mutatis mutandis for filling vacancies that may arise pursuant 
to this paragraph. 
 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 23 
 
ARTICLE 3.12 
 
Multilateral Dispute Settlement Mechanism 
 
The Parties shall pursue, with each other and with other interested trading partners, the 
establishment of a multilateral investment tribunal and appellate mechanism for the 
resolution of international investment disputes. Upon the establishment of such a 
multilateral mechanism, the Committee shall consider adopting a decision to provide that 
investment disputes under this Section are to be resolved through that multilateral 
mechanism, and to make appropriate transitional arrangements. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.13 
 
Applicable Law and Rules of Interpretation 
 
1. 
The Tribunal shall decide whether the treatment that is the subject of the claim is in 
breach of an obligation under Chapter Two (Investment Protection). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 24 
 
2. 
Subject to paragraph 3, the Tribunal shall apply this Agreement interpreted in 
accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties and other rules and 
principles of international law applicable between the Parties.7 
 
3. 
Where serious concerns arise as regards issues of interpretation which may affect 
matters relating to this Agreement, the Committee, pursuant to subparagraph 4(f) of 
Article 4.1 (Committee), may adopt interpretations of provisions of this Agreement. An 
interpretation adopted by the Committee shall be binding on the Tribunal and the Appeal 
Tribunal and any award shall be consistent with that decision. The Committee may decide 
that an interpretation shall have binding effect from a specific date. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.14 
 
Claims Manifestly Without Legal Merit 
 
1. 
The respondent may file an objection that a claim is manifestly without legal merit 
no later than 30 days after the constitution of a division of the Tribunal pursuant to Article 
3.9 (Tribunal of First Instance) and in any event before the first session of the division of the 
Tribunal. 
 
                                                           
7 
For greater certainty, the domestic law of the Parties shall not be part of the applicable law. Where 
the Tribunal is required to ascertain the meaning of a provision of the domestic law of one of the Parties as a 
matter of fact, it shall follow the prevailing interpretation of that provision made by the courts or authorities of 
that Party, and any meaning given to the relevant domestic law made by the Tribunal shall not be binding 
upon the courts or the authorities of either Party. The Tribunal shall not have jurisdiction to determine the 
legality of a measure, alleged to constitute a breach of this Agreement, under the domestic law of the 
disputing Party. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 25 
 
2. 
The respondent shall specify as precisely as possible the basis for the objection. 
 
3. 
The Tribunal, after giving the disputing parties an opportunity to present their 
observations on the objection, shall issue a decision or provisional award on the objection at 
the first session of the division of the Tribunal or promptly thereafter. 
 
4. 
This procedure and any decision of the Tribunal shall be without prejudice to the 
right of a respondent to object, pursuant to Article 3.15 (Claims Unfounded as a Matter of 
Law) or in the course of the proceedings, to the legal merits of a claim and without prejudice 
to the Tribunal's authority to address other objections as a preliminary question. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.15 
 
Claims Unfounded as a Matter of Law 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the Tribunal's authority to address other objections as a 
preliminary question or to a respondent's right to raise any such objections at any 
appropriate time, the Tribunal shall address and decide as a preliminary question any 
objection by the respondent that, as a matter of law, a claim submitted pursuant to Article 
3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal), or any part thereof, is not a claim for which an 
award in favour of the claimant may be made under this Section, even if the facts alleged 
were assumed to be true. The Tribunal may also consider any other relevant facts that are 
not in dispute. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 26 
 
2. 
An objection under paragraph 1 shall be submitted to the Tribunal as soon as 
possible after the division of the Tribunal is constituted, and in no event later than the date 
the Tribunal fixes for the respondent to submit its counter-memorial or statement of 
defence or, in the case of an amendment to the claim, the date the Tribunal fixes for the 
respondent to submit its response to the amendment. An objection may not be submitted 
under paragraph 1 as long as proceedings under Article 3.14 (Claims Manifestly without 
Legal Merit) are pending, unless the Tribunal grants leave to file an objection under this 
Article, after having taken due account of the circumstances of the case. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of an objection under paragraph 1, and unless it considers the 
objection manifestly unfounded, the Tribunal shall suspend any proceedings on the merits, 
shall establish a schedule for considering the objection consistent with any schedule it has 
established for considering any other preliminary question, and shall issue a decision or 
provisional award on the objection, stating the grounds for its decision or provisional award. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.16 
 
Transparency of Proceedings 
 
Annex 8 (Rules on Public Access to Documents, Hearings and the Possibility of Third Persons 
to Make Submissions) applies to disputes under this Section. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 27 
 
ARTICLE 3.17 
 
The Non-disputing Party to the Agreement 
 
1. 
The Tribunal shall accept or, after consultation with the disputing parties, may invite, 
oral or written submissions on issues of treaty interpretation from the non-disputing Party. 
 
2. 
The Tribunal shall not draw any inference from the absence of any submission or 
response to any invitation pursuant to paragraph 1. 
 
3. 
The Tribunal shall ensure that any submission does not disrupt or unduly burden the 
proceedings, or unfairly prejudice any disputing party. 
 
4. 
The Tribunal shall also ensure that the disputing parties are given a reasonable 
opportunity to present their observations on any submission by the non-disputing Party. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 28 
 
ARTICLE 3.18 
 
Awards 
 
1. 
Where the Tribunal decides that the treatment in dispute is in breach of an 
obligation under Chapter Two (Investment Protection), the Tribunal may award, separately 
or in combination, only:8 
 
(a) 
monetary damages and any applicable interest; and 
 
(b) 
the restitution of property, provided that the respondent may pay monetary damages 
and any applicable interest, as determined by the Tribunal in accordance with Chapter 
Two (Investment Protection), in lieu of restitution. 
 
2. 
Monetary damages shall not be greater than the amount of the loss suffered by the 
claimant or its locally established company, as applicable, as a result of the breach of the 
relevant provisions of Chapter Two (Investment Protection), less any prior damages or 
compensation already provided by the Party concerned. The Tribunal shall not award 
punitive damages. 
 
3. 
Where a claim is submitted on behalf of a locally established company, the award 
shall be made to the locally established company. 
 
                                                           
8 
For greater certainty, an award shall be made on the basis of a request from the claimant and shall be 
made after considering any comments of the disputing parties. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 29 
 
4. 
As a general rule, the Tribunal shall issue a provisional award within 18 months of 
the date of submission of the claim. Where the Tribunal considers that it cannot issue its 
provisional award within 18 months, it shall inform the disputing parties in writing of the 
reasons for the delay, together with an estimate of the period within which it will issue its 
provisional award. A provisional award shall become final 90 days after it has been issued if 
neither disputing party has appealed the award to the Appeal Tribunal. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.19 
 
Appeal Procedure 
 
1. 
Either disputing party may appeal a provisional award before the Appeal Tribunal 
within 90 days of its issuance. The grounds for appeal are: 
 
(a) 
that the Tribunal has erred in the interpretation or application of the applicable law; 
 
(b) 
that the Tribunal has manifestly erred in the appreciation of the facts, including the 
appreciation of relevant domestic law; or, 
 
(c) 
those provided for in Article 52 of the ICSID Convention, insofar as they are not 
covered by (a) and (b). 
 
2. 
If the Appeal Tribunal dismisses the appeal, the provisional award shall become final. 
The Appeal Tribunal may also dismiss the appeal on an expedited basis where it is clear that 
the appeal is manifestly unfounded, in which case the provisional award shall become final. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 30 
 
3 
If the Appeal Tribunal upholds the appeal, it shall modify or reverse the legal findings 
and conclusions in the provisional award in whole or in part. The Appeal Tribunal shall refer 
the matter back to the Tribunal, specifying precisely how it has modified or reversed the 
relevant findings and conclusions of the Tribunal. The Tribunal shall be bound by the 
findings and conclusions of the Appeal Tribunal and, after hearing the disputing parties, if 
appropriate, shall revise its provisional award accordingly. The Tribunal shall seek to issue its 
revised award within 90 days of the referral of the matter back to it. 
 
4. 
As a general rule, the appeal proceedings shall not exceed 180 days, calculated from 
the date on which a disputing party formally notifies its decision to appeal to the date on 
which the Appeal Tribunal issues its decision. Where the Appeal Tribunal considers that it 
cannot issue its decision within 180 days, it shall inform the disputing parties in writing of 
the reasons for the delay, together with an estimate of the period within which it will issue 
its decision. In no case should the proceedings exceed 270 days. 
 
5. 
A disputing party lodging an appeal shall provide security for the costs of appeal. The 
disputing party shall also provide any other security as may be ordered by the Appeal 
Tribunal. 
 
6. 
The provisions of Articles 3.8 (Third-Party Funding), Annex 8 (Rules on Public Access 
to Documents, Hearings and the Possibility of Third Persons to Make Submissions), 
3.17 (The Non-disputing Party to the Agreement) and Article 3.21 (Costs) shall apply 
mutatis mutandis in respect of the appeal procedure. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 31 
 
ARTICLE 3.20 
 
Indemnification or Other Compensation 
 
The respondent may not assert, and the Tribunal shall not accept, as a defence, 
counterclaim, right of set-off, or for any other reason, that the claimant has received or will 
receive indemnification or other compensation pursuant to an insurance or guarantee 
contract, for all or part of the damages sought in a dispute initiated under this Section. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.21 
 
Costs 
 
1. 
The Tribunal shall order that the costs of the proceedings are to be borne by the 
unsuccessful disputing party. In exceptional circumstances, the Tribunal may apportion 
costs between the disputing parties if it determines that apportionment is appropriate in 
the circumstances of the case. 
 
2. 
Other reasonable costs, including costs of legal representation and assistance, shall 
be borne by the unsuccessful party, unless the Tribunal determines that such 
apportionment of costs is not appropriate in the circumstances of the case. 
 
3. 
Where only some parts of the claims have been successful, the costs awarded shall 
be adjusted, proportionately, to the number or extent of the successful parts of the claims. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 32 
 
4. 
Where a claim or parts of a claim are dismissed on application of Article 3.14 (Claims 
Manifestly without Legal Merits) or Article 3.15 (Claims Unfounded as a Matter of Law), the 
Tribunal shall order that all costs relating to such a claim or to parts thereof, including the 
costs of the proceedings and other reasonable costs, including costs of legal representation 
and assistance, shall be borne by the unsuccessful disputing party. 
 
5. 
The Committee shall consider adopting supplemental rules on fees for the purpose 
of determining the maximum amount of the costs of legal representation and assistance 
that may be borne by specific categories of unsuccessful disputing parties. Such 
supplemental rules shall take into account the financial resources of a claimant which is a 
natural person or a small or medium-sized enterprise. The Committee shall endeavour to 
adopt such supplemental rules no later one year after the entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.22 
 
Enforcement of Awards 
 
1. 
An award rendered pursuant to this section shall not be enforceable until it has 
become final pursuant to Articles 3.18(4) (Award), 3.19(2) (Appeal Procedure), or 3.19(3) 
(Appeal Procedure). Final awards issued pursuant to this Section by the Tribunal shall be 
binding between the disputing parties and shall not be set aside, subject to appeal, review, 
annulment or any other remedy.9 
 
                                                           
9 
For greater certainty, this does not prevent a disputing party from requesting the Tribunal to revise, 
correct, or interpret an award, such as pursuant to Articles 50 and 51 ICSID Convention or Articles 37 and 38 of 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, or equivalent provisions of other rules, as applicable to the proceedings in 
question. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 33 
 
2. 
Each Party shall recognise an award rendered pursuant to this Agreement as binding 
and enforce the pecuniary obligation within its territory as if it were a final judgement of a 
court in that Party. 
 
3. 
The execution of the award shall be governed by the laws concerning the execution 
of judgments or awards in force where such execution is sought. 
 
4. 
For greater certainty, Article 4.11 (No Direct Effect) of Chapter Four (Institutional, 
General and Final Provisions) shall not prevent the recognition, execution or enforcement of 
awards rendered pursuant to this Section. 
 
5. 
For the purposes of Article I of the New York Convention, final awards issued 
pursuant to this Section are arbitral awards relating to claims that are considered to arise 
out of a commercial relationship or transaction. 
 
6. 
For greater certainty, and subject to paragraph 1, where a claim has been submitted 
to dispute settlement pursuant to Article 3.6(1)(a) (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal), a 
final award issued pursuant to this Section shall qualify as an award under Section 6 of 
Chapter IV of the ICSID Convention. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 34 
 
ARTICLE 3.23 
 
Role of the Parties to the Agreement 
 
1. 
Neither Party shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an international claim, in 
respect of a dispute which one of its investors and the other Party have consented to 
submit, or have submitted, to dispute settlement under this Section, unless such other Party 
has failed to abide by and comply with the award rendered in that dispute. "Diplomatic 
protection", for the purposes of this paragraph, does not include informal diplomatic 
exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a settlement of the dispute. 
 
2. 
For greater certainty, paragraph 1 shall not exclude the possibility of a Party having 
recourse to dispute settlement procedures under Section B (Resolution of Disputes between 
Parties) of Chapter Three (Dispute Settlement) in respect of a measure of general 
application, even if that measure is alleged to have breached the Agreement as regards a 
specific investment in respect of which a claim has been submitted pursuant to Article 3.6 
(Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) and is without prejudice to Article 3.17 (The Non-
disputing Party to the Agreement). 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 35 
 
ARTICLE 3.24 
 
Consolidation 
 
1. 
Where two or more claims that have been submitted separately under Article 3.6 
(Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) have a question of law or fact in common and arise 
out of the same events or circumstances, a disputing party may seek the establishment of a 
separate division of the Tribunal ("consolidating division") and request that such division 
issue a consolidation order in accordance with: 
 
(a) 
the agreement of all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the order, in which 
case the disputing parties shall submit a joint request in accordance with paragraph 3; 
or 
 
(b) 
paragraphs 2 to 12, provided that only one respondent is sought to be covered by the 
order. 
 
2. 
A disputing party seeking a consolidation order shall first deliver a notice to the 
other disputing parties sought to be covered by the order. This notice shall specify: 
 
(a) 
the names and addresses of all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the 
order; 
 
(b) 
the claims, or parts thereof, sought to be covered by the order; and 
 
(c) 
the grounds for the order sought. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 36 
 
The disputing parties shall endeavour to agree on the consolidation order sought and on the 
applicable dispute settlement rules. 
 
3. 
Where the disputing parties referred to in paragraph 2 have not reached an 
agreement on consolidation within 30 days of the notice, a disputing party may request a 
consolidation order under paragraphs 3 through 7. The request shall be in writing and shall 
be delivered to the President of the Tribunal and all the disputing parties sought to be 
covered by the order. Such a request shall specify: 
 
(a) 
the names and addresses of all the disputing parties sought to be covered by the 
order; 
 
(b) 
the claims, or parts thereof, sought to be covered by the order; and 
 
(c) 
the grounds for the order sought. 
 
Where the disputing parties have reached an agreement on consolidation of the claims, 
they shall submit a joint request to the President of the Tribunal in accordance with this 
paragraph. 
 
4. 
Unless the President of the Tribunal finds within 30 days of receiving a request under 
paragraph 3 that the request is manifestly unfounded, a consolidating division of the 
Tribunal shall be established in accordance with Article 3.9(8) (Tribunal of First Instance). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 37 
 
5. 
The consolidating division of the Tribunal shall conduct its proceedings in the 
following manner: 
 
(a) 
unless all disputing parties otherwise agree, where all the claims for which a 
consolidation order is sought have been submitted under the same dispute settlement 
rules, the consolidating division shall proceed under the same dispute settlement 
rules; 
 
(b) 
where the claims for which a consolidation order is sought have not been submitted 
under the same dispute settlement rules: 
 
(i) 
the disputing parties may agree on the dispute settlement rules available under 
Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) which shall apply to the 
consolidation proceedings; or 
 
(ii) 
if the disputing parties cannot agree on the same dispute settlement rules within 
30 days of the request made pursuant to paragraph 3, the UNCITRAL arbitration 
rules shall apply to the consolidation proceedings. 
 
6. 
Where the consolidating division is satisfied that two or more claims that have been 
submitted under Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) have a question of law or 
fact in common and arise out of the same events or circumstances, the consolidating 
division may, in the interest of fair and efficient resolution of the claims, including the 
consistency of awards, and after hearing the disputing parties, by order: 
 
(a) 
assume jurisdiction over, and may hear and determine together, all or part of the 
claims; or 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 38 
 
(b) 
assume jurisdiction over, and hear and determine, one or more of the claims, the 
determination of which it believes would assist in the resolution of the others. 
 
7. 
Where a consolidating division has been established, a claimant that has submitted a 
claim under Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the Tribunal) and that has not been named 
in a request made under paragraph 3 may make a written request to the consolidating 
division that it be included in any order made under paragraph 6. Such request shall comply 
with the requirements set out in paragraph 3. 
 
8. 
On application by a disputing party, the consolidating division, pending its decision 
under paragraph 6, may order that the proceedings of a division established under Article 
3.9 (Tribunal of First Instance) be stayed, unless the latter division has already adjourned its 
proceedings. 
 
9. 
A division of the Tribunal established under Article 3.9 (Tribunal of First Instance) 
shall cease to have jurisdiction to decide a claim, or parts of a claim, over which a 
consolidating division has assumed jurisdiction, and the proceedings of a division 
established under Article 3.9 (Tribunal of First Instance) shall be stayed or adjourned 
accordingly. 
 
10. 
The award of the consolidating division in relation to claims, or parts of claims, over 
which it has assumed jurisdiction, shall be binding on the divisions established under Article 
3.9 (Tribunal of First Instance) in respect of these claims, as of the date on which the award 
becomes final pursuant to Articles 3.18(4) (Award), 3.19(2) (Appeal Procedure), or 3.19(3) 
(Appeal Procedure). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 39 
 
11. 
A claimant may withdraw its claim, or part thereof that is subject to consolidation, 
from dispute settlement proceedings under this Article, provided that such claim or part 
thereof may not thereafter be resubmitted under Article 3.6 (Submission of Claims to the 
Tribunal). 
 
12. 
At the request of one of the disputing parties, the consolidating division may take 
such measures as it sees fit in order to preserve the confidentiality of protected information 
of that disputing party vis--vis other disputing parties. Such measures may include allowing 
the submission of redacted versions of documents that contain protected information to the 
other disputing parties, or arrangements to hold parts of the hearing in private. 
 
 
SECTION B 
 
RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES BETWEEN PARTIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.25 
 
Scope 
 
This Section applies to any dispute between the Parties concerning the interpretation and 
application of the provisions of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 40 
 
ARTICLE 3.26 
 
Consultations 
 
1. 
The Parties shall endeavour to resolve any dispute concerning the interpretation and 
application of the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope) by entering into 
consultations in good faith with the aim of reaching a mutually agreed solution. 
 
2. 
A Party shall seek consultations by means of a written request to the other Party, 
copied to the Committee, which shall give the reasons for requesting consultations, 
including the identification of the measures at issue, of the applicable provisions referred to 
in Article 3.25 (Scope), and the reasons for considering the measures as incompatible with 
such provisions. 
 
3. 
Consultations shall be held within 30 days of the date of receipt of the request and, 
unless the Parties agree otherwise, shall take place on the territory of the Party complained 
against. The consultations shall be deemed to be concluded within 60 days of the date of 
receipt of the request, unless the Parties agree otherwise. Consultations shall be 
confidential, and shall be without prejudice to the rights of either Party in any further 
proceedings. 
 
4. 
Consultations on matters of urgency shall be held within 15 days of the date of 
receipt of the request, and shall be deemed to be concluded within 30 days of the date of 
receipt of the request, unless the Parties agree otherwise. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 41 
 
5. 
If the Party to which the request is made does not respond to the request for 
consultations within ten days of the date of its receipt, or if consultations are not held 
within the timeframes laid down in paragraph 3 or in paragraph 4 respectively, or if 
consultations have been concluded and no mutually agreed solution has been reached, the 
complaining Party may request the establishment of an arbitration panel in accordance with 
Article 3.28 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure). 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.27 
 
Mediation 
 
Any Party may request the other Party to enter into a mediation procedure pursuant to 
Annex 10 (Mediation Procedure for Disputes between Parties) with respect to any measure 
adversely affecting investment between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.28 
 
Initiation of Arbitration Procedure 
 
1. 
Where the Parties have failed to resolve a dispute by recourse to consultations as 
provided for in Article 3.26 (Consultations), the complaining Party may request the 
establishment of an arbitration panel in accordance with this Article. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 42 
 
2. 
The request for the establishment of an arbitration panel shall be made in writing to 
the Party complained against and to the Committee. The complaining Party shall identify in 
its request the specific measure at issue, and it shall explain how such measure could 
constitute a breach of the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope) in a manner 
sufficient to clearly present the legal basis for the complaint. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.29 
 
Establishment of the Arbitration Panel 
 
1. 
An arbitration panel shall be composed of three arbitrators. 
 
2. 
Within five days of the date of receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Article 3.28 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure) by the Party complained against, the Parties 
shall enter into consultations in order to agree on the composition of the arbitration panel. 
 
3. 
In the event that the Parties are unable to agree on the choice of chairperson of the 
arbitration panel within ten days of entering into the consultations referred to in paragraph 
2, within 20 days of entering into consultations referred to in paragraph 2, the chairperson 
of the Committee or the chairperson's delegate, shall select one arbitrator who will serve as 
a chairperson by lot from the list referred to under paragraph 1 of Article 3.44 (Lists of 
Arbitrators). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 43 
 
4. 
In the event that the Parties are unable to agree on the arbitrators within ten days of 
entering into the consultations referred to in paragraph 2: 
 
(a) 
each Party may select one arbitrator, who will not act as a chairperson, from the 
individuals on the list established under paragraph 2 of Article 3.44 (Lists of 
Arbitrators), within 15 days of entering into the consultations referred to in paragraph 
2; and 
 
(b) 
if either Party fails to select an arbitrator under subparagraph 4(a), the chairperson of 
the Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select any remaining arbitrator by 
lot from among the individuals proposed by that Party pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Article 3.44 (Lists of Arbitrators), within 20 days of entering into consultations referred 
to in paragraph 2. 
 
5. 
Should the list provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 3.44 (Lists of Arbitrators) not be 
established at the time required for the purposes of paragraph 4: 
 
(a) 
where both Parties have proposed individuals pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 3.44 
(Lists of Arbitrators), each Party may select one arbitrator, who will not act as a 
chairperson, from among the individuals proposed, within 15 days of entering into the 
consultations referred to in paragraph 2. If a Party fails to select an arbitrator, the 
chairperson of the Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select the arbitrator 
by lot from among the individuals proposed by the Party which failed to select its 
arbitrator; or 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 44 
 
(b) 
where only one Party has proposed individuals pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 3.44 
(Lists of Arbitrators), each Party may select one arbitrator, who will not act as a 
chairperson, from among the individuals proposed, within 15 days of entering into the 
consultations referred to in paragraph 2. If a Party fails to select an arbitrator, the 
chairperson of the Committee or the chairperson's delegate shall select the arbitrator 
by lot from among the individuals proposed. 
 
6. 
Should the list provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 3.44 (Lists of Arbitrators) not be 
established at the time required for the purposes of paragraph 3, the chairperson shall be 
selected by lot from among former Members of the WTO Appellate Body, none of whom 
shall be natural persons of a Party. 
 
7. 
The date of establishment of the arbitration panel shall be the date on which the last 
of the three arbitrators is selected. 
 
8. 
The replacement of arbitrators shall take place only for the reasons detailed in Rules 
18 to 24 of Annex 9 (Rules of Procedure for Arbitration) and in accordance with the 
procedures thereunder. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.30 
 
Preliminary Ruling on Urgency 
 
If a Party so requests, the arbitration panel shall give a preliminary ruling within ten days of 
its establishment on whether it deems the case to be urgent. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 45 
 
ARTICLE 3.31 
 
Interim Panel Report 
 
1. 
The arbitration panel shall issue an interim report to the Parties setting out the 
findings of fact, the applicability of relevant provisions of this Agreement, and the essential 
reasons for findings and recommendations, not later than 90 days from the date of 
establishment of the arbitration panel. Where the arbitration panel considers that this 
deadline cannot be met, the chairperson of the arbitration panel shall notify the Parties and 
the Committee in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the date on which the 
arbitration panel plans to issue its interim report. Under no circumstances should the 
arbitration panel issue its interim report later than 120 days after the date of its 
establishment. 
 
2. 
Any Party may submit a written request for the arbitration panel to review specific 
aspects of the interim report within 30 days of its notification. 
 
3. 
In cases of urgency, the arbitration panel shall make every effort to issue its interim 
report within half of the period allowed under paragraph 1, and any Party may submit a 
written request for the arbitration panel to review specific aspects of the interim report 
within 15 days of its notification. 
 
4. 
After considering any written comments by the Parties on the interim report, the 
arbitration panel may modify its report and make any further examination it considers 
appropriate. The findings of the final ruling of the arbitration panel shall include a sufficient 
discussion of the arguments made at the interim review stage, and shall clearly address the 
written comments of the two Parties. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 46 
 
ARTICLE 3.32 
 
Arbitration Panel Ruling 
 
1. 
The arbitration panel shall issue its ruling to the Parties and to the Committee 
within 150 days of the date of the establishment of the arbitration panel. Where it considers 
that this deadline cannot be met, the chairperson of the arbitration panel shall notify the 
Parties and the Committee in writing, stating the reasons for the delay and the date on 
which the arbitration panel plans to issue its ruling. Under no circumstances should the 
arbitration panel issue its ruling later than 180 days after the date of its establishment. 
 
2. 
In cases of urgency, the arbitration panel shall make every effort to issue its ruling 
within 75 days of the date of its establishment. Under no circumstances should the 
arbitration panel issue its ruling later than 90 days after the date of its establishment. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.33 
 
Compliance with the Arbitration Panel Ruling 
 
Each Party shall take any measure necessary to comply in good faith with the ruling of the 
arbitration panel, and the Parties shall endeavour to agree on the period of time to comply 
with the ruling. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 47 
 
ARTICLE 3.34 
 
Reasonable Period of Time for Compliance 
 
1. 
No later than 30 days after the receipt of the notification of the ruling of the 
arbitration panel to the Parties, the Party against which the complaint was made shall notify 
the complaining Party and the Committee of the time it will require to comply with the 
ruling of the arbitration panel (hereinafter referred to as "reasonable period of time"), if 
immediate compliance is not possible. 
 
2. 
If there is disagreement between the Parties on the reasonable period of time for 
compliance with the ruling of the arbitration panel, within 20 days of the receipt of the 
notification made under paragraph 1 by the Party complained against, the complaining 
Party shall request in writing that the original arbitration panel determine the reasonable 
period of time. Such request shall be notified simultaneously to the other Party and to the 
Committee. The original arbitration panel shall issue its ruling to the Parties, and shall notify 
the Committee thereof, within 20 days of the date of the submission of the request. 
 
3. 
In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures set out in Article 3.29 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. 
The time limit for issuing the ruling shall be 35 days from the date of the submission of the 
request referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
4. 
The Party against which the complaint was made shall inform the complaining Party 
in writing of its progress in complying with the ruling of the arbitration panel at least one 
month before the expiry of the reasonable period of time. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 48 
 
5. 
The reasonable period of time may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.35 
 
Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply with the Arbitration Panel Ruling 
 
1. 
The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party and the Committee, 
before the end of the reasonable period of time, of any measures that it has taken to 
comply with the ruling of the arbitration panel. 
 
2. 
In the event that there is disagreement between the Parties concerning the 
existence of any measures notified under paragraph 1 or the consistency of such measures 
with the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope), the complaining Party may request in 
writing that the original arbitration panel rule on the matter. Such request shall identify the 
specific measure at issue and the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope) with which it 
considers that measure to be inconsistent, in a manner sufficient to present the legal basis 
for the complaint clearly. Such request shall also explain how the measure in question is 
inconsistent with the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope). The original arbitration 
panel shall notify its ruling within 45 days of the date of the submission of the request. 
 
3. 
In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures set out in Article 3.29 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. 
The time limit for issuing the ruling shall be 60 days from the date of the submission of the 
request referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 49 
 
ARTICLE 3.36 
 
Temporary Remedies in Case of Non-compliance 
 
1. 
If the Party complained against fails to notify any measure taken to comply with the 
ruling of the arbitration panel before the expiry of the reasonable period of time, or if the 
arbitration panel rules that no such measures were taken or that the measure notified 
under paragraph 1 of Article 3.35 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply with the 
Arbitration Panel Ruling) is inconsistent with that Party's obligations under the provisions 
referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope), the Party against which the complaint was made shall 
enter into negotiations with the complaining Party with a view to reaching a mutually 
acceptable agreement on compensation. 
 
2. 
If no agreement on compensation is reached within 30 days of the end of the 
reasonable period of time, or within 30 days of the issuance of the ruling of the arbitration 
panel under Article 3.35 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply with the Arbitration 
Panel Ruling) that no measures were taken to comply with the ruling of the arbitration panel 
or that a measure taken to comply with that ruling is inconsistent with the provisions 
referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope), the complaining Party shall be entitled, upon notification 
to the other Party and to the Committee, to take appropriate measures at a level equivalent 
to the nullification or impairment caused by the violation. The notification shall specify the 
measures to be taken. The complaining Party may take such measures at any moment after 
the expiry of ten days after the date of receipt of the notification by the Party complained 
against, unless the Party complained against has requested arbitration under paragraph 3. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 50 
 
3. 
If the Party complained against considers that the measures taken by the 
complaining Party are not equivalent to the nullification or impairment caused by the 
violation, it may request in writing that the original arbitration panel rule on the matter. 
Such request shall be notified to the complaining Party and to the Committee before the 
expiry of the ten-day period referred to in paragraph 2. The original arbitration panel, 
having sought the opinion of experts, if appropriate, shall notify its ruling on the level of the 
suspension of obligations to the Parties and to the Committee within 30 days of the date of 
the submission of the request. Measures shall not be taken until the original arbitration 
panel has notified its ruling, and any measure shall be consistent with the ruling of the 
arbitration panel. 
 
4. 
In the event that any member of the original arbitration panel is no longer available, 
the procedures laid down in Article 3.29 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel) shall apply. 
The period for issuing the ruling shall be 45 days from the date of the submission of the 
request referred to in paragraph 3. 
 
5. 
The measures provided for in this Article shall be temporary and shall not be applied 
after: 
 
(a) 
the Parties have reached a mutually agreed solution pursuant to Article 3.39 (Mutually 
Agreed Solution); or 
 
(b) 
the Parties have reached an agreement on whether the measure notified under 
paragraph 1 of Article 3.37 (Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply After the 
Adoption of Temporary Remedies for Non-Compliance) brings the Party complained 
against into conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope); or 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 51 
 
(c) 
any measure found to be inconsistent with the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 
(Scope) has been withdrawn or amended so as to bring it into conformity with those 
provisions, as ruled under paragraph 2 of Article 3.37 (Review of Any Measure Taken 
to Comply After the Adoption of Temporary Remedies for Non-Compliance). 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.37 
 
Review of Any Measure Taken to Comply  
After the Adoption of Temporary Remedies for Non-Compliance 
 
1. 
The Party complained against shall notify the complaining Party and the Committee 
of any measure it has taken to comply with the ruling of the arbitration panel and of its 
request for the termination of the measures applied by the complaining Party. 
 
2. 
If the Parties do not reach an agreement on whether the notified measure brings the 
Party complained against into conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 
(Scope) within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notification, the complaining Party shall 
request in writing that the original arbitration panel rule on the matter. Such request shall 
be notified simultaneously to the other Party and the Committee. The ruling of the 
arbitration panel shall be notified to the Parties and the Committee within 45 days of the 
date of the submission of the request. If the arbitration panel rules that any measure taken 
to comply is in conformity with the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope), the 
measures referred to in Article 3.36 (Temporary Remedies in Case of Non-compliance) shall 
be terminated. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 52 
 
ARTICLE 3.38 
 
Suspension and Termination of Arbitration Procedures 
 
1. 
The arbitration panel, at the written request of both Parties, shall suspend its work 
at any time for a period agreed by the Parties, which shall not exceed twelve months. The 
arbitration panel shall resume its work at the end of this agreed period at the written 
request of the complaining Party, or before the end of this agreed period at the written 
request of both Parties. If the complaining Party does not request the resumption of the 
arbitration panel's work before the expiry of the agreed period, the dispute settlement 
procedures initiated pursuant to this Section shall be deemed terminated. Subject to Article 
3.45 (Relation with WTO Obligations), the suspension and termination of the arbitration 
panel's work are without prejudice to the rights of either Party in other proceedings. 
 
2. 
At any time, the Parties may agree in writing to terminate the dispute settlement 
procedures initiated pursuant to this Section. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 53 
 
ARTICLE 3.39 
 
Mutually Agreed Solution 
 
The Parties may reach a mutually agreed solution to a dispute under this Section at any 
time. They shall notify the Committee and the arbitration panel, if any, of such solution. If 
the solution requires approval pursuant to the relevant domestic procedures of either Party, 
the notification shall refer to this requirement, and the dispute settlement procedure 
initiated pursuant to this Section shall be suspended. The procedure shall be terminated if 
such approval is not required or upon notification of the completion of any such domestic 
procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.40 
 
Rules of Procedure 
 
1. 
Dispute settlement procedures under this Section shall be governed by Annex 9 
(Rules of Procedure for Arbitration). 
 
2. 
Any meetings of the arbitration panel shall be open to the public in accordance with 
Annex 9 (Rules of Procedure for Arbitration). 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 54 
 
ARTICLE 3.41 
 
Submission of Information 
 
1. 
At the request of a Party, or upon its own initiative, the arbitration panel may obtain 
information from any source it deems appropriate for the arbitration panel proceedings, 
including from the Parties involved in the dispute. The arbitration panel also has the right to 
seek the relevant opinions of experts as it deems appropriate. The arbitration panel shall 
consult the Parties before choosing such experts. Any information obtained in this manner 
must be disclosed to the Parties and submitted for their comments. 
 
2. 
Interested natural and legal persons of the Parties are authorised to submit amicus 
curiae briefs to the arbitration panel in accordance with Annex 9 (Rules of Procedure for 
Arbitration). 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.42 
 
Rules of Interpretation 
 
The arbitration panel shall interpret the provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope) in 
accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law, including 
those codified in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. Where an obligation under 
this Agreement is identical to an obligation under the WTO Agreement, the arbitration panel 
shall take into account any relevant interpretation established in rulings of the WTO Dispute 
Settlement Body (hereinafter referred to as the "DSB"). The rulings of the arbitration panel 
cannot add to or diminish the rights and obligations provided in the provisions referred to in 
Article 3.25 (Scope). 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 55 
 
ARTICLE 3.43 
 
Arbitration Panel Decisions and Rulings 
 
1. 
The arbitration panel shall make every effort to take any decision by consensus. 
Where, nevertheless, a decision cannot be reached by consensus, the matter at issue shall 
be decided by majority vote. 
 
2. 
Any ruling of the arbitration panel shall be binding on the Parties and shall not create 
any rights or obligations to physical or legal persons. The ruling shall set out the findings of 
fact, the applicability of the relevant provisions referred to in Article 3.25 (Scope), and the 
rationale behind any findings and conclusions that it makes. The Committee shall make the 
ruling of the arbitration panel publicly available in its entirety, unless it decides not to do so 
in order to ensure the confidentiality of any information designated by either Party as 
confidential. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.44 
 
Lists of Arbitrators 
 
1. 
Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall establish a list of five 
individuals who are willing and able to serve as the chairperson of an arbitration panel 
referred to in Article 3.29 (Establishment of the Arbitration Panel). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 56 
 
2. 
No later than six months after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Committee 
shall establish a list of at least ten individuals who are willing and able to serve as 
arbitrators. Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, each Party shall propose at least 
five individuals to serve as arbitrators. 
 
3. 
The Committee shall ensure that the lists of individuals to serve as chairpersons or 
arbitrators, established pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 respectively, are maintained. 
 
4. 
Arbitrators shall have specialised knowledge of or experience in law and 
international trade or investment, or in the settlement of disputes arising under 
international trade agreements. They shall be independent, shall serve in their individual 
capacities, shall not be affiliated with the government of either Party, and shall comply with 
Annex 11 (Code of Conduct for Arbitrators and Mediators). 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.45 
 
Relation with WTO Obligations 
 
1. 
Recourse to the dispute settlement provisions of this Section shall be without 
prejudice to any action in the WTO framework, including dispute settlement proceedings. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 57 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, where a Party has initiated dispute settlement 
proceedings with regard to a particular measure, either under this Section or under the 
WTO Agreement, it shall not institute dispute settlement proceedings regarding the same 
measure in the other forum until the first proceedings have ended. Moreover, neither Party 
shall initiate dispute settlement proceedings under both this Section and under the WTO 
Agreement unless substantially different obligations under both agreements are in dispute, 
or unless the selected forum fails for procedural or jurisdictional reasons to make findings 
on the claim seeking redress in relation to that obligation, provided that the failure of the 
forum is not the result of a failure of a disputing Party to act diligently. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of paragraph 2: 
 
(a) 
dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO Agreement shall be deemed to be 
initiated by a Party's request for the establishment of a panel under Article 6 of the 
Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes 
contained in Annex 2 of the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "DSU") 
and shall be deemed to be ended when the DSB adopts the Panel's report, and the 
Appellate Body's report as the case may be, under Articles 16 and 17(14) of the DSU; 
and 
 
(b) 
dispute settlement proceedings under this Section shall be deemed to be initiated by a 
Party's request for the establishment of an arbitration panel under paragraph 1 of 
Article 3.28 (Initiation of Arbitration Procedure) and shall be deemed to be ended 
when the arbitration panel issues its ruling to the Parties and to the Committee under 
paragraph 2 of Article 3.32 (Arbitration Panel Ruling) or when the parties have 
reached a mutually agreed solution under Article 3.39 (Mutually Agreed Solution). 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 58 
 
4. 
Nothing in this Section shall preclude a Party from implementing the suspension of 
obligations authorised by the DSB. Neither the WTO Agreement nor the EUSFTA shall be 
invoked to preclude a Party from taking appropriate measures under Article 3.36 
(Temporary Remedies in Case of Non-compliance) of this Section. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3.46 
 
Time Limits 
 
1. 
All time limits laid down in this Section, including the limits for the arbitration panels 
to notify their rulings, shall be counted in calendar days, the first day being the day following 
the acts or facts to which they refer, unless otherwise specified. 
 
2. 
Any time limit referred to in this Section may be modified by mutual agreement of 
the Parties. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Chapter 3 - 59 
 
 
