ANNEX 7 
 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS OF THE TRIBUNAL,  
THE APPEAL TRIBUNAL AND MEDIATORS 
 
Definitions 
 
1.  In this Code of Conduct: 
 
"Member" means a Member of the Tribunal or a Member of the Appeal Tribunal 
established pursuant to Chapter Three (Dispute Settlement) Section A (Resolution of 
Disputes between Investors and Parties); 
 
"mediator" means a person who conducts mediation in accordance with Chapter 
Three (Dispute Settlement) Section A (Resolution of Disputes between Investors and 
Parties); 
 
"candidate" means an individual who is under consideration for selection as a 
Member; 
 
"assistant" means a person who, under the terms of appointment of a Member, 
conducts research or provides assistance to the Member; and 
 
"staff", in respect of a Member, means persons under the direction and control of the 
Member, other than assistants. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 1 
 Responsibilities to the process 
 
2.  Every candidate and Member shall avoid impropriety and the appearance of 
impropriety, shall be independent and impartial, shall avoid direct and indirect 
conflicts of interests, and shall observe high standards of conduct, so that the integrity 
and impartiality of the dispute settlement mechanism is preserved. Members shall not 
take instructions from any organisation or government with regard to matters before 
the Tribunal or the Appeal Tribunal. Former Members must comply with the 
obligations laid down in paragraphs 15 to 21 of this Code of Conduct. 
 
Disclosure obligations 
 
3.  Prior to his or her appointment as a Member, a candidate shall disclose to the Parties 
any past or present interest, relationship or matter that is likely to affect his or her 
independence or impartiality, or that might reasonably create an appearance of 
impropriety or bias. To this end, a candidate shall make all reasonable efforts to 
become aware of any such interests, relationships and matters. 
 
4.  A Member shall communicate matters concerning actual or potential violations of this 
Code of Conduct to the disputing parties and the non-disputing Party. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 2 
 5.  Members shall at all times continue to make all reasonable efforts to become aware 
of any interests, relationships or matters referred to in paragraph 3 of this Code of 
Conduct and shall disclose them. The disclosure obligation is a continuing duty which 
requires a Member to disclose any such interests, relationships or matters that may 
arise during any stage of the proceeding, at the earliest time the Member becomes 
aware of it. The Member shall disclose such interests, relationships and matters by 
informing the disputing parties and the non-disputing Party in writing, for their 
consideration. 
 
Duties of Members 
 
6.  A Member shall perform his or her duties thoroughly and expeditiously throughout 
the course of the proceeding and with fairness and diligence. 
 
7.  A Member shall consider only those issues that are raised in the proceeding and that 
are necessary for a ruling and shall not delegate this duty to any other person. 
 
8.  A Member shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that his or her assistants and staff 
are aware of, and comply with paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 19, 20 and 21 of this Code of 
Conduct. 
 
9.  A Member shall not engage in ex parte contacts concerning the proceeding. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 3 
 Independence and impartiality of Members 
 
10.  A Member shall be independent and impartial, shall avoid creating an appearance of 
bias or impropriety, and shall not be influenced by self-interest, outside pressure, 
political considerations, public clamour, loyalty to a disputing party or a non-disputing 
Party, or fear of criticism. 
 
11.  A Member shall not directly or indirectly incur any obligation or accept any benefit 
that would in any way interfere or appear to interfere, with the proper performance 
of his or her duties. 
 
12.  A Member may not use his or her position on the Tribunal to advance any personal or 
private interests, and shall avoid actions that may create the impression that others 
are in a special position to influence him or her. 
 
13.  A Member may not allow financial, business, professional, family or social 
relationships or responsibilities to influence his or her conduct or judgement. 
 
14.  A Member shall avoid entering into any relationship, or acquiring any financial 
interest, that is likely to affect his or her impartiality, or that might reasonably create 
an appearance of impropriety or bias. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 4 
 Obligations of former Members 
 
15.  All former Members must avoid actions that may create the appearance that they 
were biased in carrying out their duties or that they derived any advantage from the 
decision or ruling of the Tribunal or the Appeal Tribunal. 
 
16.  Without prejudice to Article 3.9(5) (Tribunal of First Instance) and Article 3.10(4) 
(Appeal Tribunal), Members shall undertake that, after the end of their term, they 
shall not become involved in any manner whatsoever: 
 
(a)  in investment disputes which were pending before the Tribunal or the Appeal 
Tribunal before the end of their term; 
 
(b)  in investment disputes directly and clearly connected with disputes, including 
concluded disputes, which they have dealt with as Members of the Tribunal or 
the Appeal Tribunal. 
 
17.  Members shall undertake that, for a period of three years after the end of their term, 
they shall not act as representatives of any of the disputing parties in investment 
disputes before the Tribunal or the Appeal Tribunal. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 5 
 18.  If the President of the Tribunal or the President of the Appeal Tribunal is informed or 
otherwise becomes aware that a former Member of the Tribunal or of the Appeal 
Tribunal, respectively, is alleged to have breached the obligations set out in 
paragraphs 15 to 17, the President shall examine the matter and provide an 
opportunity to the former Member to be heard. If, after verification, he finds that the 
alleged breach to be confirmed, he shall inform: 
 
(a)  the professional body or other such institution with which that former Member 
is affiliated; 
 
(b)  the Parties; and 
 
(c)  the president of any other relevant investment tribunal or appeal tribunal. 
 
The President of the Tribunal or the President of the Appeal Tribunal shall make public 
any findings pursuant to this paragraph. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
19.  No Member or former Member shall at any time disclose or use any non-public 
information concerning a proceeding or acquired during a proceeding, except for the 
purposes of that proceeding, and, in particular, shall not disclose or use any such 
information for personal advantage or an advantage for others or to affect the 
interest of others. 
 
20.  A Member shall not disclose a decision or award or parts thereof prior to its 
publication in accordance with Annex 8. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 6 
 21.  A Member or former Member shall not at any time disclose the deliberations of the 
Tribunal or Appeal Tribunal, or any Member's view regarding the deliberations. 
 
Expenses 
 
22.  Each Member shall keep a record and render a final account of the time devoted to 
the proceedings and of the expenses incurred. 
 
Mediators 
 
23.  The disciplines described in this Code of Conduct applying to Members or former 
Members shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to mediators. 
 
Consultative Committee 
 
24.  The President of the Tribunal and the President of the Appeal Tribunal shall each be 
assisted by a Consultative Committee, composed of the respective Vice-President and 
the most senior member by age of the Tribunal and the Appeal Tribunal respectively, 
for ensuring the proper application of this Code of Conduct, Article 3.11 (Ethics) and 
for the execution of any other task, where so provided. 
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 7 - 7 
 