EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 1 
 
ANNEX 6 
 
 
MEDIATION MECHANISM  
FOR DISPUTES BETWEEN INVESTORS AND PARTIES 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Objective 
 
The objective of the mediation mechanism is to facilitate the finding of a mutually agreed 
solution through a comprehensive and expeditious procedure with the assistance of a 
mediator. 
 
 
SECTION A 
 
PROCEDURE UNDER THE MEDIATION MECHANISM 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
Initiation of the Procedure 
 
1. 
At any time, the disputing party may request the initiation of a mediation procedure. 
Such request shall be addressed to the other party in writing. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 2 
 
2. 
The party to which such request is addressed shall give sympathetic consideration to 
the request and reply by accepting or rejecting it in writing within ten days of its 
receipt. 
 
3. 
Where the request relates to any treatment by an institution, body or agency of the 
Union or by any Member State of the Union, and no respondent has been determined 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 3.5 (Notice of Intent), the request shall be 
addressed to the Union. If the Union accepts the request, the response shall specify 
whether the Union or the Member State of the Union concerned will be a party to the 
mediation procedure.1 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Selection of the Mediator 
 
1. 
The disputing parties shall endeavour to agree on a mediator no later than 15 days 
after the receipt of the reply to the request referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 2 
(Initiation of the Procedure) of this Annex. Such agreement may include appointing a 
mediator from the Members of the Tribunal established according to Article 3.9 
(Tribunal of First Instance). 
 
                                                           
1 
For greater certainty, where the request concerns treatment by the Union, the party to the mediation 
shall be the Union and any Member State of the Union concerned shall be fully associated in the mediation. 
Where the request concerns exclusively treatment by a Member State of the Union, the party to the mediation 
shall be the Member State of the Union concerned, unless it requests the Union to be party. 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 3 
 
2. 
If the disputing parties cannot agree on the mediator pursuant to paragraph 1, either 
disputing party may request the President of the Tribunal to select the mediator by lot 
from the Members of the Tribunal established pursuant to Article 3.9 (Tribunal of First 
Instance). The President of the Tribunal shall select the mediator within ten working 
days of the request by either disputing party. 
 
3. 
The mediator shall not be a national of either Party, unless the disputing parties agree 
otherwise. 
 
4. 
The mediator shall assist the disputing parties, in an impartial and transparent 
manner, in bringing clarity to the measure and its possible adverse effects on 
investment, and in reaching a mutually agreed solution. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Rules of the Mediation Procedure 
 
1. 
Within ten days of the appointment of the mediator, the disputing party having 
invoked the mediation procedure shall present a detailed written description of the 
problem to the mediator and to the other disputing party, describing in particular the 
operation of the measure at issue and its adverse effects on investment. Within 20 
days of the date of delivery of that submission, the other disputing party may provide 
its written comments on the description of the problem. Either disputing party may 
include any information that it deems relevant in its description of the problem or its 
comments thereon. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 4 
 
2. 
The mediator may decide on the most appropriate way of bringing clarity to the 
measure concerned and its possible adverse effects on investment. In particular, the 
mediator may organise meetings between the disputing parties, may consult the 
disputing parties jointly or individually, may seek the assistance of or consult with 
relevant experts and stakeholders, and may provide any additional support requested 
by the disputing parties. However, before seeking the assistance of or consulting with 
relevant experts and stakeholders, the mediator shall consult with the disputing 
parties. 
 
3. 
The mediator may offer advice and may propose a solution for the consideration of 
the disputing parties, who may accept or reject the proposed solution or may agree on 
a different solution. However, the mediator shall not advise or give comments on 
whether the measure at issue is consistent with Chapter Two (Investment Protection). 
 
4. 
The mediation procedure shall take place in the territory of the disputing party to 
which the request was addressed, or by mutual agreement, at any other location or by 
any other means. 
 
5. 
The disputing parties shall endeavour to reach a mutually agreed solution within 60 
days of the appointment of the mediator. Pending a final agreement, the disputing 
parties may consider possible interim solutions. 
 
6. 
Mutually agreed solutions shall be made publicly available. However, the version 
disclosed to the public may not contain any information that a disputing party has 
designated as confidential. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 5 
 
7. 
The mediation procedure shall be terminated: 
 
(a) 
by the adoption of a mutually agreed solution by the disputing parties, in which 
case the mediation procedure shall terminate on the date of adoption; 
 
(b) 
by the mutual agreement of the disputing parties at any stage of the mediation 
procedure, in which case the mediation procedure shall terminate on the date of 
that agreement; 
 
(c) 
by the written declaration of the mediator, after having consulted with the 
disputing parties, that further efforts at mediation would be to no avail, in which 
case the mediation procedure shall terminate on the date of such declaration; or 
 
(d) 
by the written declaration of either disputing party after having explored 
mutually agreed solutions under the mediation procedure and after having 
considered any advice and proposed solutions by the mediator, in which case 
the mediation procedure shall terminate on the date of that declaration. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 6 
 
SECTION B 
 
IMPLEMENTATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
Implementation of a Mutually Agreed Solution 
 
1. 
Where the disputing parties have agreed to a solution, each disputing party shall take 
the measures necessary to implement the mutually agreed solution within the agreed 
timeframe. 
 
2. 
The implementing disputing party shall inform the other disputing party in writing of 
any steps or measures taken to implement the mutually agreed solution. 
 
3. 
At the request of the disputing parties, the mediator shall issue to the disputing 
parties a draft written factual report, which shall provide a brief summary of: (i) the 
measure at issue in these proceedings; (ii) the procedures followed; and (iii) any 
mutually agreed solution reached as the final outcome of these proceedings, including 
possible interim solutions. The mediator shall provide the disputing parties 15 days to 
comment on the draft report. After considering the comments of the disputing parties 
submitted within that period, the mediator shall submit a final written factual report 
to the disputing parties within 15 days. The final written factual report shall not 
include any interpretation of this Agreement. 
 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 7 
 
SECTION C 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
Relationship to Dispute Settlement 
 
1. 
The mediation procedure is not intended to serve as a basis for dispute settlement 
procedures under this Agreement or any other agreement. A disputing party shall not 
rely on or introduce as evidence in such dispute settlement procedures, nor shall any 
adjudicatory body, tribunal or panel take into consideration: 
 
(a) 
positions taken by a disputing party in the course of the mediation procedure; 
 
(b) 
the fact that a disputing party has indicated its willingness to accept a solution to 
the measure subject to mediation; or 
 
(c) 
advice given or proposals made by the mediator. 
 
2. 
The mediation mechanism is without prejudice to the legal positions of the Parties and 
the disputing parties under Chapter Three (Dispute Settlement) Section A (Resolution 
of Disputes between Investors and Parties) or Section B (Resolution of Disputes 
between Parties). 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 8 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 6 of Article 4 (Rules of the Mediation Procedure) of 
this Annex, and unless the disputing parties agree otherwise, all steps of the 
mediation procedure, including any advice that may be given or solution that may be 
proposed, are confidential. However, either disputing party may disclose to the public 
the fact that mediation is taking place. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
Time Limits 
 
Any time limit referred to in this Annex may be modified by mutual agreement between the 
disputing parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
Costs 
 
1. 
Each disputing party shall bear its own expenses arising from the participation in the 
mediation procedure. 
 
EUSFTA-IPA Annex 6 - 9 
 
2. 
The disputing parties shall share the expenses that arise from organisational matters 
equally, including the remuneration and expenses of the mediator. The fees and 
expenses of the mediators shall be in accordance with those determined pursuant to 
Regulation 14(1) of the Administrative and Financial Regulations of the ICSID 
Convention in force on the date of the initiation of the mediation. 
 
 
________________ 
 
