 
PROTOCOL 1 
CONCERNING THE DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT  
OF "ORIGINATING PRODUCTS" AND METHODS  
OF ADMINISTRATIVE CO-OPERATION 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
SECTION 1 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
ARTICLE 1  Definitions 
 
SECTION 2 
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF "ORIGINATING PRODUCTS" 
 
ARTICLE 2  General requirements 
ARTICLE 3  Cumulation of Origin 
ARTICLE 4  Wholly Obtained Products 
ARTICLE 5  Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products 
ARTICLE 6  Insufficient Working or Processing 
ARTICLE 7  Unit of Qualification 
ARTICLE 8  Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
ARTICLE 9  Sets 
ARTICLE 10  Neutral Elements 
ARTICLE 11  Accounting Segregation 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 1  
SECTION 3 
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
ARTICLE 12  Principle of Territoriality 
ARTICLE 13  Non Alteration 
ARTICLE 14  Exhibitions 
 
SECTION 4 
DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION 
 
ARTICLE 15  Prohibition of Drawback of, or Exemption from, Customs Duties 
 
SECTION 5 
ORIGIN DECLARATION 
 
ARTICLE 16  General Requirements 
ARTICLE 17  Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration 
ARTICLE 18  Approved Exporter 
ARTICLE 19  Validity of Origin Declaration 
ARTICLE 20  Submission of Origin Declaration 
ARTICLE 21  Importation in Instalments 
ARTICLE 22  Exemptions from Origin Declaration 
ARTICLE 23  Supporting Documents 
ARTICLE 24  Preservation of Origin Declaration and Supporting Documents 
ARTICLE 25  Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
ARTICLE 26  Amounts Expressed in Euro 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 2  
SECTION 6 
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION 
 
ARTICLE 27  Cooperation between Competent Authorities 
ARTICLE 28  Verification of Origin Declarations 
ARTICLE 29  Administrative Enquiries 
ARTICLE 30  Settlement of Disputes 
ARTICLE 31  Penalties 
 
SECTION 7 
CEUTA AND MELILLA 
 
ARTICLE 32  Application of this Protocol 
ARTICLE 33  Special Conditions 
 
SECTION 8 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
ARTICLE 34  Amendments to this Protocol 
ARTICLE 35  Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 3  
List of Appendices 
 
ANNEX A:  INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX B 
ANNEX B:  LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED OUT ON NON-
ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER THAT THE PRODUCT MANUFACTURED CAN 
OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS 
ANNEX B(a):  ADDENDUM TO ANNEX B 
ANNEX C:  MATERIALS EXCLUDED FROM CUMULATION UNDER PARAGRAPH 2 OF ARTICLE 3 
ANNEX D:  PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 9 OF ARTICLE 3 FOR WHICH MATERIALS 
ORIGINATING IN AN ASEAN COUNTRY SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS MATERIALS 
ORIGINATING IN A PARTY 
ANNEX E:  TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION 
 
Joint Declarations 
 
JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING THE PRINCIPALITY OF ANDORRA 
JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING THE REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO 
JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING THE REVISION OF THE RULES OF ORIGIN CONTAINED IN 
PROTOCOL 1 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 4  
SECTION 1 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
Definitions 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Protocol: 
 
(a)  "ASEAN country" means a member state of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations which 
is not a Party to this Agreement; 
 
(b)  "chapters" and "headings" and "subheadings" mean the chapters, the headings and 
sub-headings used in the nomenclature which makes up the Harmonized System with the 
changes pursuant to the Recommendation of 26 June 2004 of the Customs Cooperation 
Council; 
 
(c)  "classified" refers to the classification of a product or material under a particular chapter, 
heading, or sub-heading of the Harmonized System; 
 
(d)  "consignment" means products which are either sent simultaneously from one exporter to 
one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering their shipment from the 
exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a document, by a single invoice; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 5  
(e)  "customs value" means the value as determined in accordance with the Customs Valuation 
Agreement; 
 
(f)  "ex-works price" means the price paid for the product ex-works to the manufacturer in 
whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried out, provided that the price 
includes the value of all the materials used and all other costs related to its production, 
minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is 
exported. 
 
Where the actual price paid does not reflect all costs related to the manufacturing of the 
product which are actually incurred in the Union or in Singapore, the ex-works price means 
the sum of all those costs, minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the 
product obtained is exported; 
 
(g)  "fungible materials" means materials that are of the same kind and commercial quality, with 
the same technical and physical characteristics, and which cannot be distinguished from one 
another once they are incorporated into the finished product; 
 
(h)  "goods" means both materials and products; 
 
(i)  "manufacture" means any kind of working or processing including assembly; 
 
(j)  "material" means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used in the 
manufacture of the product; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 6  
(k)  "product" means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for later use in 
another manufacturing operation; and 
 
(l)  "value of materials" means the customs value at the time of importation of the non-
originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first 
ascertainable price paid for the materials in the Union or in Singapore. 
 
2.  For the purposes of subparagraph 1(f), where the last working or processing has been 
subcontracted to a manufacturer, the term "manufacturer" may refer to the enterprise that has 
employed the subcontractor. 
 
 
SECTION 2 
 
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF "ORIGINATING PRODUCTS" 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
General Requirements 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating in a 
Party: 
 
(a)  products wholly obtained in a Party within the meaning of Article 4; and 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 7  
(b)  products obtained in a Party incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained 
there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the 
Party concerned within the meaning of Article 5. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
Cumulation of Origin 
 
1.  Notwithstanding Article 2 (General Requirements), products shall be considered as 
originating in a Party if such products are obtained there by incorporating materials originating in 
the other Party, provided that the working or processing carried out goes beyond the operations 
referred to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). It shall not be necessary that the 
materials of the other Party have undergone sufficient working or processing. 
 
2.  Materials originating in an ASEAN country which is applying with the Union a preferential 
agreement in accordance with Article XXIV of the GATT 1994, shall be considered as materials 
originating in a Party when incorporated in a product obtained in that Party, provided that they 
have undergone working or processing in that Party which goes beyond the operations referred to 
in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). 
 
3.  For the purposes of paragraph 2, the origin of the materials shall be determined according to 
the rules of origin applicable in the framework of the Union's preferential agreements with those 
countries. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 8  
4.  For the purposes of paragraph 2, the originating status of materials exported from one of 
the ASEAN countries to a Party to be used in further working or processing shall be established by 
a proof of origin under which these materials could be exported directly to the Union. 
 
5.  The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 2 to 7 may only be applied provided that: 
 
(a)  the ASEAN countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status have undertaken to: 
 
(i)  comply or ensure compliance with this Protocol; and 
 
(ii)  provide the administrative cooperation necessary to ensure the correct 
implementation of this Protocol both with regard to the Union and among themselves; 
 
(b)  the undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) have been notified to the Union. 
 
6.  Origin declarations issued by application of paragraph 4 shall bear one of the following 
entries: 
 
(a)  "Application of Article 3(2) of Protocol 1 of the EU/Singapore FTA"; or 
 
(b)  "Application du paragraphe 2 de l'article 3 du protocole n° 1 de l'ALE UE/Singapour". 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 9  
7.  The materials listed in Annex C to this Protocol shall be excluded from the cumulation 
provided for in paragraphs 2 to 6 where at the time of importation of the product: 
 
(a)  the tariff preference applicable to the materials in a Party is not the same for all the 
countries involved in the cumulation; and 
 
(b)  the materials concerned would benefit, through cumulation, from a tariff treatment more 
favourable than the one they would benefit from if directly exported to a Party. 
 
8.  At the request of a Party, the Parties, by decision in the Committee on Customs established 
pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees), may modify Annex C to this Protocol. Any 
request for such a modification shall be communicated to the other Party at least two months 
before the meeting of that Committee. 
 
9.  Materials originating in an ASEAN country shall be considered as materials originating in a 
Party when further processed or incorporated into one of the products listed in Annex D to this 
Protocol obtained there, provided that they have undergone working or processing in that Party 
which goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). 
 
10.  For the purposes of paragraph 9, the origin of the materials shall be determined according to 
the preferential rules of origin applicable to General System of Preferences (hereinafter referred 
to as "GSP") beneficiary countries which are laid down in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2015/24461. 
 
                                                 
1  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 of 28 July 2015 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 
of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards detailed rules concerning certain provisions of the 
Union Customs Code (OJ EU L 343, 29.12.2015, p. 1). 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 10  
11.  For the purposes of paragraph 9, the originating status of materials exported from one of 
the ASEAN countries to a Party to be used in further working or processing shall be established by 
a proof of origin in accordance with the preferential rules applicable to GSP beneficiary countries 
as laid down in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446. 
 
12.  The cumulation provided for in paragraphs 9 to 13 may only be applied on the condition 
that: 
 
(a)  the ASEAN countries involved in the acquisition of the originating status have undertaken to: 
 
(i)  comply or ensure compliance with this Protocol; and 
 
(ii)  provide the administrative cooperation necessary to ensure the correct 
implementation of this Protocol both with regard to the Union and between 
themselves; 
 
(b)  the undertakings referred to in subparagraph (a) have been notified to the Union. 
 
13.  Origin declarations issued by application of paragraph 9 shall bear one of the following 
entries: 
 
(a)  "Application of Article 3(9) of Protocol 1 of the EU/Singapore FTA"; or 
 
(b)  "Application du paragraphe 9 de l'article 3 du protocole n° 1 de l'ALE UE/Singapour". 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 11  
14.  At the request of a Party, the Parties, by decision in the Committee on Customs established 
pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees), may modify Annex D to this Protocol. Any 
request for such a modification shall be communicated to the other Party at least two months 
before the meeting of the Committee. 
 
15.  The cumulation provided for in paragraph 9 to 13 shall cease to apply when conditions of 
paragraphs 2 to 7 are met. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
Wholly Obtained Products 
 
1.  The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in a Party: 
 
(a)  mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed; 
 
(b)  plants and vegetable products grown or harvested there; 
 
(c)  live animals born and raised there; 
 
(d)  products from live animals raised there; 
 
(e)  products from slaughtered animals born and raised there; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 12  
(f)  products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; 
 
(g)  products of aquaculture from fish, crustaceans and molluscs that are born and raised there; 
 
(h)  products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the territorial seas of 
a Party by their vessels; 
 
(i)  products made aboard their factory ships exclusively from products referred to in 
subparagraph (h); 
 
(j)  used articles collected there that are fit only for the recovery of raw materials; 
 
(k)  waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; 
 
(l)  products extracted from marine soil or subsoil outside the territorial seas of a Party, 
provided that the Party has sole rights to work that soil or subsoil; and 
 
(m)  goods produced there exclusively from products specified in subparagraphs (a) to (l). 
 
2.  The terms "their vessels" and "their factory ships" in subparagraphs 1(h) and 1(i) shall apply 
only to vessels and factory ships: 
 
(a)  which are registered in a Member State of the Union or in Singapore; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 13  
(b)  which sail under the flag of a Member State of the Union or of Singapore; and 
 
(c)  which meet one of the following conditions: 
 
(i)  they are at least fifty percent owned by nationals of a Member State of the Union or of 
Singapore; 
 
or 
 
(ii)  they are owned by companies: 
 
(1)  which have their head office and their main place of business in a Member State 
of the Union or in Singapore, and 
 
(2)  which are at least fifty percent owned by a Member State of the Union or by 
Singapore, by public entities or nationals of a Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products 
 
1.  For the purposes of subparagraph (b) of Article 2 (General Requirements), products which 
are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the 
conditions set out in the list in Annex B or B(a) to this Protocol are fulfilled. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 14  
2.  The conditions referred to above indicate, for all products covered by this Agreement, the 
working or processing which must be carried out on non-originating materials used in 
manufacturing, and apply only in relation to such materials. It follows that if a product which has 
acquired originating status by fulfilling the conditions set out in the list in Annex B or B(a) to this 
Protocol is used in the manufacture of another product, the conditions applicable to the product 
in which it is incorporated do not apply to the product that acquired originating status, and no 
account shall be taken of the non-originating materials which may have been used in its 
manufacture. 
 
3.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1 and subject to paragraphs 4 and 5, non-originating 
materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list in Annex B or B(a) to this Protocol, 
are not to be used in the manufacture of a given product may nevertheless be used, provided that 
their total value or net weight assessed for the product does not exceed: 
 
(a)  ten percent of the weight of the product for products falling within Chapters 2 and 4 to 24 of 
the Harmonized System, other than processed fishery products of Chapter 16; 
 
(b)  ten percent of the ex-works price of the product for other products, except for products 
falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonized System, for which the tolerances 
mentioned in Notes 6 and 7 of Annex A to this Protocol, shall apply. 
 
4.  Paragraph 3 shall not be construed to allow any of the percentages for the maximum 
content of non-originating materials as specified in the list in Annex B to this Protocol to be 
exceeded. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 15  
5.  Paragraphs 3 and 4 do not apply to products wholly obtained in a Party within the meaning 
of Article 4 (Wholly Obtained Products). However, without prejudice to Article 6 (Insufficient 
Working or Processing) and paragraph 2 of Article 7 (Unit of Qualification) the tolerance provided 
for in those paragraphs shall nevertheless apply to the sum of all the materials which are used in 
the manufacture of a product and for which the rule for that product laid down in the list in Annex 
B to this Protocol requires that such materials be wholly obtained. 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
Insufficient Working or Processing 
 
1.  Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as 
insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or not the 
requirements of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) are satisfied: 
 
(a)  preserving operations to ensure that the products remain in good condition during transport 
and storage; 
 
(b)  the breaking-up and assembly of packages; 
 
(c)  the washing, cleaning; removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings; 
 
(d)  the ironing or pressing of textiles and textile articles; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 16  
(e)  simple painting and polishing operations; 
 
(f)  the husking and partial or total milling of rice; the polishing and glazing of cereals and rice; 
 
(g)  operations to colour or flavour sugar or form sugar lumps; the partial or total milling of 
crystal sugar; 
 
(h)  the peeling, stoning and shelling of fruits, nuts and vegetables; 
 
(i)  sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting; 
 
(j)  sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching (including the making-up of sets of 
articles); 
 
(k)  simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards and all 
other simple packaging operations; 
 
(l)  the affixing or printing of marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs on products 
or their packaging; 
 
(m)  the simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds; mixing of sugar with any 
material; 
 
(n)  the simple addition of water to or the dilution, dehydration or denaturation of products; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 17  
(o)  the simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or the disassembly of 
products into parts; 
 
(p)  a combination of two or more of the operations specified in subparagraphs (a) to (o); or 
 
(q)  the slaughter of animals. 
 
2.  For the purpose of paragraph 1, operations shall be considered simple when no special skills 
or machines, apparatus or tools that were especially produced or installed for those operations 
are required for their performance. 
 
3.  All operations on a given product carried out either in the Union or in Singapore shall be 
considered together when determining whether the working or processing undergone by that 
product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of paragraph 1. 
 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
Unit of Qualification 
 
1.  The unit of qualification for the application of the provisions of this Protocol shall be the 
product which is considered as the basic unit when determining classification using the 
nomenclature of the Harmonized System. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 18  
2.  When a consignment consists of a number of identical products classified under the same 
heading of the Harmonized System, each individual item shall be taken into account when 
applying the provisions of this Protocol. 
 
Where, under General Interpretative Rule 5 of the Harmonized System, packaging is included with 
the product for classification purposes, the packaging shall be included for the purposes of 
determining origin. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or 
vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not 
separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or 
vehicle in question. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 19  
ARTICLE 9 
 
Sets 
 
Sets, as defined in General Interpretative Rule 3 of the Harmonized System, shall be regarded as 
originating when all component products are originating products. When a set is composed of 
originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, 
provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed fifteen percent of the ex-
works price of the set. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
 
Neutral Elements 
 
In order to determine whether a product originates in a Party, it shall not be necessary to 
determine the origin of the following elements which might be used in its manufacture: 
 
(a)  energy and fuel; 
 
(b)  plant and equipment, including goods to be used for their maintenance; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 20  
(c)  machines and tools and dies and moulds; spare parts and materials used in the maintenance 
of equipment and buildings; lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other materials 
used in production or used to operate equipment and buildings; gloves, glasses, footwear, 
clothing, safety equipment and supplies; equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or 
inspecting the good; catalysts and solvents; and 
 
(d)  other goods which do not enter, and which are not intended to enter, into the final 
composition of the product. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
 
Accounting Segregation 
 
1.  If originating and non-originating fungible materials are used in the working or processing of 
a product, the competent governmental authorities, at the written request of economic operators, 
may authorise the management of materials using the accounting segregation method without 
keeping the materials in separate stocks. 
 
2.  The competent governmental authorities may make the granting of the authorisation 
referred to in paragraph 1 subject to any conditions they deem appropriate. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 21  
3.  The authorisation shall be granted only if it can be ensured by use of the accounting 
segregation method that, at any given time, the number of products obtained which could be 
considered as originating in the Union or in Singapore is the same as the number that would have 
been obtained by using a method of physical segregation of the stocks. 
 
4.  If authorised, the accounting segregation method, for example, averaging, last-in, first-out, 
or first-in, first-out, shall be applied and the method used shall be recorded on the basis of the 
general accounting principles applicable in the Union or in Singapore, depending on where the 
product is manufactured. 
 
5.  A manufacturer using the accounting segregation method shall make out or apply for origin 
declarations for the quantity of products which may be considered as originating in the exporting 
Party. At the request of the customs authorities or competent governmental authorities of the 
exporting Party, the beneficiary shall provide a statement of how the quantities have been 
managed. 
 
6.  The competent governmental authorities shall monitor the use made of the authorisations 
referred to in paragraph 3 and may withdraw them if a manufacturer makes improper use of the 
authorisation or fails to fulfil any of the other conditions laid down in this Protocol. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 22  
SECTION 3 
 
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
 
Principle of Territoriality 
 
1.  The conditions set out in Section 2 relating to the acquisition of originating status must be 
fulfilled without interruption in a Party. 
 
2.  If originating goods exported from a Party to a non-Party return, they must be considered as 
non-originating goods, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities 
that: 
 
(a)  the returning goods are the same as those exported; and 
 
(b)  they have not undergone any operation beyond that necessary to preserve them in good 
condition while in that non-Party or while being exported. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 23  
ARTICLE 13 
 
Non Alteration 
 
1.  The products declared for importation in a Party shall be the same products as exported 
from the other Party in which they are considered to originate. They shall not have been altered, 
transformed in any way or subjected to operations other than operations to preserve them in 
good condition or other than adding or affixing marks, labels, seals or any other documentation to 
ensure compliance with specific domestic requirements of the importing Party, prior to being 
declared for import. 
 
2.  The storage of products or consignments may take place, provided they remain under 
customs supervision in the country(ies) of transit. 
 
3.  Without prejudice to Section 5, the splitting of consignments may take place where carried 
out by the exporter or under his responsibility provided they remain under customs supervision in 
the country(ies) of transit. 
 
4.  Compliance with paragraphs 1 to 3 shall be considered as satisfied unless the customs 
authorities have reason to believe the contrary; in such cases, the customs authorities may 
request the declarant to provide evidence of compliance, which may be given by any means, 
including contractual transport documents such as bills of lading or factual or concrete evidence 
based on marking or numbering of packages or any evidence related to the goods themselves. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 24  
ARTICLE 14 
 
Exhibitions 
 
1.  Originating products, sent for exhibition in a country other than a Party and sold after the 
exhibition for importation in a Party shall benefit on importation from the provisions of this 
Agreement provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: 
 
(a)  an exporter has consigned these products from a Party to the country in which the 
exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; 
 
(b)  the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in a 
Party; 
 
(c)  the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter in the 
state in which they were sent for exhibition; and 
 
(d)  the products have not been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the 
exhibition since they were consigned for exhibition. 
 
2.  An origin declaration shall be issued or made out in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5 and submitted to the customs authorities of the importing Party in the normal manner. 
The name and address of the exhibition must be indicated thereon. Where necessary, additional 
documentary evidence of the conditions under which they have been exhibited may be required. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 25  
3.  Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, industrial, agricultural or crafts exhibition, fair or similar 
public show or display which is not organised for private purposes in shops or business premises 
with a view to the sale of foreign products, during which the products remain under customs 
control. 
 
 
SECTION 4 
 
DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
 
Prohibition of Drawback of, or Exemption from, Customs Duties 
 
1.  Non-originating materials used in the manufacture of products originating in the Union or in 
Singapore, for which an origin declaration has been issued or made out in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5, shall not be subject in the Union or in Singapore to drawback of, or 
exemption from, customs duties of whatever kind. 
 
2.  The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall apply to any arrangement for refund, remission or non-
payment, whether partial or complete, of customs duties or charges having an equivalent effect, 
applicable in the Union or in Singapore to materials used in the manufacture, where such refund, 
remission or non-payment applies, whether expressly or in effect, where the products obtained 
from such materials are exported, but not where they are retained in a Party for home use. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 26  
3.  The exporter of products covered by an origin declaration shall be prepared to submit at any 
time, upon request from the customs authorities, all appropriate documents to prove that no 
drawback has been obtained in respect of the non-originating materials used in the manufacture 
of the products concerned and that all customs duties or charges having equivalent effect 
applicable to such materials have actually been paid. 
 
4.  The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also apply in respect of packaging within the 
meaning of paragraph 2 of Article 7 (Unit of Qualification), accessories, spare parts and tools 
within the meaning of Article 8 (Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools), and products in a set within 
the meaning of Article 9 (Sets), when such items are non-originating. 
 
5.  The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply only in respect of materials which are subject 
to this Protocol. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 27  
SECTION 5 
 
ORIGIN DECLARATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 16 
 
General Requirements 
 
1.  Products originating in the Union, on importation into Singapore, and products originating in 
Singapore, on importation into the Union, shall benefit from preferential tariff treatment of this 
Agreement upon submission of a declaration, (hereinafter referred to as "origin declaration"). The 
origin declaration is to be provided on an invoice or any other commercial document that 
describes the originating product in sufficient detail to enable its identification. 
 
2.  Originating products within the meaning of this Protocol, in the cases specified in Article 22 
(Exemptions from Origin Declaration), shall benefit from preferential tariff treatment of this 
Agreement without it being necessary to submit any of the documents referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 28  
ARTICLE 17 
 
Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration 
 
1.  An origin declaration as referred to in Article 16 (General Requirements) may be made out: 
 
(a)  in the Union: 
 
(i)  by an exporter within the meaning of Article 18 (Approved Exporter); or 
 
(ii)  by an exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing 
originating products whose total value does not exceed 6 000 euro. 
 
(b)  in Singapore by an exporter who is: 
 
(i)  registered with the competent authority and who has received a Unique Entity 
Number; and 
 
(ii)  complying with relevant regulatory provisions in Singapore pertaining to making out of 
origin declarations. 
 
2.  An origin declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be considered as 
products originating in the Union or in Singapore and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 29  
3.  The exporter making out an origin declaration shall be prepared at all times to submit, at the 
request of the customs authorities of the exporting Party, all appropriate documents as referred 
to under Article 23 (Supporting Documents) proving the originating status of the products 
concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 
 
4.  An origin declaration shall be made out by the exporter by typing, stamping or printing on 
the invoice, the delivery note or another commercial document, the declaration, the text of which 
appears in Annex E to this Protocol, in accordance with the domestic law of the exporting Party. If 
the declaration is hand-written, it shall be written in ink in capital characters. In the case of 
exports from Singapore, the origin declaration shall be set out using the English version, and in the 
case of exports from Union, the origin declaration may be set out in one of the linguistic versions, 
in Annex E to this Protocol. 
 
5.  Origin declarations shall bear the original signature of the exporter in manuscript. An 
approved exporter as referred to in Article 18 (Approved Exporter) shall not be required to sign 
such declarations provided that he gives the customs authorities of the exporting Party a written 
undertaking that he accepts full responsibility for any origin declaration which identifies him as if it 
had been signed in manuscript by him. 
 
6.  By derogation from paragraph 1, an origin declaration may exceptionally be made out after 
exportation ("retrospective statement") on condition that it is presented in the importing Party no 
later than two years, in the case of the Union, and one year, in the case of Singapore, after the 
entry of the goods into the territory. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 30  
ARTICLE 18 
 
Approved Exporter 
 
1.  The customs authorities of the Member States of the Union may authorise any exporter who 
exports products under this Agreement to make out origin declarations irrespective of the value of 
the products concerned (hereinafter referred to as "approved exporter"). An exporter seeking 
such authorisation must offer to the satisfaction of the customs authorities all guarantees 
necessary to verify the originating status of the products as well as the fulfilment of the other 
requirements of this Protocol. 
 
2.  The customs authorities of the Member States of the Union may grant the status of 
approved exporter subject to any conditions which they consider appropriate. 
 
3.  The customs authorities of the Member States of the Union shall grant to the approved 
exporter a customs authorisation number which shall appear on the origin declaration. 
 
4.  The customs authorities of the Member States of the Union shall monitor the use of the 
authorisation by the approved exporter. 
 
5.  The customs authorities of the Member States of the Union may withdraw the authorisation 
at any time. They shall do so where the approved exporter no longer offers the guarantees 
referred to in paragraph 1, no longer fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 or otherwise 
makes an incorrect use of the authorisation. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 31  
ARTICLE 19 
 
Validity of Origin Declaration 
 
1.  An origin declaration shall be valid for twelve months from the date of issue in the exporting 
Party. Preferential tariff treatment shall be claimed within such period to the customs authorities 
of the importing Party. 
 
2.  Origin declarations which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing Party 
after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purposes of 
applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit these documents by the final date set 
is due to exceptional circumstances. 
 
3.  In cases of belated presentation other than those of paragraph 2, the customs authorities of 
the importing Party may accept the origin declarations where the products have been submitted 
before such final date. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
 
Submission of Origin Declaration 
 
For the purposes of claiming preferential tariff treatment, origin declarations shall be submitted to 
the customs authorities of the importing Party in accordance with the procedures applicable in 
that Party. Such authorities may require a translation of an origin declaration. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 32  
ARTICLE 21 
 
Importation in Instalments 
 
Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities 
of the importing Party, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of General 
Rule 2(a) of the Harmonized System falling within Sections XVI and XVII or headings 7308 and 9406 
of the Harmonized System are imported in instalments, a single origin declaration for such 
products shall be submitted to the customs authorities upon importation of the first instalment. 
 
 
ARTICLE 22 
 
Exemptions from Origin Declaration 
 
1.  Products which are sent as small packages from private persons to private persons, or which 
form part of travellers' personal luggage, shall be admitted as originating products without 
requiring the submission of an origin declaration, provided that such products are not imported by 
way of trade and have been declared as meeting the requirements of this Protocol, and provided 
that there is no doubt as to the veracity of such a declaration. In the case of products sent by post, 
this declaration can be made on the customs declaration CN22/CN23 or on a sheet of paper 
annexed to that document. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 33  
2.  Imports which are occasional and consist solely of products for the personal use of the 
recipients or of travellers or their families shall not be considered as imports by way of trade if it is 
evident from the nature and quantity of the products that no commercial purpose is intended. 
 
3.  The total value of these products shall not exceed 500 euro in the case of small packages 
or 1200 euro in the case of products forming part of travellers' personal luggage. 
 
 
ARTICLE 23 
 
Supporting Documents 
 
The documents referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 17 (Conditions for Making Out an Origin 
Declaration) used for the purpose of proving that products covered by an origin declaration can be 
considered as products originating in the Union or in Singapore and fulfil the other requirements 
of this Protocol may consist, inter alia, of the following: 
 
(a)  direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to obtain the goods 
concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal book-keeping; 
 
(b)  documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in a Party, 
where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; or 
 
(c)  documents proving the working or processing of materials in a Party, issued or made out in a 
Party, where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 34  
ARTICLE 24 
 
Preservation of Origin Declaration and Supporting Documents 
 
1.  The exporter making out an origin declaration shall keep a copy of this origin declaration, as 
well as the documents referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 17 (Conditions for Making Out an 
Origin Declaration), for at least three years. 
 
2.  The customs authorities of the importing Party shall keep the origin declarations submitted 
to them for at least three years. 
 
3.  Each Party shall permit, in accordance with that Party's laws and regulations, exporters in its 
territory to maintain documentation or records in any medium, provided that the documentation 
or records can be retrieved and printed. 
 
 
ARTICLE 25 
 
Discrepancies and Formal Errors 
 
1.  The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the origin declaration 
and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purposes of carrying 
out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto render the origin declaration null 
and void if it is duly established that that document corresponds to the products submitted. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 35  
2.  Obvious formal errors such as typing errors on a origin declaration should not cause the 
document to be rejected if those errors are not such as to create doubts concerning the 
correctness of the statements made in the document. 
 
 
ARTICLE 26 
 
Amounts Expressed in Euro 
 
1.  For the application of the provisions of subparagraph 1(a)(ii) of Article 17 (Conditions for 
Making Out an Origin Declaration) and paragraph 3 of Article 22 (Exemptions from Origin 
Declaration) in cases where products are invoiced in a currency other than euro, amounts in the 
national currencies of the Member States of the Union equivalent to the amounts expressed in 
euro shall be fixed annually by each of the countries concerned. 
 
2.  A consignment shall benefit from the provisions of subparagraph 1(a)(ii) of Article 17 
(Conditions for Making Out an Origin Declaration) and paragraph 3 of Article 22 (Exemptions from 
Origin Declaration) by reference to the currency in which the invoice is drawn up, according to the 
amount fixed by the Party concerned. 
 
3.  The amounts to be used in any given national currency shall be the equivalent in that 
currency of the amounts expressed in euro as at the first working day of October. The amounts 
shall be communicated to the European Commission by 15 October and shall apply from 1 January 
the following year. The European Commission shall notify all countries concerned of the relevant 
amounts. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 36  
4.  A Member State of the Union may round up or down the amount resulting from the 
conversion into its national currency of an amount expressed in euro. The rounded amount may 
not differ from the amount resulting from the conversion by more than five percent. A Member 
State of the Union may retain unchanged its national currency equivalent of an amount expressed 
in euro if, at the time of the annual adjustment provided for in paragraph 3, the conversion of that 
amount, prior to any rounding-off, results in an increase of less than fifteen percent in the national 
currency equivalent. The national currency equivalent may be retained unchanged if the 
conversion would result in a decrease in that equivalent value. 
 
5.  The amounts expressed in euro shall be reviewed by the Parties in the Committee on 
Customs established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees) at the request of the Union 
or of Singapore. When carrying out this review, the Parties shall consider the desirability of 
preserving the effects of the limits concerned in real terms. For these purposes, the Parties may, 
by decision in the Committee on Customs, modify the amounts expressed in euro. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 37  
SECTION 6 
 
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION 
 
 
ARTICLE 27 
 
Cooperation between Competent Authorities 
 
1.  The customs authorities of the Parties shall provide each other, through the European 
Commission, with the addresses of the customs authorities responsible for verifying the origin 
declarations. 
 
2.  In order to ensure the proper application of this Protocol, the Parties shall assist each other, 
through their competent authorities, in checking the authenticity of origin declarations and the 
correctness of the information given in such documents. 
 
 
ARTICLE 28 
 
Verification of Origin Declarations 
 
1.  Subsequent verifications of origin declarations shall be carried out at random or whenever 
the customs authorities of the importing Party have reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of 
such documents, the originating status of the products concerned or the fulfilment of the other 
requirements of this Protocol. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 38  
2.  For the purposes of implementing the provisions of paragraph 1, if it has been submitted, 
the customs authorities of the importing Party shall return the origin declaration, or a copy of that 
document, to the customs authorities of the exporting Party giving, where appropriate, the 
reasons for the enquiry. Any document and information obtained suggesting that the information 
given on the origin declarations is incorrect shall be forwarded in support of the request for 
verification. 
 
3.  The verification shall be carried out by the customs authorities of the exporting Party. For 
this purpose, they shall have the right to request any evidence and to carry out any inspection of 
the exporter's accounts or any other check considered appropriate. 
 
4.  If the customs authorities of the importing Party decide to suspend the granting of 
preferential treatment to the products concerned while awaiting the results of the verification, the 
release of the products shall be offered to the importer, subject to any precautionary measures 
judged necessary. Any suspension of preferential treatment shall be reinstated as soon as possible 
after the originating status of the products concerned or the fulfilment of the other requirements 
of this Protocol has been ascertained by the customs authorities of the importing Party. 
 
5.  The customs authorities requesting the verification shall be informed of the results of this 
verification as soon as possible. These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are 
authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the 
Parties and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 39  
6.  If, in cases of reasonable doubt, there is no reply within ten months of the date of the 
verification request or the reply does not contain sufficient information to allow the requesting 
customs authorities to determine the authenticity of the document in question or the real origin 
of the products, the requesting customs authorities, except in exceptional circumstances, shall 
refuse entitlement to the preferences. 
 
 
ARTICLE 29 
 
Administrative Enquiries 
 
1.  Where the results of the verification procedure or any other available substantive 
information appear to indicate that the provisions of this Protocol are being contravened, the 
exporting Party, on its own initiative or at the request of the other Party, shall carry out 
appropriate enquiries or arrange for such enquiries to be carried out with due urgency to identify 
and prevent such contraventions. The results of such enquiries shall be communicated to the Party 
requesting verification. 
 
2.  The Party requesting verification may be present at the enquiries, subject to conditions that 
may be laid down by the competent authority in the exporting Party. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 40  
3.  Where a Party has made a finding, on the basis of objective information, of a repeated 
failure2 to provide administrative cooperation under this Section, or of systematic and intentional 
fraud from the other Party, the Party concerned may temporarily suspend the relevant 
preferential treatment of the product or products concerned in accordance with paragraph 4. 
 
4.  The application of a temporary suspension shall be subject to the following conditions: 
 
(a)  the Party which has made a finding in accordance with paragraph 3 shall without undue 
delay notify the Trade Committee established pursuant to Article 16.1 (Trade Committee) of 
its finding together with the objective information and its recommended course of action to 
be taken. Upon receipt of such notification, the Trade Committee shall deliberate on the 
appropriate course of action on the basis of all relevant information and objective findings, 
with a view to reaching a solution acceptable to both Parties. During the period of 
consultations referred to above, the product(s) concerned shall enjoy the preferential 
treatment; 
 
(b)  where the Parties have entered into consultations with the Trade Committee and have failed 
to agree on an acceptable solution within three months following the notification, the Party 
concerned may temporarily suspend the relevant preferential treatment of the product(s) 
concerned in so far as is strictly necessary to address the Party's concerns. Such temporary 
suspension shall be notified to the Trade Committee without undue delay; 
 
                                                 
2  For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Article 29 (Administrative Enquiries), a repeated failure to provide 
administrative cooperation shall mean, inter alia, a repeated failure to respect the obligations to verify the 
originating status of the product(s) concerned, or a repeated refusal or undue delay in carrying out and/or 
communicating the results of enquiries and/or subsequent verification of the proof of origin, over a continuous 
period of ten months. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 41  
(c)  temporary suspensions under this Article shall be commensurate with the impact on the 
financial interests of the Party concerned arising from the situation giving rise to the finding 
of the Party referred to paragraph 3. They shall not exceed a period of six months, which 
may be renewed, if at the date of expiry nothing substantive has changed with respect to the 
condition that gave rise to the initial suspension; and 
 
(d)  temporary suspensions, and any renewal thereof, shall be notified immediately after their 
adoption to the Trade Committee. They shall be subject to periodic consultations within the 
Trade Committee, in particular with a view to their termination as soon as the conditions for 
their application no longer apply. 
 
 
ARTICLE 30 
 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
1.  Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Article 28 (Verification of 
Origin Declarations) which cannot be settled between the competent authorities requesting a 
verification and the competent authorities responsible for carrying out this verification, or where 
they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, they shall be submitted to the 
Committee on Customs established pursuant to Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees). 
 
2.  All disputes between the importer and the competent authorities of the importing Party 
shall be settled under the legislation of that Party. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 42  
ARTICLE 31 
 
Penalties 
 
The Parties shall provide for procedures for penalties to be imposed on any person who draws up, 
or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of 
obtaining a preferential treatment for products. 
 
 
SECTION 7 
 
CEUTA AND MELILLA 
 
 
ARTICLE 32 
 
Application of this Protocol 
 
1.  The term "Union" does not cover Ceuta and Melilla. 
 
2.  Products originating in Singapore, when imported into Ceuta or Melilla, shall enjoy in all 
respects the same customs regime as that which is applied to products originating in the customs 
territory of the Union under Protocol 2 of the Act concerning the conditions of accession of the 
Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic and the adjustments to the Treaties.3 Singapore 
shall grant to imports of products covered by the Agreement and originating in Ceuta and Melilla 
the same customs regime as that which is granted to products imported from and originating in 
the Union. 
 
                                                 
3  OJ EU L 302, 15.11.1985, p. 23. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 43  
3.  For the purpose of the application of paragraph 2 concerning products originating in Ceuta 
and Melilla, this Protocol shall apply mutatis mutandis subject to the special conditions set out in 
Article 33 (Special Conditions). 
 
 
ARTICLE 33 
 
Special Conditions 
 
1.  Provided that they have been transported directly in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 13 (Non Alteration), the following shall be considered as: 
 
(a)  products originating in Ceuta and Melilla: 
 
(i)  products wholly obtained in Ceuta and Melilla; 
 
(ii)  products obtained in Ceuta and Melilla in the manufacture of which products other 
than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that: 
 
(aa)  such products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the 
meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products); or 
 
(bb)  those products are originating in a Party, provided that they have been 
submitted to working or processing which goes beyond the operations referred 
to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 44  
(b)  products originating in Singapore: 
 
(i)  products wholly obtained in Singapore; 
 
(ii)  products obtained in Singapore in the manufacture of which products other than those 
referred to in (a) are used, provided that: 
 
(aa)  such products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the 
meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products); or 
 
(bb)  such products originate in Ceuta and Melilla or in the Union, and provided that 
they have undergone working or processing which goes beyond the operations 
referred to in Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing). 
 
2.  Ceuta and Melilla shall be considered as a single territory. 
 
3.  The exporter or his authorised representative shall enter "Singapore" and "Ceuta and 
Melilla" on origin declarations for products originating in these territories respectively. 
 
4.  The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the application of this Protocol in 
Ceuta and Melilla. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 45  
SECTION 8 
 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
ARTICLE 34 
 
Amendments to this Protocol 
 
The Parties, by decision in the Committee on Customs established pursuant to 
Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees), may amend the provisions of this Protocol. 
Following the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the Union and one or several ASEAN 
countries, the Parties, by decision in the Committee on Customs established pursuant to 
Article 16.2 (Specialised Committees), may amend or adapt this Protocol and in particular Annex C 
referred to in paragraph 7 of Article 3 (Cumulation of Origin) to ensure coherence between the 
rules of origin applicable within the context of the preferential exchanges between ASEAN 
countries and the Union. 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 46  
ARTICLE 35 
 
Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit or Storage 
 
This Agreement may be applied to goods which comply with the provisions of this Protocol, and 
which on the date of entry into force of this Agreement are either in transit, in the Parties in 
temporary storage, in customs warehouses or in free zones, provided that an origin declaration 
that was made out retrospectively is submitted to the customs authorities of the importing Party 
within twelve months of that date, and, if requested, such declaration is submitted together with 
the documents showing that the goods have been transported directly in accordance with 
Article 13 (Non Alteration). 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 47  
ANNEX A 
 
 
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX B 
 
Note 1 – General introduction 
 
The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently worked or 
processed within the meaning of Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) of the 
Protocol. There are four different types of rule, which vary according to the product: 
 
(a)  through working or processing, a maximum content of non-originating materials is not 
exceeded; 
 
(b)  through working or processing, the applicable 4-digit Harmonized System heading or 6-digit 
Harmonized System sub-heading for the manufactured products becomes different from the 
respective 4-digit Harmonized System heading or 6-digit sub-heading for the materials used; 
 
(c)  a specific working and processing operation is carried out; and 
 
(d)  working or processing is carried out on certain wholly-obtained materials. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 48  
Note 2 – The structure of the list 
 
2.1.  The first two columns in the list describe the product obtained. The first column gives the 
heading number or chapter number used in the Harmonized System and the second column 
gives the description of goods used in that system for that heading or chapter. For each 
entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in column 3. Where, in some cases, the 
entry in the first column is preceded by an "ex", this signifies that the rules in column 3 apply 
only to the part of that heading as described in column 2. 
 
2.2.  Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1, or a chapter number is 
given and the description of products in column 2 is therefore given in general terms, the 
adjacent rules in column 3 apply to all products which, under the Harmonized System, are 
classified in headings of the chapter or in any of the headings grouped together in column 1. 
 
2.3.  Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a heading, 
each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered by the adjacent 
rules in column 3. 
 
2.4.  Where two alternative rules are set out in column 3, separated by "or", it is at the choice of 
the exporter which one to use. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 49  
Note 3 – Examples of how to apply the rules 
 
3.1.  Article 5 (Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products) of the Protocol, concerning products 
having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of other products, 
shall apply, regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside the factory where 
these products are used or in another factory in a Party. 
 
3.2.  Pursuant to Article 6 (Insufficient Working or Processing) of the Protocol, the working or 
processing carried out must go beyond the list of operations mentioned in that Article. If it 
does not, the goods shall not qualify for the granting of the benefit of preferential tariff 
treatment, even if the conditions set out in the list below are met. 
 
Subject to the provision referred to in the first sub-paragraph, the rules in the list represent 
the minimum amount of working or processing required, and the carrying-out of more 
working or processing also confers originating status; conversely, the carrying-out of less 
working or processing cannot confer originating status. 
 
Thus, if a rule provides that non-originating material may be used at a certain stage of 
manufacture, the use of such material at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed, and the 
use of such material at a later stage is not. 
 
If a rule provides that non-originating material, at a certain level of manufacture, may not be 
used, the use of materials at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed, and the use of 
materials at a later stage is not. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 50  
Example: when the list-rule for Chapter 19 requires that "non-originating materials of 
headings 1101 to 1108 cannot exceed 20 per cent weight", the use (i.e. importation) of 
cereals of Chapter 10 (materials at an earlier stage of manufacture) is not limited. 
 
3.3.  Without prejudice to Note 3.2, where a rule uses the expression "Manufacture from 
materials of any heading", then materials of any heading(s) (even materials of the same 
description and heading as the product) may be used, subject, however, to any specific 
limitations which may also be contained in the rule. 
 
The expression "Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of 
heading [...]" or "Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of 
the same heading as the product" means that materials of any heading(s) may be used, 
except those of the same description as the product as given in column 2 of the list. 
 
3.4.  When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more than one 
material, this means that one or more materials may be used. It does not require that all be 
used. 
 
3.5.  Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular 
material, the rule does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their 
inherent nature, cannot satisfy this condition. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 51  
3.6.  Where a rule in the list gives two percentages for the maximum value of non-originating 
materials that can be used, those percentages may not be added together. In other words, 
the maximum value of all the non-originating materials used may never exceed the higher of 
the percentages given. Furthermore, the individual percentages must not be exceeded in 
relation to the particular materials to which they apply. 
 
Note 4 – General provisions concerning certain agricultural goods 
 
4.1.  Agricultural goods which fall within Chapters 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 and heading 2401, and which 
are grown or harvested in the territory of a beneficiary country, shall be treated as 
originating in the territory of that country, even if grown from seeds, bulbs, rootstock, 
cuttings, grafts, shoots, buds, or other live parts of plants imported from another country. 
 
4.2.  In cases where the content of non originating sugar in a given product is subject to 
limitations, the weight of sugars of headings 1701 (sucrose) and 1702 (e.g., fructose, glucose, 
lactose, maltose, isoglucose or invert sugar) used in the manufacture of the final product and 
used in the manufacture of the non-originating products incorporated in the final product is 
taken into account for the calculation of such limitations. 
 
Note 5 - Terminology used in respect of certain textile products 
 
5.1.  The term "natural fibres" is used in the list to refer to fibres other than artificial or synthetic 
fibres. It is restricted to the stages before spinning takes place, including waste, and, unless 
otherwise specified, includes fibres which have been carded, combed or otherwise 
processed, but not spun. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 52  
5.2.  The term "natural fibres" includes horsehair of heading 0511, silk of headings 5002 
and 5003, as well as wool-fibres and fine or coarse animal hair of headings 5101 to 5105, 
cotton fibres of headings 5201 to 5203, and other vegetable fibres of headings 5301 to 5305. 
 
5.3.  The terms "textile pulp", "chemical materials" and "paper-making materials" are used in the 
list to describe the materials which are not classified in Chapters 50 to 63, but which can be 
used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or yarns. 
 
5.4.  The term "man-made staple fibres" is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial 
filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of headings 5501 to 5507. 
 
Note 6 - Tolerances applicable to products made of a mixture of textile materials 
 
6.1.  Where, for a given product in the list, reference is made to this Note, the conditions set out 
in column 3 shall not be applied to any basic textile materials used in the manufacture of this 
product and which, taken together, represent 10 % or less of the total weight of all the basic 
textile materials used. (See also Notes 6.3 and 6.4). 
 
6.2.  The tolerance mentioned in Note 6.1 may be applied only to mixed products which have 
been made from two or more basic textile materials. 
 
The following are the basic textile materials: 
 
–  silk; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 53  
–  wool; 
 
–  coarse animal hair; 
 
–  fine animal hair; 
 
–  horsehair; 
 
–  cotton; 
 
–  paper-making materials and paper; 
 
–  flax; 
 
–  true hemp; 
 
–  jute and other textile bast fibres; 
 
–  sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave; 
 
–  coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres; 
 
–  synthetic man-made filaments; 
 
–  artificial man-made filaments; 
 
–  current-conducting filaments; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 54  
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene; 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester; 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide; 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile; 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide; 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene; 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(phenylene sulphide); 
 
–  synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(vinyl chloride); 
 
–  other synthetic man-made staple fibres; 
 
–  artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose; 
 
–  other artificial man-made staple fibres; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 55  
–  yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether, whether or 
not gimped; 
 
–  yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester, whether or 
not gimped; 
 
–  products of heading 5605 (metallised yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of 
aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium 
powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or 
coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film; 
 
–  other products of heading 5605; 
 
–  glass fibres; 
 
–  metal fibres. 
 
Example: 
 
A yarn, of heading 5205, made from cotton fibres of heading 5203 and synthetic staple fibres 
of heading 5506, is a mixed yarn. Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres which do 
not satisfy the origin rules may be used, provided that their total weight does not exceed 
10 % of the weight of the yarn. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 56  
Example: 
 
A woollen fabric of heading 5112 that is made from woollen yarn of heading 5107 and 
synthetic yarn of staple fibres of heading 5509 is a mixed fabric. Therefore, synthetic yarn 
which does not satisfy the origin rules, or woollen yarn which does not satisfy the origin 
rules, or a combination of the two, may be used, provided that their total weight does not 
exceed 10 % of the weight of the fabric. 
 
Example: 
 
Tufted textile fabric of heading 5802 that is made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and 
cotton fabric of heading 5210 is only a mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed 
fabric made from yarns classified in two separate headings, or if the cotton yarns used are 
themselves mixtures. 
 
Example: 
 
If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and 
synthetic fabric of heading 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic 
textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is, accordingly, a mixed product. 
 
6.3.  In the case of products incorporating "yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible 
segments of polyether, whether or not gimped", this tolerance is 20 % in respect of this yarn. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 57  
6.4.  In the case of products incorporating a "strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a 
core of plastic film, whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 
5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of 
plastic film", the tolerance is 30 % in respect of this strip. 
 
Note 7 - Other tolerances applicable to certain textile products 
 
7.1.  Where, in the list, reference is made to this Note, textile materials (with the exception of 
linings and interlinings) which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the 
made-up product concerned may be used, provided that they are classified under a heading 
other than that of the product, and provided that that their value does not exceed 8 % of the 
ex-works price of the product. 
 
7.2.  Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials, which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63, 
may be used freely in the manufacture of textile products, whether or not they contain 
textiles. 
 
Example: 
 
If a rule in the list provides that, for a particular textile item (such as trousers), yarn must be 
used, this does not prevent the use of metal items such as buttons, because buttons are not 
classified within Chapters 50 to 63. For the same reason, it does not prevent the use of slide-
fasteners, even though slide-fasteners normally contain textiles. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 58  
7.3.  Where a percentage rule applies, the value of non-originating materials which are not 
classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken into account when calculating the value of 
the non-originating materials incorporated. 
 
Note 8 - Definition of specific processes and simple operations carried out in respect of certain 
products of Chapter 27 
 
8.1.  For the purposes of headings ex 2707 and 2713, the "specific processes" are the following: 
 
(a)  vacuum-distillation; 
 
(b)  redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process; 
 
(c)  cracking; 
 
(d)  reforming; 
 
(e)  extraction by means of selective solvents; 
 
(f)  the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with concentrated 
sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation with alkaline agents; 
decolourisation and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated 
charcoal or bauxite; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 59  
(g)  polymerisation; 
 
(h)  alkylation; 
 
(i)  isomerisation. 
 
8.2.  For the purposes of headings 2710, 2711 and 2712, the "specific processes" are the 
following: 
 
(a)  vacuum-distillation; 
 
(b)  redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process; 
 
(c)  cracking; 
 
(d)  reforming; 
 
(e)  extraction by means of selective solvents; 
 
(f)  the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with concentrated 
sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation with alkaline agents; 
decolourisation and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated 
charcoal or bauxite; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 60  
(g)  polymerisation; 
 
(h)  alkylation; 
 
(i)  isomerisation; 
 
(j)  in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, desulphurisation with hydrogen, 
resulting in a reduction of at least 85 % of the sulphur content of the products 
processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); 
 
(k)  in respect of products of heading 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other than 
filtering; 
 
(l)  in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen, at a 
pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 °C, with the use of a 
catalyst, other than to effect desulphurisation, when the hydrogen constitutes an 
active element in a chemical reaction. The further treatment, with hydrogen, of 
lubricating oils of heading ex 2710 (e.g. hydrofinishing or decolourisation), in order, 
more especially, to improve colour or stability shall not, however, be deemed to be a 
specific process; 
 
(m)  in respect of fuel oils of heading ex 2710 only, atmospheric distillation, on condition 
that less than 30 % of these products distils, by volume, including losses, at 300 °C, by 
the ASTM D 86 method; 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 61  
(n)  in respect of heavy oils other than gas oils and fuel oils of heading ex 2710 only, 
treatment by means of a high-frequency electrical brush discharge; 
 
(o)  in respect of crude products (other than petroleum jelly, ozokerite, lignite wax or peat 
wax, paraffin wax containing by weight less than 0,75 % of oil) of heading ex 2712 only, 
de-oiling by fractional crystallisation. 
 
8.3.  For the purposes of headings ex 2707 and 2713, simple operations, such as cleaning, 
decanting, desalting, water separation, filtering, colouring, marking, obtaining a sulphur 
content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur contents, or any combination of 
these operations or like operations, do not confer origin. 
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 62  
ANNEX B 
 
 
LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED OUT  
ON NON-ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER  
THAT THE PRODUCT MANUFACTURED  
CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 63  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 64  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 65  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 66  
                                                 
4  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 67  
                                                 
5  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 68  
                                                 
6  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 69  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 70  
                                                 
7  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
8  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 71  
                                                 
9  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
10  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 72  
                                                 
11  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
12  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 73  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 74  
                                                 
13  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 75  
                                                 
14  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
15  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 76  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 77  
                                                 
16  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
17  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 78  
                                                 
18  See Introductory Note 4.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 79  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 80  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 81  
                                                 
19  For the special conditions relating to "specific processes", see Introductory Notes 8.1 and 8.3. 
20  For the special conditions relating to "specific processes", see Introductory Note 8.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 82  
                                                 
21  For the special conditions relating to "specific processes", see Introductory Note 8.2. 
22  For the special conditions relating to "specific processes", see Introductory Note 8.2. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 83  
                                                 
23  For the special conditions relating to "specific processes", see Introductory Notes 8.1 and 8.3. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 84  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 85  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 86  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 87  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 88  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 89  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 90  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 91  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 92  
                                                 
24  In the case of the products composed of materials classified within both headings 3901 to 3906, and in the case of the products within headings 3907 to 3911, this 
restriction only applies to that group of materials which predominates by weight in the product. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 93  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 94  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 95  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 96  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 97  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 98  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 99  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 100  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 101  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 102  
                                                 
25  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 103  
                                                 
26  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 104  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 105  
                                                 
27  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 106  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 107  
                                                 
28  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 108  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 109  
                                                 
29  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 110  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 111  
                                                 
30  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 112  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 113  
                                                 
31  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 114  
                                                 
32  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 115  
5602 
                                                 
33  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 116  
                                                 
34  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
35  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 117  
                                                 
36  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5. 
37  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 118  
Chapter 57  Carpets and other textile floor coverings:  Spinning of natural and/or man-made staple fibres or extrusion 
of man-made filament yarn, in each case accompanied by 
–  Of needle loom felt 
weaving 
–  Of other felt 
or 
–  Other 
Manufacture from coir yarn or sisal yarn or jute yarn 
or 
Flocking accompanied by dyeing or by printing 
or 
Tufting accompanied by dyeing or by printing 
Extrusion of man-made fibres accompanied by non-woven 
techniques including needle punching38 
                                                 
38  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 119  
    However: 
–  polypropylene filament of heading 5402, 
–  polypropylene fibres of heading 5503 or 5506, or 
–  polypropylene filament tow of heading 5501, 
of which the denomination in all cases of a single filament or 
fibre is less than 9 decitex, may be used, provided that their total 
value does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
Jute fabric may be used as a backing 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 120  
                                                 
39  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 121  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 122  
                                                 
40  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 123  
                                                 
41  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 124  
                                                 
42  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 125  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 126  
5909 to 5911 
–  Woven fabrics, of a kind commonly used in papermaking or  Extrusion of man-made fibres or Spinning of natural and/or of 
other technical uses, felted or not, whether or not  man-made staple fibres, in each case accompanied by weaving 
impregnated or coated, tubular or endless with single or 
or 
multiple warp and/or weft, or flat woven with multiple 
warp and/or weft of heading 5911  Weaving accompanied by dyeing or coating 
Only the following fibres may be used: 
– –  coir yarn 
– –  yarn of polytetrafluoroethylene43, 
– –  yarn, multiple, of polyamide, coated impregnated or 
covered with a phenolic resin, 
– –  yarn of synthetic textile fibres of aromatic polyamides, 
obtained by polycondensation of m-phenylenediamine and 
isophthalic acid, 
                                                 
43  The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 127  
    – –  monofil of polytetrafluoroethylene44, 
– –  yarn of synthetic textile fibres of poly(p-phenylene 
terephthalamide), 
– –  glass fibre yarn, coated with phenol resin and gimped with 
acrylic yarn45, 
– –  copolyester monofilaments of a polyester and a resin of 
terephthalic acid and 1,4-cyclohexanediethanol and 
isophthalic acid 
                                                 
44  The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery. 
45  The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery. 
46  For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 128  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 129  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 130  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 131  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 132  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 133  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 134  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 135  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 136  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 137  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 138  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 139  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 140  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 141  
                                                 
47  SEMII – Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Institute Incorporated. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 142  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 143  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 144  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 145  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 146  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 147  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 148  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 149  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 150  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 151  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 152  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 153  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 154  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 155  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 156  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 157  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 158  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 159  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 160  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 161  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 162  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 163  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 164  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 165  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 166  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 167  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 168  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 169  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 170  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 171  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 172  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 173  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 174  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 175  
 
 
________________ 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 176  
ANNEX B(a) 
 
 
ADDENDUM TO ANNEX B 
 
Common provisions 
 
1.  For the products described below, the following rules may also apply instead of the rules set 
out in Annex B for products originating in Singapore, however limited by an annual quota. 
 
2.  A origin declaration made out pursuant to this Annex shall contain the following statement 
in English: "Derogation – Annex B(a) of Protocol Concerning the definition of the concept of 
'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation of the EU-Singapore FTA". 
 
3.  Products can be imported into the Union under these derogations upon the provision of a 
declaration signed by the approved exporter certifying that the products concerned satisfy 
the conditions of the derogation. 
 
4.  In the Union, any quantities referred to in this Annex shall be managed by the European 
Commission, which shall take all administrative actions it deems advisable for their efficient 
management in respect of the applicable legislation of the Union. 
 
5.  The quotas indicated in the table below will be managed by the European Commission on a 
first-come, first-served basis. The quantities exported from Singapore to the Union under 
these derogations will be calculated on the basis of the imports into the Union. 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 177  
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 178  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 179  
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 180  
ANNEX C 
 
 
MATERIALS EXCLUDED FROM CUMULATION 
UNDER PARAGRAPH 2 OF ARTICLE 3 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 181  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 182  
 
 
________________ 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 183  
ANNEX D 
 
 
PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 9 OF ARTICLE 3  
FOR WHICH MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN AN ASEAN COUNTRY  
SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN A PARTY 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 184  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 185  
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 186  
 
 
________________ 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 187  
ANNEX E 
 
 
TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION 
 
The origin declaration, the text of which is given below, must be made out in accordance with the 
footnotes. However, the footnotes do not have to be reproduced. 
 
Bulgarian version 
 
Износителят на продуктите, обхванати от този документ (разрешение № … от митница или от 
друг компетентен държавен орган(1)) декларира, че освен където ясно е отбелязано друго, 
тези продукти са с …(2) преференциален произход. 
 
Spanish version 
 
El exportador de los productos incluidos en el presente documento (autorización aduanera o de la 
autoridad gubernamental competente n° ...(1)) declara que, salvo indicación en sentido contrario, 
estos productos gozan de un origen preferencial ...(2). 
 
Czech version 
 
Vývozce výrobků uvedených v tomto dokumentu (číslo povolení celního nebo příslušného vládního 
orgánu ...(1)) prohlašuje, že kromě zřetelně označených mají tyto výrobky preferenční původ v ...(2). 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 188  
Danish version 
 
Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument, (toldmyndighedernes eller den 
kompetente offentlige myndigheds tilladelse nr. ...(1)) erklærer, at varerne, medmindre andet 
tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i ...(2). 
 
German version 
 
Der Ausführer (Ermächtigter Ausführer; Bewilligung der Zollbehörde oder der zuständigen 
Regierungsbehörde Nr. …(1)) der Waren, auf die sich dieses Handelspapier bezieht, erklärt, dass 
diese Waren, soweit nicht anders angegeben, präferenzbegünstigte Ursprungswaren ...(2) sind. 
 
Estonian version 
 
Käesoleva dokumendiga hõlmatud toodete eksportija (tolliameti või pädeva valitsusasutuse luba 
nr. ...(1)) deklareerib, et need tooted on ...(2) sooduspäritoluga, välja arvatud juhul kui on selgelt 
näidatud teisiti. 
 
Greek version 
 
Ο εξαγωγέας των προϊόντων που καλύπτονται από το παρόν έγγραφο (άδεια τελωνείου ή της 
καθύλην αρμόδιας αρχής, υπ΄αριθ. ...(1)) δηλώνει ότι, εκτός εάν δηλώνεται σαφώς άλλως, τα 
προϊόντα αυτά είναι προτιμησιακής καταγωγής ...(2). 
 
English version 
 
The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs or competent governmental 
authorisation No ...(1)) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are 
of ... preferential origin(2). 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 189  
French version 
 
L'exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (autorisation douanière ou de 
l'autorité gouvernementale compétente n° …(1)) déclare que, sauf indication claire du contraire, 
ces produits ont l'origine préférentielle ...(2). 
 
Croatian version 
 
Izvoznik proizvoda obuhvaćenih ovom ispravom (carinsko ovlaštenje ili ovlaštenje nadležnog 
državnog tijela br. ...(1)) izjavljuje da su, osim ako je drukčije izričito navedeno, ovi proizvodi ...(2) 
preferencijalnog podrijetla. 
 
Italian version 
 
L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale o 
dell'autorità governativa competente n. …(1)) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci 
sono di origine preferenziale ...(2). 
 
Latvian version 
 
Eksportētājs produktiem, kuri ietverti šajā dokumentā (muitas vai kompetentu valsts iestāžu 
pilnvara Nr. …(1)), deklarē, ka, izņemottur, kur ir citādi skaidri noteikts, šiem produktiem ir 
preferenciāla izcelsme no …(2). 
 
Lithuanian version 
 
Šiame dokumente išvardintų prekių eksportuotojas (muitinės arba kompetentingos viešosios 
valdžios institucijos liudijimo Nr. …(1)) deklaruoja, kad, jeigu kitaip nenurodyta, tai yra …(2) 
preferencinės kilmės prekės. 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 190  
Hungarian version 
 
A jelen okmányban szereplő áruk exportőre (vámfelhatalmazási szám: vagy az illetékes 
kormányzati szerv által kiadott engedély száma: …(1)) kijelentem, hogy egyértelmű eltérő jelzés 
hiányában az áruk preferenciális … származásúak(2). 
 
Maltese version 
 
L-esportatur tal-prodotti koperti b'dan id-dokument (awtorizzazzjoni kompetenti tal-gvern jew 
tad-dwana nru. …(1)) jiddikjara li, hlief fejn indikat b'mod car li mhux hekk, dawn il-prodotti huma 
ta' origini preferenzjali …(2). 
 
Dutch version 
 
De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning of 
vergunning van de competente overheidsinstantie nr. …(1)) verklaart dat, behoudens uitdrukkelijke 
andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële ... oorsprong zijn(2). 
 
Polish version 
 
Eksporter produktów objętych tym dokumentem (upoważnienie władz celnych lub upoważnienie 
właściwych władz nr …(1)) deklaruje, że z wyjątkiem gdzie jest to wyraźnie określone, produkty te 
mają …(2) preferencyjne pochodzenie. 
 
Portuguese version 
 
O abaixo assinado, exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização 
aduaneira ou da autoridade governamental competente n° …(1)) declara que, salvo indicação 
expressa em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial ...(2). 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 191  
Romanian version 
 
Exportatorul produselor ce fac obiectul acestui document (autorizaţia vamală sau a autorităţii 
guvernamentale competente nr. ...(1)) declară că, exceptând cazul în care în mod expres este 
indicat altfel, aceste produse sunt de origine preferenţială ...(2). 
 
Slovak version 
 
Vývozca výrobkov uvedených v tomto dokumente (číslo povolenia colnej správy alebo príslušného 
vládneho povolenia …(1)) vyhlasuje, že okrem zreteľne označených, majú tieto výrobky preferenčný 
pôvod v …(2). 
 
Slovenian version 
 
Izvoznik blaga, zajetega s tem dokumentom, (pooblastilo carinskih ali pristojnih vladnih organov 
št. …(1)) izjavlja, da, razen če ni drugače jasno navedeno, ima to blago preferencialno ...(2) poreklo. 
 
Finnish version 
 
Tässä asiakirjassa mainittujen tuotteiden viejä (tullin tai toimivaltaisen julkisen viranomaisen lupa 
nro ...(1)) ilmoittaa, että nämä tuotteet ovat, ellei toisin ole selvästi merkitty, etuuskohteluun 
oikeutettuja ... alkuperätuotteita(2). 
 
Swedish version 
 
Exportören av de varor som omfattas av detta dokument (tullmyndighetens tillstånd eller behörig 
statlig myndighet nr. …(1)) försäkrar att dessa varor, om inte annat tydligt markerats, har 
förmånsberättigande … ursprung.(2) 
 
 
 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 192  
……………………………………………………………............................................................(3) 
(Place and date) 
 
...……………………………………………………………………..............................................(4) 
(Signature of the exporter, in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to be indicated in clear script) 
 
________________ 
(1)  When the origin declaration is made out in the Union by an approved exporter, the 
authorisation number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space. When the 
origin declaration is not made out by an approved exporter, the words in brackets shall be 
omitted or the space left blank. 
When the origin declaration is made out by an exporter in Singapore, the Unique Entity 
Number must be entered in this space. 
(2)  Origin of products to be indicated. When the origin declaration relates to products 
originating in the Union, the exporter shall use the symbol "EU". When the origin declaration 
relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, the exporter must 
clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the 
symbol "CM". 
(3)  These indications may be omitted if the information is contained on the document itself. 
(4)  In cases where the exporter is not required to sign, the exemption of signature also implies 
the exemption of the name of the signatory. 
 
 
______________ 
 
EUSFTA Protocol 1 - 193  
JOINT DECLARATION  
CONCERNING THE PRINCIPALITY OF ANDORRA 
 
1.  Products originating in the Principality of Andorra falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the 
Harmonized System shall be accepted by Singapore as originating in the Union within the meaning 
of this Agreement. 
 
2.  Protocol 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purposes of defining the originating status of 
the abovementioned products. 
 
 
JOINT DECLARATION  
CONCERNING THE REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO 
 
1.  Products originating in the Republic of San Marino shall be accepted by Singapore as 
originating in the Union within the meaning of this Agreement. 
 
2.  Protocol 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purposes of defining the originating status of 
the abovementioned products. 
 
 
 
EU/SG/FTA/P1/JD/en 1  
JOINT DECLARATION  
CONCERNING THE REVISION OF THE RULES OF ORIGIN  
CONTAINED IN PROTOCOL 1 
 
1.  The Parties agree to review the rules of origin contained in Protocol 1 and discuss the 
necessary amendments upon request of either Party. 
 
2.  Annexes B to D to Protocol 1 will be adapted in accordance with the periodical changes to 
the Harmonized System. 
 
 
________________ 
 
EU/SG/FTA/P1/JD/en 2 