EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 1  Appendix 4-A-2   PRODUCT CATEGORIES  Cooking range intended for household use, namely, a device for cooking and includes separate stationary ovens and grills, cooking table cookers, hob elements, grills and griddles which form part of cooking ranges, and ovens and grills for installation in walls, except a cooking range having a mass of less than 18 kg.  Hairdryer, namely, an electrically operated appliance intended to be used for the drying of hair of persons and incorporating heating elements.  High-fidelity set, namely, an electronic device for reproduction of sounds, with little distortion, connected to the supply mains as the only energy source, intended for domestic and similar general indoor use with a rated supply voltage not exceeding 250 volts RMS at 50 Hz.  Audio product (other than a high-fidelity set), namely, an electronic device for the reproduction of sound, connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly.  Iron, namely, an electrically operated appliance with a heated soleplate for the ironing of clothes, for household and similar purposes.  EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 2  Kettle, namely, an electrically operated household appliance for the heating of water for consumption, having a rated capacity not exceeding 10 litres.  Microwave oven, namely, an electrically operated appliance for heating food and beverages using electromagnetic energy (microwaves) in one or more of the I.S.M. frequency bands between 300 MHz and 30 GHz, and intended for household use. These appliances may also incorporate a browning function.  Rice cooker, namely, an electrically operated household appliance for cooking rice.  Refrigerator, namely, a self-contained assembly consisting of a thermally insulated cabinet for the storage and preservation of foodstuffs above 0 °C (32 °F) and a refrigerating unit operating on the vapour compression principle that is arranged to extract heat from within the cabinet, with or without one or more freezer compartments.  Room air-conditioner, namely, a self-contained assembly designed as a unit, primarily for mounting in a window or through the wall or as a console. It is designed primarily to provide free delivery of conditioned air to an enclosed space, room or zone (conditioned space). It includes a prime source of refrigeration for cooling and dehumidification and a system for the circulation and the cleaning of air, and a drain arrangement for collecting or disposing any condensate. It may also include systems for humidifying, ventilating or exhausting air.  EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 3  Table or standing fan, namely, an electrically operated appliance for agitating air, with an associated regulator, intended for use on single-phase AC or DC circuits not exceeding 250 volts, and intended for household use and similar purposes.  Television or video display unit, namely, an electronic device for receiving and displaying information from a transmitting station or local source, connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly, and intended for domestic and similar general indoor use, other than a cathode ray tube television receiver.  Vacuum cleaner, namely, a machine which removes dirt and dust by the suction produced by a motor-driven air pump, and intended for household use and similar purposes.  Washing machine, namely, an electrically operated appliance intended for washing clothes and textiles (whether or not with a mechanism for water heating), for extracting water from clothes or for drying clothes.  Table lamp or standing lamp, namely, a portable general purpose luminaire, other than a hand lamp, for use with tungsten filament, tubular fluorescent or other discharge lamps, connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly.  Toaster, grill, roaster, hotplate and similar appliances, namely, electric appliances connected to the supply mains, which make use of direct or indirect heat (e.g. heated medium such as air and cooking oil) for food preparation and intended for household use.  EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 4  Wall fan or ceiling fan, namely, an electric fan and its associated regulator intended, for mounting on the wall or ceiling, and for use on a single phase AC or DC circuit not exceeding 250 volts for household and similar purposes.  Adaptor, namely, a device designed to supply AC or DC power from an AC or DC source, either by itself or as part of an accessory, for uses such as computers, telecommunication equipment, home entertainment equipment or toys.  Coffee maker, slow cooker, steam boat and similar appliances, namely, electrically operated appliances that heats up water to high temperatures in the course of food and beverage preparation.  Laser disc set, namely, an electronic device for video recording and play-back or for play-back only, connected to the supply mains, either directly or indirectly, and intended for domestic and similar general indoor use, other than a laser disc (LD) player or video.  Mixer, blender, mincer and similar appliances, namely, electrically operated machines for food and beverage preparation and intended for household use.  Air cooler, namely, an electrically operated appliance for agitating the air equipped to use water as a cooling medium and its associated regulator intended for use on single phase AC and DC circuits not exceeding 250 volts for household and similar purposes.  Home computer system (inclusive of monitor, printer, speaker and other mains operated accessories), namely, a microprocessor based data system with compact, local computing and calculating power on high definition graphics and with flexible data communication interfacing.  EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 5  Decorative lighting fixture, namely, lighting chains fitted with a series or parallel connected incandescent lamps for either indoor or outdoor use on supply voltages not exceeding 250 volts.  3-pin rectangular type 13-ampere plug, namely, a portable fused device having projecting pins designed to engage with the contacts of a corresponding socket-outlet. A plug also incorporates a means for the electrical connection and the mechanical retention of a suitable flexible cord.  Fuse (13-ampere or less) for use in a plug, namely, a device that, by the fusion of one or more of its specially designed and proportioned components, opens the circuit in which it is inserted and breaks the current when this exceeds a given value for a sufficient time. The fuse comprises all the parts that form the complete device.  3-pin round type 15-ampere plug, namely, a device carrying 3 metallic plug pins substantially cylindrical in form, intended for engagements with corresponding socket contacts, arranged for connection to a suitable flexible cord.  Multi-way adaptor, namely, an adaptor having more than one set of socket contacts (the socket contacts may or may not be of the same type or rating as the plug pin portion).  3-pin portable socket-outlet, namely, an accessory having a set of 3 socket-contacts designed to engage with the pins of a corresponding plug and having means for the electrical connection of appropriate cables or flexible cords, for connection to, or integral with, a flexible cord, and which can be easily moved from one place to another while connected to the supply.  EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 6  Portable cable reel, namely, a device comprising a flexible cable or cord attached to a reel, so constructed that the flexible cable may be completely wound onto the reel, and provided with a plug and one or more socket outlets.  Instantaneous electric water heater, namely, an electrically operated stationary appliance for household and similar purposes and intended for heating water below boiling temperature, with its rated voltage not more than 250 V for single-phase appliances and 480 V for other appliances.  Mains pressure electric storage water heater, namely, an electrically operated stationary appliance for household and similar purposes, and intended for storing and heating water below boiling temperature, with its rated voltage not more than 250 V for single-phase appliances and 480 V for other appliances.  Residual Current Circuit Breaker (RCCB), namely, a device intended to protect persons against indirect contact, the exposed conductive parts of the installation being connected to an appropriate earth electrode.  3-pin 13-ampere socket-outlet, namely, a 13 A shuttered socket-outlet in single or multiple arrangements with associated controlling switches, for flush mounting in suitable box or for surface or panel mounting. The socket-outlet is suitable for the connection of portable appliances, sound-vision equipment, luminaries, etc., in AC circuits only operating at voltage not exceeding 250 V RMS at 50 Hz.  EUSFTA Appendix 4-A-2- 7  3-pin round type 15-ampere socket-outlet, namely, a 15 A shuttered socket-outlet which contains a switch connected between the current carrying contact of the socket-outlet and the relevant supply terminal, for flush mounting in suitable box or for surface or panel mounting. The socket-outlet is suitable for the connection of electrical appliances in AC circuits only operating at voltage not exceeding 250 V RMS at 50 Hz.  Domestic electric wall switch, namely, a manually operated general purpose switch for AC only, with a rated voltage not exceeding 440 V and a rated current not exceeding 63 A, intended for household and similar fixed-electrical installations, either indoors or outdoors.  Ballast for tubular fluorescent lamp, namely, a unit inserted between the supply and one or more fluorescent lamps which, by means of inductance, capacitance, or a combination of inductance and capacitance or electronic circuitry, serves mainly to limit the current of the lamp(s) to the required value.  Isolating transformer for downlight fitting, namely, a transformer with input and output windings of which are electrically separated to limit hazards due to accidental simultaneous contact with earth and live parts or metal parts which may become live in the event of an insulation failure.    