Part 5 
 
Section 1 
Notes for Schedule of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
 
1.  For the purposes of Article 16, the following categories 
indicated in Column 4 in the Schedule of the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic, in Section 2 of this Part, shall apply: 
 
(a)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “B” shall be 
eliminated  in  accordance  with  the  following 
schedule; 
 
* The Lao People’s Democratic Republic shall, before 1 January 
2023, notify the other Parties in writing customs duty to be 
applied. 
 
(b)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “C” shall 
apply at the Base Rate as from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement;   
 
(c)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “R” shall be reduced in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set out in the note in Column 5 in the Schedule of 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, in Section 
2 of this Part; and 
 
(d)  the originating goods classified under the tariff 
lines indicated with “X” shall be excluded from any 
tariff commitment referred to in subparagraphs (a) 
through (c). 
 
2.  The Lao People’s Democratic Republic shall reduce the 
rate of customs duty to not more than 5.0 per cent for the 
originating goods of at least 40 per cent of the tariff lines 
indicated with “A” and “B” by 1 April 2021.  
 
3.  The Lao People’s Democratic Republic shall eliminate 
customs duties for the originating goods of at least 90 per cent 
of the tariff lines indicated with “A” and “B” by 1 April 2023. 
 
4.  The terms and conditions in the following note shall apply 
to originating goods specified with the letter (a) in Column 
5 in the Schedule of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, in 
Section 2 of this Part. 
 
The rate of customs duty shall be reduced in accordance 
with the following schedule: 
 
(i)  Base Rate, as from the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii)  5.0  per  cent,  as  from  the  first  day  of  the 
nineteenth year. 
 
5.  For the purposes of this Part, the term “year” means, with 
respect to the first year, the period from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement until the coming 31 March and, with 
respect to each subsequent year, the twelve-month period which 
starts on 1 April of that year. 