Part 3 
 
Section 1 
Notes for Schedule of the Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
1.  For the purposes of Article 16, the following categories 
indicated in Column 4 in the Schedule of the Kingdom of Cambodia, 
in Section 2 of this Part, shall apply: 
   
(a)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “A” shall be 
eliminated as from the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “B” shall be 
eliminated  in  accordance  with  the  following 
schedule; 
 
* The Kingdom of Cambodia shall, before 1 January 2023, notify 
the other Parties in writing of the rate of customs duty to be 
applied. 
 
(c)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “C” shall apply at the Base Rate as from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement; 
 
(d)  customs duties on originating goods classified 
under the tariff lines indicated with “R” shall be 
reduced in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set out in the note indicated in Column 5 in the 
Schedule of the Kingdom of Cambodia, in Section 2 
of this Part; and 
 
(e)  the originating goods classified under the tariff 
lines indicated with “X” shall be excluded from any 
tariff commitment referred to in subparagraphs (a) 
through (d). 
 
2.  The Kingdom of Cambodia shall reduce the rate of customs 
duty to not more than 5.0 per cent for the originating goods 
of at least 40 per cent of the tariff lines indicated with “A” 
and “B” by 1 January 2021.   
 
3.  The Kingdom of Cambodia shall eliminate customs duties 
for the originating goods of at least 90 per cent of the tariff 
lines indicated with “A” and “B” by 1 January 2023. 
 
4.  The terms and conditions in the following note shall apply 
to originating goods specified with the letter (a) in Column 
5 in the Schedule of the Kingdom of Cambodia, in Section 2 of 
this Part. 
 
The rate of customs duty shall be reduced in accordance 
with the following schedule: 
 
(i)  Base Rate, as from the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii)  5.0  per  cent,  as  from  the  first  day  of  the 
nineteenth year. 
 
5.  For the purposes of this Part, the term “year” means, with 
respect to the first year, the period from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement until the coming 31 December and, 
with respect to each subsequent year, the twelve-month period 
which starts on 1 January of that year. 
 
  
 