Article 12 
Communications 
 
  Each Party shall designate a contact point to 
facilitate communications among the Parties on, except as 
otherwise provided for in Article 61, any matter relating 
to this Agreement.  All official communications in this 
regard shall be done in the English language. 
 
Chapter 2 
Trade in Goods 
 
Article 13 
Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
  (a)  “customs duties” means any customs or import duty 
and a charge of any kind imposed in connection 
with the importation of a good, but does not 
include any: 
 
(i)  charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed 
consistently with the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Article III of GATT 1994, in 
respect of the like domestic goods or in 
respect of goods from which the imported 
goods have been manufactured or produced in 
whole or in part; 
 
(ii)  anti-dumping or countervailing duty applied 
consistently with the provisions of Article 
VI of GATT 1994, the Agreement on 
Implementation of Article VI of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, and the 
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing 
Measures in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; 
or 
 
(iii)  fee or any charge commensurate with the cost 
of services rendered; 
 
  (b)  “customs laws” means such laws and regulations 
administered and enforced by the customs 
authority of each Party concerning the 
importation, exportation, and transit of goods, 
as they relate to customs duties, charges, and 
other taxes, or to prohibitions, restrictions, 
and other similar controls with respect to the 
movement of controlled items across the boundary 
of the customs territory of each Party; 
   (c)  “customs value of goods” means the value of goods 
for the purposes of levying ad valorem customs 
duties on imported goods; 
 
  (d)  “domestic industry” means the producers as a 
whole of the like or directly competitive goods 
operating in a Party, or those whose collective 
output of the like or directly competitive goods 
constitutes a major proportion of the total 
domestic production of those goods; 
 
  (e)  “originating goods” means goods that qualify as 
originating in accordance with the provisions of 
Chapter 3; 
 
  (f)  “serious injury” means a significant overall 
impairment in the position of a domestic 
industry; and 
 
  (g)  “threat of serious injury” means serious injury 
that, on the basis of facts and not merely on 
allegation, conjecture or remote possibility, is 
clearly imminent. 
 
Article 14 
Classification of Goods 
 
  The classification of goods in trade between the 
Parties shall be in conformity with the Harmonized System. 
 
 
Article 15 
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation 
 
  Each Party shall accord national treatment to the 
goods of the other Parties in accordance with Article III 
of GATT 1994, which to this end is incorporated into and 
forms part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 16 
Elimination or Reduction of Customs Duties 
 
1.  Except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, 
each Party shall, in accordance with its Schedule in Annex 
1, eliminate or reduce its customs duties on originating 
goods of the other Parties.  Such elimination or reduction 
shall be applied to originating goods of all the other 
Parties on a non-discriminatory basis. 
 
2.  The Parties shall endeavour to take further steps 
towards liberalisation of trade in goods through 
unilateral, bilateral or regional efforts consistent with 
GATT 1994. 
  
3.  The Parties reaffirm that, as is provided for in 
Article 7, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to 
prevent a Party which is a party to the Basel Convention on 
the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes 
and their Disposal or other relevant international 
agreements from adopting or enforcing any measure in 
relation to hazardous wastes or hazardous substances based 
on its laws and regulations, in accordance with such 
international agreements. 
 
Article 17 
Customs Valuation 
 
  For the purposes of determining the customs value of 
goods traded between the Parties, the provisions of Part I 
of the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to 
the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Agreement on Customs Valuation”) shall apply, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
Note:  In the case of the Kingdom of Cambodia, the 
Agreement on Customs Valuation, as implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on 
the Accession of the Kingdom of Cambodia to the 
World Trade Organization, shall apply, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
Article 18 
Non-tariff Measures 
 
1.  Each Party shall not institute or maintain any non-
tariff measures including quantitative restrictions on the 
importation of any good of the other Parties or on the 
exportation or sale for export of any good destined for 
another Party, except the same measures as those permitted 
under the WTO Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure transparency of its non-tariff 
measures permitted under paragraph 1, including 
quantitative restrictions.  Each Party which is a member of 
the World Trade Organization shall ensure full compliance 
with the obligations under the WTO Agreement with a view to 
minimising possible distortions to trade to the maximum 
extent possible. 
 
Article 19 
Modification of Concessions 
 
1.  The Parties shall not nullify or impair any of the 
concessions under this Agreement, except in cases provided 
for in this Agreement. 
  
2.  Any Party may negotiate with any interested Party to 
modify or withdraw its concession made under this 
Agreement.  In such negotiations, which may include 
compensatory adjustment with respect to other goods, the 
Parties concerned shall maintain a general level of 
reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions not less 
favourable to trade than that provided for in this 
Agreement prior to such negotiations.  In reflecting the 
results of such negotiations to this Agreement, Article 77 
shall apply. 
 
Article 20 
Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  A Party which is a member of the World Trade 
Organization may apply a safeguard measure to an 
originating good of the other Parties in accordance with 
Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Safeguards in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Agreement on Safeguards”), or Article 5 of the 
Agreement on Agriculture in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as “Agreement on Agriculture”).  
Any action taken pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and 
the Agreement on Safeguards, or Article 5 of the Agreement 
on Agriculture shall not be subject to Chapter 9 of this 
Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party shall be free to apply a safeguard measure 
provided for under this Article (hereinafter referred to as 
“an AJCEP safeguard measure”), to the minimum extent 
necessary to prevent or remedy the serious injury to a 
domestic industry of that Party and to facilitate 
adjustment, if as an effect of the obligations incurred by 
that Party under this Agreement, including tariff 
concessions, or if as a result of unforeseen developments 
and of the effects of the obligations incurred by that 
Party under this Agreement, an originating good of the 
other Parties is being imported in such increased 
quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic 
production, and under such conditions as to cause or 
threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry 
of the importing Party that produces like or directly 
competitive goods in the importing Party. 
 
 3.  An AJCEP safeguard measure shall not be applied 
against an originating good of a Party which is an ASEAN 
Member State, as long as its share of imports of the good 
concerned in the importing Party does not exceed three (3) 
per cent of the total imports from the other Parties, 
provided that those Parties with less than three (3) per 
cent import share collectively account for not more than 
nine (9) per cent of total imports of the good concerned 
from the other Parties. 
 
4.  A Party shall not apply an AJCEP safeguard measure to 
an originating good imported up to the limit of quota 
quantities granted under tariff rate quotas applied in 
accordance with its Schedule in Annex 1. 
 
5.  A Party applying an AJCEP safeguard measure may: 
 
  (a)  suspend the further reduction of any customs duty 
on the originating good of the other Parties 
provided for under this Chapter; or 
 
  (b)  increase the customs duty on the originating good 
of the other Parties to a level not to exceed the 
lesser of: 
 
(i)  the applied most-favoured-nation rate 
(hereinafter referred to as “applied MFN 
rate”) on the good in effect on the day when 
the AJCEP safeguard measure is applied; and 
 
(ii)  the applied MFN rate on the good in effect 
on the day immediately preceding the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement pursuant 
to paragraph 1 of Article 79. 
 
6.  (a)  A Party may apply an AJCEP safeguard measure only 
after an investigation has been carried out by 
the competent authorities of that Party in 
accordance with the same procedures as those 
provided for in Article 3 and paragraph 2 of 
Article 4 of the Agreement on Safeguards. 
 
  (b)  The investigation referred to in subparagraph (a) 
shall be completed within one (1) year following 
its date of initiation. 
 
7.  The following conditions and limitations shall apply 
with regard to an AJCEP safeguard measure:  
 
  (a)  A Party shall immediately give a written notice 
to the other Parties upon: 
  
(i)  initiating an investigation referred to in 
subparagraph 6(a) relating to serious 
injury, or threat of serious injury, and the 
reasons for it; 
 
(ii)  making a finding of serious injury or threat 
of serious injury caused by increased 
imports; and 
 
(iii)  taking a decision to apply or extend an 
AJCEP safeguard measure. 
 
  (b)  The Party giving the written notice referred to 
in subparagraph (a) shall provide the other 
Parties with all pertinent information, which 
shall include: 
 
(i)  in the written notice referred to in 
subparagraph (a)(i), the reason for the 
initiation of the investigation, a precise 
description of an originating good subject 
to the investigation and its heading or 
subheading of the Harmonized System, on 
which the Schedules in Annex 1 are based, 
the period subject to the investigation and 
the date of initiation of the investigation; 
and 
 
(ii)  in the written notice referred to in 
subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (iii), the 
evidence of serious injury or threat of 
serious injury caused by the increased 
imports of the originating good, a precise 
description of the originating good subject 
to the proposed safeguard measure and its 
heading or subheading of the Harmonized 
System, on which the Schedules in Annex 1 
are based, a precise description of the 
AJCEP safeguard measure, the proposed date 
of its introduction and its expected 
duration. 
 
  (c)  A Party proposing to apply or extend an AJCEP 
safeguard measure shall provide adequate 
opportunity for prior consultations with those 
Parties which would be affected by the AJCEP 
safeguard measure with a view to reviewing the 
information arising from the investigation 
referred to in subparagraph (a), exchanging views 
on the AJCEP safeguard measure and reaching an 
agreement on compensation set out in paragraph 8. 
 
   (d)  No AJCEP safeguard measure shall be maintained 
except to the extent and for such time as may be 
necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury and 
to facilitate adjustment, provided that such time 
shall not exceed a period of three (3) years.  An 
AJCEP safeguard measure may be extended, provided 
that the conditions set out in this Article are 
met.  The total duration of the AJCEP safeguard 
measure, including any extensions thereof, shall 
not exceed four (4) years.  In order to 
facilitate adjustment in a situation where the 
expected duration of an AJCEP safeguard measure 
is over one (1) year, the Party maintaining the 
AJCEP safeguard measure shall progressively 
liberalise the AJCEP safeguard measure at regular 
intervals during the period of application.  
 
  (e)  No AJCEP safeguard measure shall be applied again 
to the import of a particular originating good 
which has been subject to such an AJCEP safeguard 
measure, for a period of time equal to the 
duration of the previous safeguard measure or one 
(1) year, whichever is longer. 
 
  (f)  Upon the termination of an AJCEP safeguard 
measure on a good, the rate of the customs duty 
for that good shall be the rate that, in 
accordance with the Schedule of the Party 
applying the AJCEP safeguard measure set out in 
Annex 1, would have been in effect had the AJCEP 
safeguard measure not been applied. 
 
8.  (a)  A Party proposing to apply or extend an AJCEP 
safeguard measure shall provide to the other 
Parties mutually agreed adequate means of trade 
compensation in the form of substantially 
equivalent level of concessions or other 
obligations to that existing under this Agreement 
between the Party applying the AJCEP safeguard 
measure and the exporting Parties which would be 
affected by such a measure.  
 
  (b)  In seeking compensation provided for in 
subparagraph (a), the Parties shall hold 
consultations in the Joint Committee.  Any 
proceedings arising from such consultations shall 
be completed within thirty (30) days from the 
date on which the AJCEP safeguard measure was 
applied. 
   (c)  If no agreement on the compensation is reached 
within the time frame specified in subparagraph 
(b), the Parties other than the one applying the 
AJCEP safeguard measure shall be free to suspend 
concessions of customs duties under this 
Agreement, which is substantially equivalent to 
the AJCEP safeguard measure, on originating goods 
of the Party applying the AJCEP safeguard 
measure.  The Parties may suspend the concessions 
only for the minimum period necessary to achieve 
the substantially equivalent effects and only 
while the AJCEP safeguard measure is maintained.  
The right of suspension provided for in this 
subparagraph shall not be exercised for the first 
two (2) years that an AJCEP safeguard measure is 
in effect, provided that the AJCEP safeguard 
measure has been applied as a result of an 
absolute increase in imports and that such an 
AJCEP safeguard measure conforms to the 
provisions of this Article. 
 
9.  (a)  A Party applying a safeguard measure in 
connection with an importation of an originating 
good of another Party in accordance with Article 
XIX of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Safeguards, 
or Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture, 
shall not apply the AJCEP safeguard measure to 
that importation. 
 
  (b)  The period of application of the AJCEP safeguard 
measure referred to in subparagraph 7(d) shall 
not be interrupted by the Party’s non-application 
of the AJCEP safeguard measure in accordance with 
subparagraph (a). 
 
10.  (a)  Within ten (10) years after the entry into force 
of this Agreement pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
Article 79, the Parties shall review this Article 
with a view to determining whether there is a 
need to maintain the AJCEP safeguard mechanism. 
 
  (b)  If the Parties do not agree to remove the AJCEP 
safeguard mechanism during the review pursuant to 
subparagraph (a), the Parties shall thereafter 
conduct reviews to determine the necessity of the 
AJCEP safeguard mechanism, in conjunction with 
the general review pursuant to Article 75. 
 
 11.  (a)  In critical circumstances, where delay would 
cause damage which it would be difficult to 
repair, a Party may apply a provisional AJCEP 
safeguard measure, which shall take the form of 
the measure set out in subparagraph 5(a) or 5(b), 
pursuant to a preliminary determination that 
there is clear evidence that increased imports of 
an originating good have caused or are 
threatening to cause serious injury to a domestic 
industry. 
 
  (b)  A Party shall give a written notice to the other 
Parties prior to applying a provisional AJCEP 
safeguard measure.  Consultations by the Parties 
in the Joint Committee on the application of the 
provisional AJCEP safeguard measure shall be 
initiated immediately after the provisional AJCEP 
safeguard measure is applied. 
 
  (c)  The duration of a provisional AJCEP safeguard 
measure shall not exceed two hundred (200) days.  
During that period, the pertinent requirements of 
paragraph 6 shall be met.  The duration of the 
provisional AJCEP safeguard measure shall be 
counted as a part of the period referred to in 
subparagraph 7(d). 
 
  (d)  Paragraph 3 and subparagraph 7(f) shall apply, 
mutatis mutandis, to the provisional AJCEP 
safeguard measure.  
 
  (e)  The customs duty imposed as a result of the 
provisional AJCEP safeguard measure shall be 
refunded if the subsequent investigation referred 
to in subparagraph 6(a) does not determine that 
increased imports of the originating good have 
caused or threatened to cause serious injury to a 
domestic industry. 
 
12.  All official communications and documentations 
exchanged among the Parties relating to an AJCEP safeguard 
measure shall be in writing and shall be in the English 
language. 
 Article 21 
Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent 
a Party from taking any measure for balance-of-payments 
purposes.  A Party taking such measure shall do so in 
accordance with the conditions established under Article 
XII of GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance-of-
Payments Provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and 
Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement. 
 
Article 22 
Customs Procedures 
 
1.  Each Party shall endeavour to apply its customs 
procedures in a predictable, consistent and transparent 
manner. 
 
2.  Recognising the importance of improving transparency 
in the area of customs procedures, each Party, subject to 
its laws and regulations, and available resources, shall 
endeavour to provide information relating to specific 
matters raised by interested persons of the Parties 
pertaining to its customs laws.  Each Party shall endeavour 
to supply not only such information but also other 
pertinent information which it considers the interested 
persons should be made aware of. 
 
3.  For prompt customs clearance of goods traded among the 
Parties, each Party, recognising the significant role of 
customs authorities and the importance of customs 
procedures in promoting trade facilitation, shall endeavour 
to: 
 
  (a)  simplify its customs procedures; and 
 
  (b)  harmonise its customs procedures, to the extent 
possible, with relevant international standards 
and recommended practices such as those made 
under the auspices of the Customs Co-operation 
Council. 
 
Chapter 3 
Rules of Origin 
 
Article 23 
Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
  (a)  “exporter” means a natural or juridical person 
located in an exporting Party who exports a good 
from the exporting Party; 
 