Article 42 
Non-application of Chapter 9 
 
  The dispute settlement procedures provided for in 
Chapter 9 shall not apply to this Chapter. 
 
CHAPTER 5 
Standards, Technical Regulations and 
Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
Article 43 
Objectives 
 
  The objectives of this Chapter are to promote trade 
among the Parties by: 
 
  (a)  ensuring that standards, technical regulations 
and conformity assessment procedures do not 
create unnecessary obstacles to trade; 
 
  (b)  promoting mutual understanding of the standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures in each Party; 
 
  (c)  strengthening information exchange and 
cooperation among the Parties in relation to the 
preparation, adoption and application of 
standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures; 
 
  (d)  strengthening cooperation among the Parties in 
the work of international bodies related to 
standardisation and conformity assessments; and  
 
  (e)  providing a framework to realise these 
objectives. 
 
Article 44 
Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to standards, technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures as defined 
in the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade in Annex 1A 
to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “TBT 
Agreement”). 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to purchasing 
specifications prepared by governmental bodies for 
production or consumption requirements of governmental 
bodies and sanitary and phytosanitary measures as defined 
in Annex A of the SPS Agreement. 
 
 3.  Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the right of a 
Party to prepare, adopt and apply standards and technical 
regulations, to the extent necessary, to fulfil a 
legitimate objective.  Such legitimate objectives are, 
inter alia, national security requirements; the prevention 
of deceptive practices; protection of human health or 
safety, animal or plant life or health, or the environment.  
In pursuance of this, each Party retains all authority to 
interpret its laws, regulations and administrative 
provisions. 
 
Article 45 
Reaffirmation of Rights and Obligations 
 
  The Parties reaffirm the rights and obligations 
relating to standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures under the TBT Agreement among those 
Parties that are parties to the said Agreement. 
 
Article 46 
Cooperation 
 
1.  For the purposes of ensuring that standards, technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures do not 
create unnecessary obstacles to trade in goods among the 
Parties, the Parties shall, where possible, cooperate in 
the field of standards, technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures. 
 
2.  The forms of cooperation pursuant to paragraph 1 may 
include the following:  
 
  (a)  conducting joint studies and holding seminars, in 
order to enhance mutual understanding of 
standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures in each Party; 
 
  (b)  exchanging information on standards, technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures; 
 
  (c)  developing and implementing joint programmes for 
building and/or upgrading capacity in the Parties 
for advancement of activities within the scope of 
the TBT Agreement; 
 
  (d)  encouraging the bodies responsible for standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures in each Party to cooperate on matters 
of mutual interest; 
   (e)  contributing, where appropriate, jointly to the 
activities related to standards, technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures 
in international and regional fora; and 
 
  (f)  jointly identifying work in the field of 
standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures, where appropriate, to 
avoid unnecessary obstacle to trade among the 
Parties.  
 
3.  The implementation of this Article shall be subject to 
the availability of appropriated funds and the applicable 
laws and regulations of each Party. 
 
Article 47 
Enquiry Points 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate an enquiry point which 
shall have the responsibility to coordinate the 
implementation of this Chapter. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide the other Parties with the 
name of its designated enquiry point and the contact 
details of relevant officials in that organisation 
including information on telephone, facsimile and e-mail 
and other relevant details.  
 
3.  Each Party shall notify the other Parties promptly of 
any change of its enquiry point or any amendments to the 
information of the relevant officials. 
 
Article 48 
Sub-Committee on Standards, Technical Regulations 
and Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Standards, 
Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures 
(hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Sub-
Committee”) shall be established pursuant to Article 11. 
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to: 
 
  (a)  coordinate cooperation pursuant to Article 46; 
 
  (b)  identify mutually agreed priority sectors for 
enhanced cooperation, including giving favourable 
consideration to any proposal made by a Party; 
   (c)  establish work programmes in mutually agreed 
priority areas to facilitate the acceptance of 
conformity assessment results and equivalence of 
technical regulations; 
 
  (d)  monitor the progress of work programmes; 
 
  (e)  review the implementation and operation of this 
Chapter; 
 
  (f)  facilitate technical consultations; 
 
  (g)  report, where appropriate, its findings to the 
Joint Committee; and 
 
  (h)  carry out other functions as may be delegated by 
the Joint Committee pursuant to Article 11. 
 
3.  The Sub-Committee shall meet at such venues and times 
as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
4.  The Parties shall coordinate their undertakings with 
the activities conducted in the bilateral, regional and 
multilateral context, with the objective of avoiding 
unnecessary duplication and maximising efficiency of 
efforts of the Parties in this field. 
 
5.  The Sub-Committee shall be: 
 
  (a)  composed of representatives of the Governments of 
the Parties; and 
 
  (b)  co-chaired by an official of the Government of 
Japan and an official of one of the Governments 
of the ASEAN Member States, which are the 
Parties. 
 
Article 49 
Non-application of Chapter 9 
 
  The dispute settlement procedures provided for in 
Chapter 9 shall not apply to this Chapter. 
 
Chapter 6 
Trade in Services 
 
Article 50 
Trade in Services 
 
1.  Each Party shall endeavour to, in accordance with its 
laws, regulations and policies, take further steps towards 
the expansion of trade in services among or between the 
Parties consistent with GATS. 
 