Annex 4 
Operational Certification Procedures 
 
Rule 1 
Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Annex, the term: 
 
  (a)  “competent governmental authority” means the 
authority that, according to the laws and 
regulations of each Party, is responsible for the 
issuing of a certificate of origin (hereinafter 
referred to as “CO”) or for the designation of 
entities or bodies issuing a CO; and 
 
  (b)  “relevant authority” means the authority of the 
importing Party, other than the customs authority 
of that Party, that is responsible for 
verification and verification visit in the 
importing Party. 
 
Rule 2 
Issuance of Certificate of Origin 
 
1.  The competent governmental authority of the exporting 
Party shall, upon request made in writing by the exporter 
or its authorised agent, issue a CO or, under the 
authorisation given in accordance with the applicable laws 
and regulations of the exporting Party, may designate other 
entities or bodies (hereinafter referred to as “designees”) 
to issue a CO. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide the other Parties with a list 
of names and addresses, and a list of specimen signatures 
and specimen of official seals or impressions of stamps for 
the issuance of a CO, of its competent governmental 
authority and, if any, its designees. 
 
3.  Any CO bearing a signature not included in the list 
referred to in paragraph 2 shall not be valid. 
 
4.  Where the exporter of a good is not the producer of 
the good in the exporting Party, the exporter may request a 
CO on the basis of: 
 
  (a)  a declaration provided by the exporter to the 
competent governmental authority or its designees 
based on the information provided by the producer 
of the good to that exporter; or 
   (b)  a declaration voluntarily provided by the 
producer of the good directly to the competent 
governmental authority or its designees by the 
request of the exporter.  
 
5.  A CO shall be issued only after the exporter who 
requests for its issuance, or the producer of the good in 
the exporting Party referred to in subparagraph 4(b), 
proves to the competent governmental authority or its 
designees that the good to be exported qualifies as an 
originating good of the exporting Party. 
 
6.  If, after the issuance of the CO, the exporter or 
producer referred to in paragraph 5 knows that such a good 
does not qualify as an originating good of the exporting 
Party, they shall notify the competent governmental 
authority or its designees in writing and without delay, 
subject to the applicable laws and regulations of the 
exporting Party. 
 
7.  The competent governmental authority of the exporting 
Party or its designees shall, if they receive notification 
in accordance with paragraph 6, or if they have knowledge 
after the issuance of the CO that the good does not qualify 
as an originating good of the exporting Party, cancel the 
CO and promptly notify the cancellation to the exporter to 
whom the CO has been issued, and to the customs authority 
of the importing Party, except in the case where the 
exporter has returned the CO to the competent governmental 
authority of the exporting Party. 
 
8.  The format of the CO and its contents shall be in the 
English language and shall include minimum data specified 
in the Attachment to this Annex. 
 
Rule 3 
Presentation of Certificate of Origin 
 
1.  For the purposes of claiming preferential tariff 
treatment, the following shall be submitted to the customs 
authority of the importing Party by the importer: 
 
  (a)  a valid CO; and 
 
  (b)  other documents as required in accordance with 
the laws and regulations of the importing Party 
(e.g. invoices, including third country invoices, 
and a through bill of lading issued in the 
exporting Party). 
 
 2.  A CO shall not be required for an importation of a 
consignment of originating goods of the exporting Party 
whose aggregate customs value does not exceed two hundred 
United States dollars (USD200) or its equivalent amount in 
the Party’s currency, or such higher amount as the 
importing Party may establish. 
 
3.  Where an originating good of the exporting Party is 
imported through one or more of the Parties other than the 
exporting Party and the importing Party, or non-Parties, 
the importing Party may require importers who claim 
preferential tariff treatment for the good to submit: 
 
  (a)  a copy of through bill of lading; or 
 
  (b)  a certificate or any other information given by 
the customs authorities of such one or more 
Parties or non-Parties, or other relevant 
entities, which proves that the good has not 
undergone operations other than unloading, 
reloading and any other operation to preserve it 
in good condition in those Parties or non-
Parties. 
 
4.  (a)  Notwithstanding paragraph 5 of Rule 2, where an 
originating good, for which a CO (hereinafter 
referred to in this paragraph as “original CO”) 
was issued by the competent governmental 
authority or its designees of the exporting 
Party, is to be exported from the importing Party 
to another Party, the competent governmental 
authority or its designees of the importing Party 
may issue a back-to-back CO as a new CO for the 
originating good, if a request is made by the 
exporter in the importing Party or its authorised 
agent with presentation of the valid original CO. 
 
  (b)  Where a back-to-back CO is issued in accordance 
with subparagraph (a), “an originating good of 
the exporting Party” referred to in Chapter 3 and 
this Annex shall be construed as an originating 
good of the Party whose competent governmental 
authority or its designees has issued the 
original CO. 
 
Rule 4 
Validity of Certificate of Origin 
 
1.  A CO shall be submitted to the customs authority of 
the importing Party within one (1) year from the date of 
issuance by the competent governmental authority of the 
exporting Party or its designees. 
 
 2.  Where the CO is submitted to the customs authority of 
the importing Party after the expiration of the period for 
its submission provided for in paragraph 1, that CO shall 
be accepted when the failure to observe such a requirement 
results from force majeure or other valid causes beyond the 
control of the exporter or importer. 
 
3.  An issued CO shall be applicable to a single 
importation of an originating good of the exporting Party 
into the importing Party. 
 
Rule 5 
Record Keeping 
 
1.  Each Party shall, in accordance with its laws and 
regulations, ensure that the exporter to whom a CO has been 
issued or the producer of a good in the exporting Party 
referred to in subparagraph 4(b) of Rule 2 keeps records 
relating to the origin of the good.  For the purposes of 
this Agreement, the exporter or producer shall keep these 
records for three (3) years after the date on which the CO 
was issued. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that its competent 
governmental authority or its designees shall keep a record 
of the issued CO for a period of three (3) years after the 
date on which the CO was issued.  Such record includes all 
supporting documents presented to prove the qualification 
as an originating good of the exporting Party. 
 
Rule 6 
Verification 
 
1.  For the purposes of determining whether a good 
imported from another Party and claimed for preferential 
tariff treatment qualifies as an originating good of that 
Party under this Agreement, the customs authority or the 
relevant authority of the importing Party may request 
information relating to the origin of the good, provided 
that such a request is made to the competent governmental 
authority of the exporting Party on the basis of the CO. 
 
 2.  For the purposes of paragraph 1, the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party shall, in 
accordance with its laws and regulations, provide the 
information requested in a period not exceeding three (3) 
months after the date of receipt of the request.  If the 
customs authority or the relevant authority of the 
importing Party considers necessary, it may request 
additional information relating to the origin of the good.  
If additional information is requested by the customs 
authority or the relevant authority of the importing Party, 
the competent governmental authority of the exporting Party 
shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations, provide 
the information requested in a period not exceeding three 
(3) months after the date of receipt of the request for 
additional information. 
 
3.  For the purposes of paragraph 2, the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party may request 
the exporter to whom the CO has been issued, or the 
producer of the good in the exporting Party referred to in 
subparagraph 4(b) of Rule 2, to provide the former with the 
information requested. 
 
4.  The request for information in accordance with 
paragraph 1 shall not preclude the use of a verification 
visit provided for in Rule 7. 
 
5.  During the procedures provided for in this Rule and 
Rule 7, the customs authority of the importing Party may 
suspend the preferential tariff treatment while awaiting 
the result of verification, and shall not wait for the 
procedures to be completed before it releases the good to 
the importer unless subject to appropriate administrative 
measures. 
 
6.  Each Party shall provide the other Parties with the 
names of its relevant authority, if any. 
 
Rule 7 
Verification Visit 
 
1.  The customs authority or the relevant authority of the 
importing Party may request the exporting Party: 
  
  (a)  to collect and provide information relating to 
the origin of the good and check, for that 
purpose, the facilities used in the production of 
the good, through a visit by the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party 
along with the customs authority or the relevant 
authority of the importing Party to the premises 
of the exporter to whom the CO has been issued, 
or the producer of the good in the exporting 
Party referred to in subparagraph 4(b) of Rule 2; 
and 
 
  (b)  during the visit pursuant to subparagraph (a), to 
provide information relating to the origin of the 
good in the possession of the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party or 
its designees. 
 
2.  When requesting the exporting Party to conduct a visit 
pursuant to paragraph 1, the customs authority or the 
relevant authority of the importing Party shall deliver a 
written communication with such request to the exporting 
Party at least sixty (60) days in advance of the proposed 
date of the visit, the receipt of which is to be confirmed 
by the exporting Party.  The competent governmental 
authority of the exporting Party shall request the written 
consent of the exporter, or the producer of the good in the 
exporting Party whose premises are to be visited. 
 
3.  The communication referred to in paragraph 2 shall 
include: 
 
  (a)  the identity of the customs authority or the 
relevant authority issuing the communication; 
 
  (b)  the name of the exporter, or the producer of the 
good in the exporting Party whose premises are 
requested to be visited; 
 
  (c)  the proposed date and places of the visit; 
 
  (d)  the object and scope of the proposed visit, 
including specific reference to the good subject 
of the verification referred to in the CO; and 
 
  (e)  the names and titles of the officials of the 
customs authority or the relevant authority of 
the importing Party to be present during the 
visit. 
 
 4.  The exporting Party shall respond in writing to the 
importing Party, within thirty (30) days from the receipt 
of the communication referred to in paragraph 2, whether it 
accepts or refuses to conduct the visit requested pursuant 
to paragraph 1. 
 
5.  The competent governmental authority of the exporting 
Party shall, in accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the Party, provide within forty-five (45) days or any other 
mutually agreed period from the last day of the visit, to 
the customs authority or the relevant authority of the 
importing Party any additional information obtained 
pursuant to paragraph 1. 
 
Rule 8 
Determination of Origin and Preferential Tariff Treatment 
 
1.  The customs authority of the importing Party may deny 
preferential tariff treatment to a good for which an 
importer claims preferential tariff treatment where the 
good does not qualify as an originating good of the 
exporting Party or where the importer fails to comply with 
any of the relevant requirements of this Annex. 
 
2.  In cases where the verification procedures outlined in 
Rule 6 or 7 are undertaken, the customs authority of the 
importing Party may determine that a good does not qualify 
as an originating good of the exporting Party and may deny 
preferential tariff treatment, under any of the following 
conditions: 
 
  (a)  the competent governmental authority of the 
exporting Party fails to respond to the request 
within the period referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Rule 6 or paragraph 5 of Rule 7; 
 
  (b)  the exporting Party refuses to the conduct of the 
verification visit as requested by the customs 
authority or the relevant authority of the 
importing Party, or that Party fails to respond 
to the communication referred to in paragraph 2 
of Rule 7 within the period referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Rule 7; or 
 
  (c)  the information provided to the customs authority 
or the relevant authority of the importing Party 
pursuant to Rule 6 or 7 is not sufficient to 
prove that the good qualifies as an originating 
good of the exporting Party. 
 
 3.  In cases where the verification procedures outlined in 
Rule 6 or 7 are undertaken, the customs authority of the 
importing Party shall provide the competent governmental 
authority of the exporting Party with a written 
determination of whether or not the good qualifies as an 
originating good of the exporting Party, including findings 
of fact and the legal basis for the determination, in a 
period, unless otherwise agreed upon by the importing Party 
and the exporting Party, not exceeding thirty (30) days 
after the date of the receipt of the information last 
provided by the competent governmental authority of the 
exporting Party in accordance with Rule 6, or sixty (60) 
days after the last day of the visit referred to in Rule 7. 
 
4.  The competent governmental authority of the exporting 
Party shall notify the determination by the customs 
authority of the importing Party referred to in paragraph 
3, to the exporter, or the producer of the good in the 
exporting Party whose premises were subject to the visit 
referred to in Rule 7.  In the event that a determination 
is made that the good qualifies as an originating good of 
the exporting Party, any suspended preferential tariff 
treatment shall be reinstated. 
 
Rule 9 
Confidentiality 
 
1.  Where a Party provides information to another Party 
pursuant to this Annex and designates the information as 
confidential, the Party receiving the information shall 
maintain the confidentiality of the information, protect 
that information from disclosure that could prejudice the 
competitive position of the persons providing the 
information, use the information only for the purposes 
specified by the Party providing it, and not disclose the 
information without the specific written permission of the 
Party providing it. 
 
2.  Information obtained by the customs authority or the 
relevant authority of the importing Party pursuant to this 
Annex:  
 
  (a)  shall only be used by such authority for the 
purposes of the verification of a CO under this 
Annex; and  
 
  (b)  shall not be used by the importing Party in any 
criminal proceedings carried out by a court or a 
judge, in the absence of a specific written 
permission of the exporting Party that provided 
the information. 
 Rule 10 
Appropriate Penalties or Other Measures against 
Fraudulent Acts 
 
  Each Party shall establish or maintain, in accordance 
with its laws and regulations, appropriate penalties or 
other measures against its exporters or producers who have 
committed fraudulent acts in connection with a CO, 
including submission of false declarations or documents to 
its competent governmental authority or its designees. 
 
Rule 11 
Implementing Regulations 
 
  The Joint Committee shall, upon the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 
79, adopt the Implementing Regulations that provide 
detailed regulations pursuant to which the customs 
authorities, competent governmental authorities and other 
authorities concerned of the Parties shall implement their 
functions under this Annex. 
 Attachment to Annex 4 
Minimum Data Requirement for Certificate of Origin 
 
 1.  Exporter’s name, address and country 
 
 2.  Importer’s or, if applicable, consignee’s name, 
address and country 
 
 3.  Certification number 
 
 4.  Origin of good(s) 
 
 5.  Invoice number and date 
 
 6.  Transport details (if known) 
 
 7.  HS tariff classification number 
 
 8.  Marks, numbers, number and kind of packages; 
Description of good(s) 
 
 9.  Quantity (Unit) 
 
10.  Preference criterion (including information on CTC, 
RVC and accumulation) 
 
11.  Declaration by the exporter 
 
12.  Certification 
 
 
 