FRAMEWORK FOR COMPREHENSIVE  ECONOMIC
PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTH EAST
ASIAN NATIONS AND JAPAN
e ht ,HEW eadsf o State/Governmentsf o Brunei Darussalam eh,t Kingdom
of  Came bRho oePdtapief aLuoo I,bnpldli eco e'nsh etsDiae ,mocratic
Republic ("Lao PDR"), Malaysia,e ht  Unionf o  Myanmar,e ht  Republicfo 
e Phthilippie nRhetse ,pubf loSici ngape oKhrtein ,gdf ooTmh adilnaand 
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member States of the Association  of
South  East  Asian  Nations  (collectively,  "ASEAN"  or  "ASEAN  Member
States", ro  individually,  "ASEAN  Member  State"),d na  Japan  gathered
today for the ASEAN-Japan Summit;
RECALLe INhJotGi nt Declaratione  hAmtSa tEdaeA  N-Japan  Summit
h5 e nlNod ovember  200n 2i Phnom  Penh,  Cambodio ta implement
meae hsrtue rraoelfis sa ati Cfooon mprehensive  Economic  Partnership
("CEP"), including elements of a possible  Free Trade Area ("FTA") which
shoe ucblod mples tseaods  poaon ssible wo eit 0tsy ht1deainnab ralsisa ,h 
Committee to consider and draft a framework for the realisation of the CEP
between ASEAN and Japan ("ASEAN-Japan CEP");
INSPIRED  by the  significant  progress made in ASEAN-Japan  relations
n  sewasacphoh 0ai ncnyfo3hn eomeadri cs   partnershis pba ehtehna t
expanding over a wide range of areas;
DESIRING to minimise barriers and  deepen  economic  linkages  between
ASd EJnaAapNa n; lower business  costs; increase intra-regional dtrnaade 
investment;  increase  economic  efficiency;  createa   larger  market  with
greater  opportun ditnliaaersg  er  econoe mhbf itoues scsr ioanflee sfsoes 
both  ASEd AnJaNa pd naeann; ha rnuacotet ractiveneo stcs apdnitaal 
talent;
SHAR eIvhNietGw e  AthhStaE tAN Ps-EhJaoCpualnd  benefit dfnroam ,
should  be  complementary  to  the  economic  integration  of  ASEAN,  and
considering  that  achievement  of the ASEAN Free  Trade Area  ("AFTA")
will a  eef rnevohAhg aaiSsltounEanec Aae  dlN  anmttraaarckte t
investmeno ttA  SEAd Nnat hs ai tdti esirable  thae httC  ommon  Effective
Preferential  Tariff ("CEPT")  Scheme  among  ASEAN  Member  Stateebs 
implemen att enimod ely basis;BEING  confident  that  the  establishment  of  an  ASEAN-Japan  FTA
covering trade in goods, services and investment will create a partnership
between  ASEAN  and  Japan, and provide an important mechanism for
strengthening  co-operatiod nnas upporting  economic  stabilitn yi East
Asia;
RECOGNISING  the  important  role  and  contribution  of the  business
sector in enhancing trade and investment between ASEAN and Japan and
the  neeo dt  further  promotd nea facilitate  their  co-operatiodnna 
utilisation  of  greater business  opportunities provided  by  the ASEAN-
Japan CEP;
RECOGNISING the different  stages of economic development among
ASEAN Member Stated snba  etween ASEAN dnaJ  apae nhtn dn,a eedot 
face iliihntacttre easing pare tiKchiitpna gftdf ioooConm a moboadLia ,
PDe hURtn, if ooMn e yhSaton dcminaaalri st Repubf loVic iet Narn,
(collectively, "the newer ASEAN Member e SAhtaSttE ensA"i)N  -Japan
CEP;
REAFFIRMINe hGrti gd hnotasb ligate ihrote nfsosp ective countries
un edhteMr  arrakesh  Agreement  Establishe ihntWg  orld  Trade
Organization ("WTO Agreemend t"ona)t,h  er multilateral, regiodnnaal 
bilateral agreements and arrangements;
RECOGNISING the catalytic role that regional trade arrangements can
contribute towards accelerating regional and global liberalisation and as
building blocks in the framework of the multilateral trading system;
HAVE DECIDES FDA OLLOWS:
1
Objectives
The objectives of the ASEAN-Japan CEP are to;
) a( strengthen economic integration between ASEANd na Japan
through the creation of a CEP;
(b)  enhance the competitiveness  of ASEAN  and Japan  in the
world  market  through  strengthened  partndenrsahip 
linkages;(c)  progressively  liberalise  and  facilitate  trade  in  goods  and
services sa  wells a  createa   transparend tna  liberal
investment regime;
(d)  expw loaenrr deen daaes velop  appropriate  measurroefs 
further co-operatid onenac onomic integratiodnna; 
(e)  facilitate  the  more  effective  economic  integration  of  the
newer ASEAN Member States and bridge the development
gap amoe nAhgt SEAN Member States.
2
Basic Principles
ASd EJnaApaNa n wille  fahodlthl ooewrte ing principles:
e hTASE )aA(N-JP aEpsChano uld  invo lllavAe SEAN
Member  Sd tanJd taaenipsn aacn lua dbe road  ranfoge 
sectors  focusing  on  liberalisation,  facilitation  and  co-
operation  activities,  notine hgt principlf eo reciprocity,
transparency and mutual benefits to both ASEAN and Japan;
e hiTnte )bg(rity, solidarid tniyan tegratio fnoA  SEAN wielbl 
given consideration in the realisation of the ASEAN-Japan
CEP;
e hATS(cE) AN-JP aEpACagn reement  shoue blcd onsistent
with the rules and disciplines of the WTO Agreement;
(d)  Special and differential treatment should be provided to the
ASEAN  Member  States  in  recognition  of  their  different
levelsf o  economic  development.  Additional  flexibility
should be accorded to the newer ASEAN Member States;
(e)  Flexibility should be given to address the sensitive sectors in
each ASEAN Member State and Japan; and
(f)  Technical  co-ope drcanatiapoan city building programmes
should also be considered.3
Measures for Comprehensive Economic Partnership
e AhSTEAN-P JsaEhpoCe aurnbel da l:iysebd 
) a( carryine ght tuo Measuresr of  Immediate  Implementation
specifien diS  ection;4 
) b( implementing programmen oFs acilitati donCna o-operation
between ASEAN and Japan in the areas specified in Section
5; and
) c( implementing measurer oLsf iberalisationni 
 )1( Traden i Goods
) 2( Traden i Services;dna 
) 3( Investment.
4
Measures For Immediate Implementation
1.  ASd EJnaApaNa n e dfhoetlco li owdntweo oirnk g activities that
could provide immediate n abacecn enelfoeirtas ted basis:
) a(Technical assistd acnnacapea city buildio nAtg SEAN, particularly
fe ohtnr ewer  ASEAN  Member  Sto ta istmae ossp, rove  their
competitiveness to meaningfully participate in the partnership and
to assist ASEAN Member States who are not members of the WTO
and the World Customs Organization ("WCO") to work towards
becoming members of the aforementioned organizations;
) b( Tradd enai nvestment promotion dnaf acilitation measures;
(c)  Trade and investment policy dialogue;
(d)  Business sector dialogue;
(e)  Measures to facilitate the mobility of business people;
(f)  Exchd acnnogame pilat fiooren levant data su scacuh stoms tariff
and bilateral trade statisticsdn;a y onAt(hge) r measures delivering immediate mutual benefits.
2.  ASEAN and Japan will continue to build upon existing or agreed
programmes in the areas identified above.
5
Facilitation and Co-operation
1.  ASEd AnJaNa pan  decio dtec onduct  consultations  freohmt  
bee gahif rnfeotnaf a ci2os nni0lgo d i0tca4n otai-ooon pte rdatnioan ,
develop  work  programe hmte roexfsp  editious  implementatiofon 
measures or activities in each of the following areas:
(1)  Trade Related Procedures
Facilif tatotriaodn e-related  procedurese  ibmwipl llemennited 
such  areas  as  co-operation  on  custom  procedures  by
computerisation,  simplification  and  harmonisation,  as  far  as
possible, to relevant international standards.
(2)  Business Environment
Recognising  that  the  satisfactory  business  environment  is  an
indispensable part of the attractiveness to investors, each ASEAN
Member  State  and  Japan  will  make  the  effort  to  improve  the
business environment and enhance co-operation in related fields.
) 3(Intellectual Property Rights ("IPR")
Japan  will  support  ASEAN  Member  States  in  developing,
improving, enhancind nigam  plementing theR ciPrIa  pabilitiedsna, 
in  promoting  accesso ioItPn R-related  international  agreements.
Co-operation  between  ASEAN  and  Japan,  such  as  information
exchange, will also be encouraged.(4)  Other Areas of Co-operation:
Energy
Co-operal tisoito nonic  kpiling, natu srauagtl ilisation
and promotion of energy efficiency.
Informatd inaon Communications  Technology
("ICT")
Co-operation  in  developing  ICT  infrastructure,
Information Technology ("IT")-related legal systems,
and  IT-related  human  resource,  and  promoting
exchanges of IT researchers and engineers.
Human Resource Development ("HRD")
Co-operation  among  the  relevant  organisations  in
each ASEAN Member Stat denaJ  apan, especiallyni 
the  field  of  HRD  for  experienced  engineers  and
middle management.
Small and Medium Enterprises ("SMEs")
Co-opera nteioxinc hanging v nipeoowlis cies relating
o t SMEsd na  expanding  business  opportunitiesfo 
SMEs.
Tourism and hospitality
Co-operation in  implementing  seminarors 
information exchange on tourism and hospitality.
Transportatiod nlnao gistics
Co-operation for efficient cargo transport system, safe
and  sustainable  shipping  and  safe  and  efficient  air
transport.Standards  and  conformance  and  mutual  recognition
arrangement
Exchang foei nformation  concernie nhtgs tandards
d na conformance  policiesd n,a capacity buildingfo 
standardisation  organisations  in  each  ASEAN
Member State.
Other  possible  technical  co-operation  projects,
including  environment,  automobile,  bio-technology,
science  and  technology,  sustainable  forest
management,  competition  policy,  food  securidtnya 
financial services co-operation.
. 2 ASEd AJnaaNp an will contino udte evelop work programmneis 
w aernef aofsa cilitatd icnooan- operation.
6
Liberalisation
1.  ASEAN  and  Japan  will  start  the  consultations  on  the  ASEAN-
Jae htlp nioab PEneC ralisationf ot raden i goods, traden i servicesdna, 
investment,  from  the  beginning  of  2004  by  discussing  the  basic
principles  of  ASEAN-Japan  cumulative  rules  of  origin  and  customs
classification and collecting and analysing trade and custom data.
. 2 d AJnSaEapAaPnN  EwCill   ineia htianttee g ontioation 
Agreement between ASEAd nJNaa pa w asanh ole, taking into account
 ehtachievemef notbs ilateral  negotiations  between  each  ASEAN
Member  Stated na  Japan,e ht dna  further  progresse ht fo  ASEAN
integration process.  Such Agreement should eb consistent withOTW eht 
Agreement.
3.  De unhreigntog tiation, those ASEAN Member States thatt ohanve 
concluded  bilateral  Economic  Partnership  Agreement  ("EPA")  with
Japan will negotiate concessions bilaterally.  Schedules of liberalisation
concessions between Japan and those ASEAN Member States that have
concluded a bilateral EPA should not be renegotiated in the negotiation
of the ASEAN-Japan CEP Agreement.  All schedules of liberalisation
concessions we iablln  ne eAhxtS eoEdt AN-Ja PApEaCgnr eement.of the ASEAN-Japan CEP Agreement.  All  schedules of liberalisation
concessions will be annexed to the ASEAN-Japan CEP Agreement.
(1) Trade in Goods
ASEAN  and  Japan  decide to progressively eliminate  duties  and other
restrictive  regulatiof nocs ommerce  (except,  where  necessary,  those
permitted  under  Article  XXIV  (8)  (b)  of  the  General  Agreement  on
Tariffs and Trade 1994 in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement ("GATT"))
on substantial llltayr an dgie oon dois rdo eetr sA tbaTebFtlw inseahe n
ASE dAJnaaNp an which will  ince lbluit em udtwhboetini,t  leol dt, 
following:
) a(cumulative ru foloers igin;
) b( detailed rules governie nhtatg riff reductir ooen limination
programmes  including  principles  governing  reciprocal
commitments;
) c( non-tariff measures including technical barriero stt raddnea; 
(d)  trade remedy measures based on the principles of the WTO
Agreement.
(2) Trade in Services
ASEd AnJaaNp an  decio dpte rogressively liberalise tradn ise ervices
with substantial sectoral coverage consistent with the rules of the WTO
Agreement. Such liberalisations should be directed to:
(a)  progressive  elimination  of  substantially  all  discrimination
between or among ASEAN and Japan and/or prohibition of
new or more discriminatory measures with respect to trade
in  services  between  Ad SnJEaaApNa n,  (erxocfep t
measures  permitted  under  Article  V(l)(b)  of  the  General
Agreemn eTonrt an dSie ervices ("GATS n"Ai) nnex oIBt 
thO TAeW  greement);
) b( expae ndhsed tsi pnnoctainoh   fploie beralisati fotorn andie 
services;(d)  enhanced  co-operatin oisn ervices  between  ASEdAnaN 
Japan nio  rdeo rti mprove efficiencd nyca ompetitiveness.
(3) Investment
In order to promote investment, ASEAN and Japan decide to;
(a)  create a liberal and competitive environment;
(b)  strengthen co-operation in investment, facilitate investment
and  improve  transparency  of  investment  rules  and
regulations; and
(c)  provide for the protection of investors and investment.
7
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment
For  ASEAN Member  States wt ehym toinc eehram  bee htrW fso  TO,
Japan will continue to apply the general Most-Favoured-Nation ("MFN")
treatments a  stipulatedn i Articlee ht fo I GATT.  Japan will endeavourot 
provide MFN treatment under the WTO on a reciprocal basis.
8
General Exceptions
Subje ehtrc oett quirement  that  such  measut onra eerpas pliae ndi 
manner  which  would  constitua tem  ea fnoas rbitrar oruy njustifiable
discrimination  between  or  among  ASEAN  and Japan where the  same
conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on trade within the ASEAN-
Japan CEP, nothingn i this Framework  should preveny nati ndividual
ASEAN  Member  State  and/or  Japan  from  adoptir noge nforcing
measures,  in  accordance  with  the  rules  and  disciplines  of  the  WTO
Agreement, for:
(a)  the  protection  of  the  national  security  of  each  ASEAN
Member State and/or Japan;
e ht(pbr) otectf ioona rticf olesa rtistic,  hisdtonaric 
archaeological valuer;o (c)  such  other  measures  which  each  ASEAN  Member  State
and/or Japan deems or deem necessary for the protection of
public  morals  or  to  maintain  public  order,  or  for  the
protection of human, animal or plant life and health.
9
Consultation
Any differences  concerning the interpretation or implementation of this
Framework should be settled amicably by consultations and/or mediation.
10
Timeframes
1.  ASEAN and Japan will start consultations on the ASEAN-Japan
CEP  on  the  liberalisation  of  trade  in  goods,  trade  in  services  and
investment,  frome ht beginningf o 200t e4s saf, orthn i  Section,6 
paragraph  1.
2.  ASd EJnaAapNa n will make maximum effo octrots mmeehncte 
negotiation  on  the  CEP  Agreement  between  ASEAN  and  Japan  as  a
whole, referred to in Section 6, paragraph 2, from the beginning of 2005.
ASEAd JNnaa pan will endeavouo rct onclude hnet egotiatios nas oosna 
possible,  taking  into  account  the  need  to  leave  sufficient  time  for
implementation.
e ihmTplem .e3ntatif omon ee rahestau rlroiee sfAsha ttS ifoEonA  N-
Japan CEP, including elema pe fnootsss ible free trade area, shoeubld 
completed as soon as possible by 2012, taking into account the economic
 dlensvaeenlss itive  secn toieras ch  country,  including  allowing
additional five) 5( years' time eht rnof  ewer ASEAN Member States.
11
Institutional Arrangements for this Framework
1.  The  ASEAN-Japan  Committee  on  Comprehensive  Economic
Partnership ("AJCCEP") will continue to carry out the work set out in
this Framework.
102.  AJCy eCasmEtaPb lish e onbteh- ceoyerca smbs oaor tdys iaes 
ordinate and implement this Framework, including the supervision, co-
ordination  and  review  of  the  implementation  of  other  measures
undertaken pursuao tnht tis Framework.
3.e hT  ASEAN  Secretariat  will  providee ht  necessary  secretariat
suppoe hAtr ott JCCEP wheneved nwra  herevee hmrt  eetinge rsha eld.
SIGNEDn iB  ali, Indonesiaf o,O  ytcahdt io8s ber 200n 3id uplicatnei 
th
e Ehntglish language.
For Brunei Darussalam For Japan
HAJIHASSANAL BOLKIAH JUMCHIRO KOIZUMI
Suf lBtoarn unei Darussalam Prime Minister
For the Kingdom of Cambodia
SAMDECH HUN SEN
Prime Minister
e ht roFRepublic  of Indonesia
MEGAWATI SOEKARNOPUTRI
President
11o PaLFe eoohprt le's Democratic
Republic
BOUNNHANG VORACHITH
Prime Minister
 roMFalaysia
. RMDAHAN MTIHOBIHR AMAD
Prime Minister
For the Union ofMyanmar
GENERAL KHIN NYUNT
Prime Minister
e ht rRoF epublic oe fht Philippines
GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO
President
12e hRt roeFm&fic  of Singapore
GH
Prime Minister
e Khti nrogFdof moT hailand
DR. THAKSIN SHINAWATRA
Prime Minister
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
PHAN VAN KHAI
Prime Minister
13