 
 
 
 
1 
IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS 
 
 
Rule 1 
Application for Certificate of Origin 
  
(a) 
An application for a Certificate of Origin (hereinafter referred to as “CO”) 
is to be made by the exporter or its authorised agent to the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party or its designees referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Rule 2 of the Operational Certification Procedures 
(hereinafter referred to as “OCP”) set out in Annex 4 of the Agreement 
on Comprehensive Economic Partnership among Member States of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and Japan (hereinafter referred 
to as “AJCEP Agreement”), together with supporting documents 
proving that the good to be exported qualifies for the issuance of a CO, 
in accordance with the exporting Party’s domestic laws and regulations.  
 
(b) 
Where a pre-exportation examination of the origin of a good to be 
exported is conducted, the result of the examination, subject to review 
periodically or whenever appropriate, will be accepted as the supporting 
evidence in determining the origin of the good to be exported thereafter. 
The pre-exportation examination may not apply to the good the origin 
of which, by its nature, can be easily determined.  
 
Rule 2 
Issuance of the Certificate of Origin 
 
The competent governmental authority of the exporting Party or its designees is, to 
the best of its competence and ability, required to carry out proper examination, in 
accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the exporting Party, upon each 
application for a CO to ensure that: 
 
(a)  
the CO is duly completed and signed by the authorised signatory; 
 
(b) 
the origin of the good is in conformity with Chapter 3 of the AJCEP 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the description, quantity (e.g. gross weight, net weight) of the good, 
marks and numbers of packages, and number and kinds of packages, 
as specified, conform to the good; and  
 
(d) 
other statements in the CO correspond to relevant supporting 
documents submitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Rule 3 
Format of Certificate of Origin 
 
 
(a) 
A CO should be on A4 size paper. 
 
(b) 
A CO will comprise the original and two (2) copies in the case of a Party 
which is an ASEAN Member State, and only the original in the case of 
Japan. 
 
(c) 
A CO will bear a reference number separately given by each place or 
office of issuance. 
 
(d) 
For cases where there is a third country invoice, this is to be indicated 
in the CO, together with such information as the name and address of 
the person issuing the invoice. 
 
(e) 
A declaration for a CO is to be completed by the exporter, in box 11 of 
the ASEAN Member States’ form and box 10 of Japan’s form. The 
exporter’s signature may be autographed or electronically printed. 
 
(f) 
Signatures on a CO of the authorised signatory of the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party or its designees may be 
autographed or electronically printed. 
 
(g) 
The original of a CO is to be forwarded by the exporter to the importer 
for submission to the customs authority of the importing Party. In the 
case of a Party which is an ASEAN Member State, a copy of the CO is 
to be retained by both the exporter and the competent governmental 
authority of the exporting Party or its designees, respectively. 
 
Multiple Items or Invoices 
 
(h) 
A CO, which indicates two or more invoices issued for a single 
shipment, will be accepted by the customs authority of the importing 
Party. 
 
(i) 
Multiple items declared on the same CO should be allowed, provided 
that each item qualifies as an originating good separately in its own 
right. 
 
(j) 
For multiple items declared on the same CO, a problem encountered 
with one or more of the items declared will not affect or delay the 
preferential tariff treatment and customs clearance of the remaining 
items declared on that CO. Paragraph 5 of Rule 6 of the OCP may be 
applied to the problematic items.  
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Rule 4 
Modifications 
 
(a) 
The customs authority of the importing Party will disregard minor errors, 
such as slight discrepancies or omissions, typographical errors, and 
information which falls outside the designated box, provided that these 
minor errors do not affect the authenticity of the CO or the accuracy of 
the information included in the CO. 
 
(b) 
Neither erasures nor superimpositions are allowed on a CO.  Any 
alteration is to be made by:  
 
(i) 
striking out the erroneous parts and making any additions which 
may be required. Such alterations are to be approved by an 
authorised signatory of the CO and certified by the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party or its designees. 
Unused spaces are to be crossed out to prevent any subsequent 
addition; or  
 
(ii) 
issuing a new CO to replace the erroneous one. 
 
Rule 5 
Theft, Loss or Destruction 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a CO before the expiration of its 
validity, the exporter or its authorised agent may request the competent 
governmental authority of the exporting Party or its designees to issue: 
 
(a) 
a new CO with a new reference number on the basis of the export 
documents in the possession of the competent governmental authority 
of the exporting Party or its designees, in which case the original CO 
will be invalidated. The date of issuance and the reference number of 
the original CO is to be indicated in the new CO, namely, in box 12 of 
the ASEAN Member States’ form and box 9 of Japan’s form.  The new 
CO will be valid during the term of the validity of the original CO; or 
 
(b) 
where applicable, a certified true copy of the CO to be made out on the 
basis of the export documents in the possession of the exporter or its 
authorised agent, bearing the endorsement of the words “CERTIFIED 
TRUE COPY” in box 12 of the ASEAN Member States’ certified true 
copy. This copy is to bear the date of issuance of the CO and it will be 
valid for the same period as that of the CO. The certified true copy of 
the CO is to be issued no later than one year from the date of issuance 
of the CO.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Rule 6 
Waiver of CO 
 
(a)  
For the purpose of paragraph 2 of Rule 3 of the OCP, the CO will be 
waived when the aggregate customs value of goods does not exceed 
the following amount: 
 
(i)  
in the case of Japan,  two hundred thousand Japanese Yen (¥ 200 
000) in aggregate customs value; and 
 
(ii)  in the case of a Party which is a Member State of ASEAN, 200 
United States Dollars (USD 200) in exporting value. 
 
(b)  
For the purpose of paragraph 2 of Rule 3 of the OCP, should a Party 
modify the value referred to in subparagraph (a) (i) or (a) (ii), or any 
subsequently modified value, it will notify the other Parties of such 
modified value, through the ASEAN Secretariat.  
 
Rule 7 
Retroactive Issuance of Certificate of Origin 
 
In principle, a CO is to be issued by the time of shipment or no later than three (3) 
days from the date of shipment. In exceptional cases where a CO has not been 
issued by the time of shipment or no later than three (3) days from the date of 
shipment, at the request of the exporter, the CO will be issued retroactively in 
accordance with the laws and regulations of the exporting Party within twelve (12) 
months from the date of shipment, in which case it is necessary to tick the box marked 
“Issued Retroactively”.  In such cases, the importer of the good who claims the 
preferential tariff treatment for the good may, subject to the laws and regulations of 
the importing Party, provide the customs authority of the importing Party with the CO 
issued retroactively. The CO issued retroactively will indicate the date of shipment in 
box 3. 
 
Rule 8  
Documents for Accumulation 
 
For the purposes of Article 29 of the AJCEP Agreement, if documentary evidence is 
needed for the issuance of a CO or the verification process to prove that material 
accumulated in the production of a good is an originating material of a Party, the 
following may be used: 
 
(a)  
a declaration by the exporter or producer of the good;  
 
(b)  
an invoice of the good;  
 
(c)  
a copy of the CO for the material issued by the exporting Party of the 
material, including that issued retroactively; or 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
(d)  
any other relevant document. 
 
Rule 9  
Back-to-back CO for Partial Export Shipments 
 
For the purpose of subparagraph 4(a) of Rule 3 of the OCP, in the case of partial 
export shipments, the partial export value and partial quantity is to be shown on the 
back-to-back CO. The Party issuing the back-to-back CO is required to ensure that 
the total quantity exported under the partial shipment does not exceed the total 
quantity shown in the original CO. 
 
Rule 10 
Focal Points 
 
(a) 
Each Party is required to designate a focal point for all matters relating 
to Chapter 3 of the AJCEP Agreement, the OCP and this Implementing 
Regulations. 
 
(b) 
Each Party is required to provide the other Parties, through the ASEAN 
Secretariat, with the name, address, telephone number, facsimile 
number and e-mail address of the focal point upon adoption of this 
Implementing Regulations, and is likewise required to notify the other 
Parties of any modification regarding such information within thirty (30) 
days after such modification. 
 
(c) 
When the focal point of a Party raises any matter arising from the 
implementation of Chapter 3 of the AJCEP Agreement, the OCP and 
this Implementing Regulations to the focal point of another Party, that 
other Party may assign relevant experts to look into the matter and to 
respond with its findings and proposal for resolving the matter within a 
reasonable period of time. The focal points will facilitate the resolution 
of any matter raised with regard to the implementation of Chapter 3 of 
the AJCEP Agreement through consultations. 
 
Rule 11           Designees 
 
If the competent governmental authority of the exporting Party designates its 
designees, or makes modification or revocation with respect to the designees, it is 
required to immediately notify the other Parties, through the ASEAN Secretariat, of 
such designation, modification or revocation. 
 
Rule 12 
Tariff Classification 
 
The tariff classification numbers of the Harmonized System (HS) is to be indicated 
on a CO at the six-digit level, and the description of the good on a CO should be 
substantially identical to the description on the invoice and, if possible, to the 
description under the HS for the good. 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
Rule 13 
Procedure to exchange the sample of a certificate of origin, 
specimen signatures and official seals 
 
Each Party is required to provide the other Parties, through the ASEAN Secretariat, 
with a sample of a CO, specimen signatures and specimen official seals or 
impressions of stamps of its competent governmental authority or its designees for 
the issuance of a CO, upon the date of adoption of this Implementing Regulations, 
as well as, in case of any subsequent modification thereof, thirty (30) days before the 
modification is made. 
 
Rule 14   
 Communication 
 
(a) 
For the purposes of verification in accordance with Rules 6 and 7 of the 
OCP, any communication between the competent governmental 
authority of the exporting Party and the customs authority of the 
importing Party is to be made through the designated focal points. Such 
communication will be made by any method, with confirmation of 
receipt. 
 
(b)   
In the cases provided for in paragraph (a), the direct communications 
between the competent governmental authority of the exporting Party 
and the customs authority of the importing Party may be made by 
facsimile or e-mail in parallel with the communications set out in that 
paragraph. 
 
(c)   
The period for providing the response pursuant to Rules 6 and 7 of the 
OCP will commence from the date of the confirmation of receipt of the 
request pursuant to paragraph (a).  
 
(d)   
For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Rule 8 of the OCP, the period for 
providing the written determination by the customs authority of the 
importing Party will commence from the date of the confirmation of 
receipt of the information last provided pursuant to paragraph (a). 
 
(e)      Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) above, for the purposes of 
verification in accordance with paragraph 1 of Rule 6 of the OCP, the 
customs authority of an ASEAN Member State may access the EPA 
CO Reference System provided by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and 
Industry of Japan. In case where such verification is undertaken using 
the EPA CO Reference System, the written determination referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Rule 8 of the OCP may be communicated using the EPA 
CO Reference System.  
 
     
 
 
 
 
7 
Rule 15 
Goods in Transport or Storage 
 
An originating good which is in the process of being transported from the exporting 
Party to the importing Party, or is in temporary storage in bonded area in the importing 
Party, is to be accorded preferential tariff treatment if it is  imported into the importing 
Party on or after the date of entry into force of the AJCEP Agreement for the importing 
Party, subject to the submission of a CO issued retroactively to the customs authority 
of the importing Party and subject to domestic laws and regulations of the importing 
Party. 
 
Rule 16  
Attachment 
 
The formats of the CO for ASEAN Member States and Japan are shown respectively 
as Attachment 1 and Attachment 2 of this Implementing Regulations. 
 
 Rule 17        Transitional Provisions Incident to the Amendment of Annex 2  
        
(a) 
In relation to the trade between Parties with regard to either or both 
of which the amendment to Annex 2 has not entered into force, a CO 
based on the pre-amended Annex 2 (HS 2002 version) should be 
accepted by the customs authority of the importing Party.  
 
Note: For greater certainty, Article 29 of the AJCEP Agreement should 
apply to this subparagraph.   
 
(b) 
Subject to paragraph 1 of Rule 4 of the OCP, a CO issued prior to the 
entry into force of the amendment to Annex 2 based on the pre-
amended Annex 2 (HS 2002 version) should be accepted by the 
customs authority of the importing Party with regard to which the 
amendment to Annex 2 has entered into force.  
 
(c) 
  Regarding the good exported prior to the entry into force of the 
amendment to Annex 2 with regard to the exporting Party, a CO issued 
retroactively pursuant to Rule 7 of this Implementing Regulations after 
the entry into force of the amendment to Annex 2 with regard to the 
exporting Party should be based on the amended Annex 2 (HS 2007 
version).  
 
(d) 
  When issuing a back-to-back CO pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of Rule 
3 of the OCP, the competent governmental authority or its designees 
of the importing Party issuing back-to-back CO may make an 
appropriate conversion of the HS code on the original CO depending 
on the status of the amendment to Annex 2 with regard to the exporting 
Party or another Party as referred to in subparagraph 4(a) of Rule 3 of 
the OCP. 
