Chapter 8 
Economic Cooperation 
 
Article 52 
Basic Principles 
 
1.  The Parties shall, subject to the availability of 
resources as well as their respective applicable laws and 
regulations, promote cooperation under this Agreement for 
their mutual benefits in order to liberalise and facilitate 
trade and investment among the Parties and to promote the 
well-being of the peoples of the Parties, taking into 
account the different levels of economic development among 
ASEAN Member States. 
 
2.  The Parties shall promote regional and sub-regional 
development through economic cooperation activities 
including capacity building, technical assistance, and 
other such activities as may be mutually agreed upon among 
the Parties. 
 
Article 53 
Fields of Economic Cooperation 
 
  The Parties, on the basis of mutual benefit, shall 
explore and undertake economic cooperation activities in 
the following fields: 
 
  (a)  Trade-Related Procedures; 
 
  (b)  Business Environment; 
 
  (c)  Intellectual Property;  
 
  (d)  Energy; 
 
  (e)  Information and Communications Technology; 
 
  (f)  Human Resource Development; 
 
  (g)  Small and Medium Enterprises; 
 
  (h)  Tourism and Hospitality; 
 
  (i)  Transportation and Logistics; 
 
  (j)  Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry; 
 
  (k)  Environment; 
 
  (l)  Competition Policy; and  
  
  (m)  Other fields as may be mutually agreed upon among 
the Parties. 
 
Article 54 
Sub-Committee on Economic Cooperation 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Economic 
Cooperation (hereinafter referred to in this Article as 
“the Sub-Committee”) shall be established in accordance 
with Article 11 on the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 79.  
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to: 
 
  (a)  modify and formulate relevant Work Programmes 
setting out areas and forms of each field of 
economic cooperation; 
 
  (b)  make recommendations on existing and new economic 
cooperation activities under this Chapter in 
accordance with the priorities of the Parties; 
 
  (c)  review and monitor the implementation and 
operation of this Chapter and the application and 
fulfilment of its basic principles; and 
 
  (d)  report the findings and the outcome of its 
discussions to the Joint Committee. 
 
3.  The Sub-Committee shall be: 
 
  (a)  composed of representatives of the Governments of 
Japan and all ASEAN Member States; and 
 
  (b)  co-chaired by an official of the Government of 
Japan and an official of one of the Governments 
of ASEAN Member States. 
 
Article 55 
Work Programmes for Economic Cooperation 
 
1.  Work Programmes setting out areas and forms of each 
field of cooperation activities shall be set forth in Annex 
5. 
 
2.  Any modification of existing Work Programmes or 
formulation of new Work Programmes shall be made in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 54 and through 
amending Annex 5 pursuant to the procedures set out in 
Article 77. 
 
 Article 56 
Resources for Economic Cooperation 
 
  Taking into account the different levels of economic 
development and capacity among the Parties, resources for 
economic cooperation under this Chapter shall be provided 
in such a manner as may be mutually agreed upon among the 
Parties. 
 
Article 57 
Implementation of Economic Cooperation Activities 
 
1.  Economic cooperation activities shall involve Japan 
and at least two (2) ASEAN Member States.  
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, economic cooperation 
activities may also involve Japan and one (1) ASEAN Member 
State, provided that those activities are regional in 
nature and of benefit to other ASEAN Member States.  Such 
activities shall aim at narrowing the gaps of economic 
development among ASEAN Member States or at promoting the 
well-being of the people of ASEAN Member States towards 
further integration of ASEAN. 
 
3.  The Parties shall undertake economic cooperation 
activities at mutually agreed time.  
 
Article 58 
Non-application of Chapter 9 
 
  The dispute settlement procedures provided for in 
Chapter 9 shall not apply to this Chapter. 
 
Chapter 9 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
Article 59 
Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
  (a)  “complaining party” means any Party or Parties 
that request consultations under paragraph 1 of 
Article 62; 
 
  (b)  “party to a dispute” means any Party which is a 
complaining party or a party complained against; 
 
  (c)  “party complained against” means any Party or 
Parties to which the request for consultations is 
made under paragraph 1 of Article 62; and 
 