Article 56 
Resources for Economic Cooperation 
 
  Taking into account the different levels of economic 
development and capacity among the Parties, resources for 
economic cooperation under this Chapter shall be provided 
in such a manner as may be mutually agreed upon among the 
Parties. 
 
Article 57 
Implementation of Economic Cooperation Activities 
 
1.  Economic cooperation activities shall involve Japan 
and at least two (2) ASEAN Member States.  
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, economic cooperation 
activities may also involve Japan and one (1) ASEAN Member 
State, provided that those activities are regional in 
nature and of benefit to other ASEAN Member States.  Such 
activities shall aim at narrowing the gaps of economic 
development among ASEAN Member States or at promoting the 
well-being of the people of ASEAN Member States towards 
further integration of ASEAN. 
 
3.  The Parties shall undertake economic cooperation 
activities at mutually agreed time.  
 
Article 58 
Non-application of Chapter 9 
 
  The dispute settlement procedures provided for in 
Chapter 9 shall not apply to this Chapter. 
 
Chapter 9 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
Article 59 
Definitions 
 
  For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
  (a)  “complaining party” means any Party or Parties 
that request consultations under paragraph 1 of 
Article 62; 
 
  (b)  “party to a dispute” means any Party which is a 
complaining party or a party complained against; 
 
  (c)  “party complained against” means any Party or 
Parties to which the request for consultations is 
made under paragraph 1 of Article 62; and 
   (d)  “third party” means a Party, other than the 
parties to a dispute, that notifies its interest 
in writing in accordance with Article 66. 
 
Article 60 
Scope of Application 
 
1.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement, this 
Chapter shall apply with respect to the settlement of all 
disputes between the Parties concerning the interpretation 
or application of this Agreement.    
 
2.  This Chapter may apply to measures affecting a Party’s 
observance of this Agreement taken by regional or local 
governments or authorities within the Party.  When the 
arbitral tribunal has awarded that a provision of this 
Agreement has not been observed in accordance with Article 
67, the responsible Party shall take such reasonable 
measures as may be available to it to ensure its 
observance.  Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 71 shall apply 
in cases where it has not been possible for the Party to 
secure such observance. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Chapter shall prejudice any rights of 
the Parties to have recourse to dispute settlement 
procedures available under any other international 
agreement to which all of the parties to a dispute are 
parties. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraph 3, once dispute settlement 
proceedings have been initiated under this Chapter or under 
any other international agreement to which all of the 
parties to a dispute are parties with respect to a 
particular dispute, the forum selected by the complaining 
party shall be used to the exclusion of any other fora for 
that particular dispute.  However, this shall not apply if 
substantially separate and distinct rights or obligations 
under different international agreements are in dispute. 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4, the 
complaining party shall be deemed to have selected a forum 
when it has requested the establishment of, or referred a 
dispute to, an arbitral tribunal or a dispute settlement 
panel, in accordance with this Chapter or any other 
international agreement to which the parties to a dispute 
are parties.  
 Article 61 
Contact Points 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Chapter, a Party may 
designate a contact point responsible for communications on 
all matters referred to in this Chapter.  The submission of 
any request, notice or other document under this Chapter to 
the contact point so designated shall be deemed to have 
been made to that Party. 
 
2.  Where a Party chooses not to designate a contact point 
pursuant to paragraph 1, the submission of any request, 
notice or other document under this Chapter shall be made 
to the contact point which the Party designates in 
accordance with Article 12. 
 
3.  Any Party receiving any request, notice or other 
document under this Chapter shall acknowledge receipt in 
writing. 
 
Article 62 
Consultations 
 
1.  A Party or Parties may make a request in writing for 
consultations to other Party or Parties concerning any 
matter on the interpretation or application of this 
Agreement where the complaining party considers that any 
benefit accruing to it under this Agreement is being 
nullified or impaired as a result of the failure of the 
party complained against to carry out its obligations under 
this Agreement, or as a result of the application by the 
party complained against of measures which are in conflict 
with its obligations under this Agreement.  
 
2.  Any request for consultations shall be submitted in 
writing, containing the identification of the specific 
measures at issue and indication of the factual and legal 
basis (including the provisions of this Agreement alleged 
to have been breached and any other relevant provisions) of 
the complaint.  The complaining party shall at the same 
time notify the rest of the Parties thereof. 
 
3.  Upon receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 
1, the party complained against shall promptly acknowledge 
receipt of such request to the complaining party and the 
rest of the Parties at the same time. 
 
 4.  If a request for consultations is made, the party 
complained against shall reply to the request within ten 
(10) days after the date of receipt of the request and 
shall enter into consultations in good faith within a 
period of not more than thirty (30) days after the date of 
receipt of the request, with a view to reaching a mutually 
satisfactory solution. 
 
5.  The parties to a dispute shall make every effort to 
reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter 
through consultations under this Article.  To this end, the 
parties to the dispute shall provide each other with 
sufficient information to enable a full examination of the 
dispute. 
 
6.  Consultations shall be confidential between the 
parties to the dispute and are without prejudice to the 
rights of any Party in any further proceedings under this 
Chapter or in other proceedings.  The parties to the 
dispute shall inform the rest of the Parties of the outcome 
of the consultations.  
 
7.  In cases of urgency, including those which concern 
perishable goods, the parties to the dispute shall enter 
into consultations within a period of no more than ten (10) 
days after the date of receipt of the request by the party 
complained against.  
 
8.  In cases of urgency, including those which concern 
perishable goods, the parties to the dispute shall make 
every effort to accelerate the consultations to the 
greatest extent possible. 
 
Article 63 
Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation 
 
1.  Good offices, conciliation and mediation are 
procedures that are undertaken voluntarily if the parties 
to the dispute so agree. 
 
2.  Good offices, conciliation or mediation may be 
requested at any time by any party to a dispute.  They may 
begin at any time by agreement of the parties to the 
dispute and be terminated at any time upon the request of 
any party to the dispute. 
 
3.  If the parties to the dispute agree, good offices, 
conciliation or mediation may continue while the 
proceedings of the arbitral tribunal provided for in this 
Chapter are in progress. 
 
 4.  Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation or 
mediation, and, in particular, positions taken by the 
parties to the dispute during these proceedings, shall be 
kept confidential and without prejudice to the rights of 
any Party in any proceedings under this Chapter or in other 
proceedings. 
 
Article 64 
Establishment of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  The complaining party may request in writing, to the 
party complained against, the establishment of an arbitral 
tribunal: 
 
  (a)  if the party complained against does not respond 
within ten (10) days, or does not enter into such 
consultations within thirty (30) days after the 
date of receipt of the request for such 
consultations; or 
 
  (b)  if the parties to the dispute fail to resolve the 
dispute through such consultations within sixty 
(60) days after the date of receipt of the 
request for such consultations, or within twenty 
(20) days after such date in cases of urgency 
including those which concern perishable goods.  
 
2.  A copy of the request referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
also be communicated to the rest of the Parties. 
 
3.  Where more than one (1) complaining party request the 
establishment of an arbitral tribunal related to the same 
matter, a single arbitral tribunal may, whenever feasible, 
be established by the parties to the dispute to examine the 
matter, taking into account the rights of each party to the 
dispute. 
 
4.  Where a single arbitral tribunal is established 
pursuant to paragraph 3, the arbitral tribunal shall 
organise its examination and present its findings to all 
the parties to the dispute in such a manner that the rights 
which the parties to the dispute would have enjoyed had 
separate arbitral tribunals examined the same matter are in 
no way impaired.  If any of the parties to the dispute so 
requests, the arbitral tribunal may make separate awards on 
the dispute concerned as long as the timeframe for making 
the awards so permits.  The written submissions by a party 
to the dispute shall be made available to the other parties 
to the dispute, and each party to the dispute shall have 
the right to be present when any other party to the dispute 
presents its views to the arbitral tribunal. 
 
 5.  Where more than one (1) arbitral tribunal are 
established to examine the dispute related to the same 
matter, to the greatest extent possible, the same persons 
shall be appointed by the parties to the disputes to serve 
on each of the separate arbitral tribunals. 
 
6.  Any request for the establishment of an arbitral 
tribunal shall indicate whether consultations under Article 
62 have been held, identify the factual basis for the 
complaint including the specific measures at issue and 
provide the legal basis of the complaint including the 
provisions of this Agreement alleged to have been breached 
and any other relevant provisions.  
 
Article 65 
Composition of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  An arbitral tribunal shall consist of three (3) 
arbitrators. 
 
2.  The complaining party and the party complained against 
shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of 
the request for the establishment of an arbitral tribunal, 
each appoint one (1) arbitrator who may be a national of 
any party to the dispute and propose up to three (3) 
candidates to serve as the third arbitrator who shall be 
the chair of the arbitral tribunal.  The third arbitrator 
shall not be a national of any party to the dispute, nor 
have his or her usual place of residence in any party to 
the dispute, nor be employed by any party to the dispute, 
nor have dealt with the dispute in any capacity.  
 
3.  The complaining party and the party complained against 
shall agree on and appoint the third arbitrator within 
forty-five (45) days after the date of receipt of the 
request for the establishment of an arbitral tribunal, 
taking into account the candidates proposed pursuant to 
paragraph 2.  If either the complaining party or the party 
complained against has not appointed an arbitrator pursuant 
to paragraph 2, or if the parties to the dispute fail to 
agree on and appoint the third arbitrator pursuant to this 
paragraph, the Director-General of the World Trade 
Organization shall immediately be requested to make the 
necessary appointments.  In the event that the Director-
General is a national of any party to the dispute, the 
Deputy Director-General or the officer next in seniority 
who is not a national of any party to the dispute shall be 
requested to make the necessary appointments.  Appointments 
made pursuant to this paragraph other than that of the 
third arbitrator shall be deemed to have been made by the 
complaining party or the party complained against which has 
failed to make such an appointment.  
 
 4.  The date of establishment of an arbitral tribunal 
shall be the date on which the third arbitrator is 
appointed pursuant to paragraph 3. 
 
5.  If an arbitrator appointed under this Article resigns 
or becomes unable to act, a succeeding arbitrator shall be 
appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the 
appointment of the original arbitrator and the succeeding 
arbitrator shall have all the powers and duties of the 
original arbitrator.  The work of the arbitral tribunal 
shall be suspended until the succeeding arbitrator is 
appointed. 
 
6.  Any person appointed as an arbitrator shall have 
expertise or experience in law, international trade, other 
matters covered by this Agreement or the resolution of 
disputes arising under international trade agreements.  An 
arbitrator shall be chosen strictly on the basis of 
objectivity, reliability, sound judgment and independence 
and shall conduct himself or herself on the same basis 
throughout the course of the arbitral tribunal proceedings.  
If a party to the dispute believes that an arbitrator is 
not adhering to the basis stated above, the parties to the 
dispute shall consult and if they agree, the arbitrator 
shall be removed and a new arbitrator shall be appointed in 
accordance with this Article.   
 
Article 66 
Third Parties 
 
1.  Any Party having a substantial interest in a dispute 
before an arbitral tribunal and having notified its 
interest in writing to the parties to the dispute and the 
rest of the Parties shall have an opportunity to make 
written submissions to the arbitral tribunal.  These 
submissions shall also be given to the parties to the 
dispute and may be reflected in the award of the arbitral 
tribunal.  
 
2.  A third party shall receive the submissions of the 
parties to the dispute to the first meeting of the arbitral 
tribunal. 
 
3.  If a third party considers that a measure that is 
already the subject of any arbitral tribunal proceedings 
nullifies or impairs benefits accruing to it under this 
Agreement, such third party may have recourse to normal 
dispute settlement procedures under this Chapter. 
 Article 67 
Functions of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  The arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Article 
64: 
 
  (a)  should make an objective assessment of the matter 
before it, including an examination of the facts 
of the case and the applicability of and 
conformity with the Agreement; 
 
  (b)  should consult with the parties to the dispute as 
appropriate and provide them with adequate 
opportunities for the development of a mutually 
satisfactory resolution; 
 
  (c)  shall make its award in accordance with this 
Agreement and applicable rules of international 
law; 
 
  (d)  shall set out, in its award, its findings of law 
and fact, together with the reasons therefor; 
 
  (e)  may, apart from giving its findings, include in 
its award suggested implementation options for 
the parties to the dispute to consider in 
conjunction with Article 71; and 
 
  (f)  cannot, in its award, add to or diminish the 
rights and obligations of any Party provided in 
this Agreement. 
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal may seek, from the Parties, such 
relevant information as it considers necessary and 
appropriate.  The Parties shall respond promptly and fully 
to any request by the arbitral tribunal for such 
information. 
 
3.  The arbitral tribunal may seek information from any 
relevant source and may consult experts to obtain their 
opinion on certain aspects of the matter.  With respect to 
factual issues concerning a scientific or other technical 
matter raised by any party to the dispute, the arbitral 
tribunal may request advisory reports in writing from 
experts.  The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of any 
party to the dispute or on its own initiative, select, in 
consultation with the parties to the dispute, no fewer than 
two (2) scientific or technical experts who shall assist 
the arbitral tribunal throughout its proceedings, but who 
shall not have the right to vote in respect of any decision 
to be made by the arbitral tribunal, including its award.  
Any information and technical advice so obtained shall be 
made available to the parties to the dispute. 
  
Article 68 
Proceedings of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  The rules and procedures as set out in this Article 
shall apply to the proceedings of an arbitral tribunal.   
 
2.  The parties to the dispute, in consultation with the 
arbitral tribunal, may agree to adopt additional rules and 
procedures not inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Article.  
 
Terms of Reference for Arbitral Tribunals 
 
3.  An arbitral tribunal shall have the following terms of 
reference: 
 
  "To examine, in the light of (the relevant provisions 
in this Agreement to be cited by the parties to the 
dispute), the matter referred to in the request for 
the establishment of an arbitral tribunal pursuant to 
Article 64, and to issue awards including findings, 
determinations and suggested implementation options, 
if any, as provided for in Article 67.”   
 
Written Submissions and Other Documents 
 
4.  Each party to the dispute shall deliver to the other 
parties to the dispute a copy of its written submissions to 
the arbitral tribunal.  
 
5.  In respect of any request, notice or other documents 
related to the arbitral tribunal proceedings that is not 
covered by paragraph 4, each party to the dispute may 
deliver a copy of the documents to the other parties to the 
dispute by facsimile, e-mail or other means of electronic 
transmission.  
 
6.  Any party to the dispute may at any time correct minor 
errors of a clerical nature in any request, notice, written 
submission or other documents related to the arbitral 
tribunal proceedings by delivering a new document clearly 
indicating the changes.  
 
 Timetable 
 
7.  After consulting the parties to the dispute, the 
arbitral tribunal shall as soon as practicable and whenever 
possible within seven (7) days after the establishment of 
the arbitral tribunal, fix the timetable for the arbitral 
tribunal process.  The timetable fixed for the arbitral 
tribunal shall include precise deadlines for written 
submissions by the parties to the dispute.  Modifications 
to such timetable may be made by the agreement of the 
parties to the dispute in consultation with the arbitral 
tribunal. 
 
Operation of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
8.  An arbitral tribunal shall meet in closed session.  
The parties to the dispute shall be present at the meetings 
only when invited by the arbitral tribunal to appear before 
it.  
 
9.  All third parties which have notified their interest 
in the dispute shall be invited in writing to present their 
views during  a session of the first meeting of the 
arbitral tribunal proceedings set aside for that purpose.  
All such third parties may be present during the entirety 
of this session.  
 
10.  The deliberations of the arbitral tribunal and the 
documents submitted to it shall be kept confidential.   
 
11.  Notwithstanding paragraph 10, any party to the dispute 
may make public statements of its positions and its views 
regarding the dispute, but shall treat as confidential, 
information and written submissions made by the other 
parties to the dispute to the arbitral tribunal which the 
other parties to the dispute have designated as 
confidential.  Where a party to the dispute submits a 
confidential version of its written submissions to the 
arbitral tribunal, it shall also, upon request of another 
party to the dispute, provide a non-confidential summary of 
the information or written submissions which may be 
disclosed publicly. 
 
12.  The venue for the arbitral tribunal proceedings shall 
be decided by mutual agreement between the complaining 
party and the party complained against.  If there is no 
agreement, the venue shall alternate among the capitals of 
the parties to the dispute with the first meeting of the 
arbitral tribunal proceedings to be held in one (1) of the 
capitals of the party complained against.  
 
 13.  The parties to the dispute shall be given the 
opportunity to attend any of the presentations, statements 
or rebuttals in the proceedings.  Any information provided 
and written submissions made to the arbitral tribunal by a 
party to the dispute, including any comments on the 
descriptive part of the draft award and responses to 
questions put by the arbitral tribunal, shall be made 
available to the other parties to the dispute. 
 
Article 69 
Draft Award and Award 
 
1.  The award of the arbitral tribunal shall be drafted 
without the presence of the parties to the dispute and in 
the light of the information provided and the statements 
made in the proceedings.  Opinions expressed in the award 
of the arbitral tribunal by its individual arbitrator shall 
be anonymous.  
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal shall, within ninety (90) days 
after the date of its establishment, issue to the parties 
to the dispute its draft award including both the 
descriptive part and its findings and conclusions for the 
purposes of enabling the parties to the dispute to review 
precise aspects of the draft award. 
 
3.  When the arbitral tribunal considers that it cannot 
issue its draft award within the ninety (90) day period 
referred to in paragraph 2, it shall inform the parties to 
the dispute in writing of the reasons for the delay 
together with the estimate of the period within which it 
will issue its draft award. 
 
4.  The parties to the dispute may submit comments in 
writing to the arbitral tribunal on the draft award within 
fifteen (15) days after the date of issuance of the draft 
award. 
 
5.  Where written comments by the parties to the dispute 
as provided for in paragraph 4 are received, the arbitral 
tribunal, on its own initiative or at the request of a 
party to the dispute, may reconsider its award and make any 
further examination that it considers appropriate. 
 
6.  The arbitral tribunal shall issue its award to the 
parties to the dispute within thirty (30) days after the 
issuance of the draft award.  
 
7.  The arbitral tribunal shall make its decisions, 
including its award, by consensus, failing which it may 
make its decisions by majority vote. 
 
 8.  The award of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and 
binding on the parties to the dispute. 
 
9.  The award of the arbitral tribunal shall be circulated 
to the Parties within ten (10) days after its issuance to 
the parties to the dispute. 
 
Article 70 
Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.  Where the parties to the dispute agree, the arbitral 
tribunal may suspend its work at any time for a period not 
exceeding twelve (12) months from the date of the joint 
notification of such agreement to the chair of the arbitral 
tribunal by the parties to the dispute.  Upon the request 
of any party to the dispute, the arbitral tribunal 
proceedings shall be resumed after such suspension.  If the 
work of the arbitral tribunal has been suspended for more 
than twelve (12) months, the authority of the arbitral 
tribunal shall lapse unless the parties to the dispute 
agree otherwise. 
 
2.  The parties to the dispute may agree to terminate the 
proceedings of an arbitral tribunal at any time before the 
issuance of the award by jointly so notifying the chair of 
the arbitral tribunal.  
 
3.  Before the arbitral tribunal issues its draft award, 
it may, at any stage of the proceedings, propose to the 
parties to the dispute that the dispute be settled 
amicably.  
 
Article 71 
Implementation of Award 
 
1.  The party complained against shall promptly comply 
with the award of the arbitral tribunal issued pursuant to 
Article 69. 
 
 
2.  The party complained against shall, within twenty (20) 
days after the date of issuance of the award, notify the 
complaining party of the period of time in which to 
implement the award.  If the complaining party considers 
the period of time notified to be unacceptable, it may 
refer the matter to an arbitral tribunal which then 
determines the reasonable implementation period.  The 
arbitral tribunal shall inform the parties to the dispute 
of its determination within thirty (30) days after the date 
of the referral of the matter to it.  
 
 3.  If the party complained against considers it 
impracticable to comply with the award within the 
implementation period as determined pursuant to paragraph 
2, the party complained against shall, no later than the 
expiry of that implementation period, enter into 
consultations with the complaining party, with a view to 
developing mutually satisfactory compensation.  If no 
satisfactory compensation has been agreed within twenty 
(20) days after the date of expiry of that implementation 
period, the complaining party may request an arbitral 
tribunal to determine the appropriate level of any 
suspension of the application to the party complained 
against of concessions or other obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
4.  If the complaining party considers that the party 
complained against has failed to comply with the award 
within the implementation period as determined pursuant to 
paragraph 2, the complaining party may refer the matter to 
an arbitral tribunal to confirm the failure and to 
determine the appropriate level of any suspension of the 
application to the party complained against of concessions 
or other obligations under this Agreement.  
 
5.  The arbitral tribunal established under this Article 
shall, wherever possible, have as its arbitrators, the 
arbitrators of the original arbitral tribunal.  If this is 
not possible, then the arbitrators of such arbitral 
tribunal shall be appointed pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Article 65. 
 
6.  Unless the parties to the dispute agree to a different 
period, the arbitral tribunal established under paragraphs 
3 and 4 shall issue its award within sixty (60) days after 
the date when the matter is referred to it.  
 
7.  The award of the arbitral tribunal established under 
this Article shall be binding on all the parties to the 
dispute. 
 
Article 72 
Compensation and the Suspension of Concessions 
 
1.  Compensation and the suspension of concessions or 
other obligations under this Agreement are temporary 
measures available in the event that the award is not 
implemented within a reasonable period of time.  However, 
neither compensation nor the suspension of concessions or 
other obligations under this Agreement is preferred to full 
implementation of the award to bring a measure into 
conformity with this Agreement.  Compensation, if granted, 
shall be consistent with this Agreement. 
 
 2.  The application of concessions or other obligations 
under this Agreement shall not be suspended before the 
commencement and during the course of the proceedings under 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 71.  
 
3.  The suspension of the application of concessions or 
other obligations under paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 71 
may only be implemented after the complaining party 
notifies the party complained against and the rest of the 
Parties that the complaining party intends to suspend the 
application to the party complained against of concessions 
or other obligations under this Agreement.  The party 
complained against and the rest of the Parties shall be 
informed of the commencement of the suspension and which 
concessions or other obligations under this Agreement would 
be suspended. 
 
4.  In considering what concessions or other obligations 
under this Agreement to be suspended under paragraphs 3 and 
4 of Article 71, such suspension shall: 
 
  (a)  be temporary, and be discontinued when the 
parties to the dispute reach a mutually 
satisfactory resolution or where compliance with 
the award is effected; 
 
  (b)  be restricted to the same level of nullification 
or impairment that is attributable to the failure 
to comply with the award;  and 
 
  (c)  be restricted to the same sector or sectors as 
those in which the arbitral tribunal has found 
the nullification or impairment, unless it is not 
practicable or effective to suspend the 
application of concessions or obligations in such 
sector or sectors, in which case, the complaining 
party may suspend concessions or benefits in 
other sectors under this Agreement.  
 
5.  If the party complained against considers that the 
suspension of concessions or other obligations under this 
Agreement by the complaining party is inconsistent with the 
provisions of paragraph 4, the matter shall be referred to 
an arbitral tribunal.  For the purposes of the arbitral 
tribunal established under this Article, paragraph 5 of 
Article 71 shall apply, mutatis mutandis. 
 
6.  Unless the parties to the dispute agree to a different 
period, the arbitral tribunal established under this 
Article shall issue its award within sixty (60) days after 
the date when the matter is referred to it.  Such award 
shall be binding on all the parties to the dispute. 
 
 Article 73 
Expenses 
 
1.  The complaining party and the party complained against 
shall respectively bear the costs of the arbitrators which 
they appointed, and their own expenses and legal costs. 
 
2.  Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
costs of the chair of the arbitral tribunal and other 
expenses associated with the conduct of the proceedings of 
the arbitral tribunal shall be borne in equal parts by the 
parties to a dispute. 
 
3.  The arbitral tribunal shall keep a record and render a 
final account of all general expenses incurred in 
connection with the proceedings, including those paid to 
their assistants, designated note takers or other 
individuals that it retains. 
 
Chapter 10 
Final Provisions 
 
Article 74 
Table of Contents, Headings and Subheadings 
 
  The table of contents, headings and subheadings are 
inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not 
affect the interpretation of this Agreement.  
 
Article 75 
Review 
 
  The Parties shall undertake a general review of the 
implementation and operation of this Agreement in the fifth 
calendar year following the calendar year in which this 
Agreement enters into force pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
Article 79, and every five (5) years thereafter, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Parties. 
 
Article 76 
Annexes and Notes 
 
  The Annexes including attachment and Notes to this 
Agreement shall form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Article 77 
Amendments 
 
1.  This Agreement may be amended by agreement among the 
Parties.  
 
 