FIRST PROTOCOL TO AMEND THE  
AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP 
AMONG MEMBER STATES OF THE ASSOCIATION  
OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS AND JAPAN 
 
 
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the 
Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, 
the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, 
the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam, Member States of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “ASEAN”), and Japan; 
 
RECALLING the Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Partnership 
among Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
and Japan (hereinafter referred to as the “AJCEP Agreement”), which 
entered into force on 1 December 2008; 
 
ENCOURAGED  by  the  achievements  of  the  relationship  between 
ASEAN and Japan for more than 40 years, particularly in the economic 
field; 
 
DESIRING to further enhance the competitiveness of the Member States 
of  ASEAN  (hereinafter  referred  to  collectively  as  “ASEAN  Member 
States” or individually as “ASEAN Member State”) and Japan by using 
the AJCEP Agreement as the main vehicle; 
 
RECALLING  FURTHER  the  Vision  Statement  on  ASEAN-Japan 
Friendship and Cooperation (Shared Vision, Shared Identity, Shared 
Future)  adopted  by  the  Heads  of  State  or  Government  of  ASEAN 
Member States and Japan to commemorate the 40th Year of ASEAN-
Japan  Friendship  and  Cooperation  where  they  expressed  their 
commitment to further enhancing comprehensive economic partnership 
through, among others, strengthening cooperation in areas of mutual 
interest related to trade in goods, trade in services and investment, 
including enhancing the utilisation of the AJCEP Agreement and the 
implementation  of  the  ASEAN-Japan  10-Year  Strategic  Economic 
Cooperation Roadmap; 
 
NOTING Articles 50 and 51 of the AJCEP Agreement, which reflect the 
intention of ASEAN Member States and Japan to discuss and negotiate 
provisions for trade in services and investment, and incorporate the 
results of the negotiations into the AJCEP Agreement; 
 
  
 
SEEKING to incorporate into the AJCEP Agreement robust Chapters on 
trade in services, movement of natural persons and investment and 
confident that the incorporation of these Chapters will strengthen the 
partnership  between  ASEAN  and  Japan,  and  support  economic 
integration in the East Asian region; and 
 
NOTING FURTHER that Article 77 of the AJCEP Agreement provides 
for amendments thereto to be agreed upon by the Parties; 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
Article 1 
References to the Union of Myanmar 
 
The references to “the Union of Myanmar” in the AJCEP Agreement shall 
be deemed to read “the Republic of the Union of Myanmar”. 
 
Article 2 
Incorporation of New Annexes and Amendment to 
the Table of Contents of the AJCEP Agreement  
 
1.  Appendices 1 through 5 of this Protocol shall constitute an integral 
part of this Protocol. 
 
2.  The table of contents of the AJCEP Agreement shall be replaced 
by the new table of contents as set out in Appendix 1 of this Protocol. 
 
3.  Appendices 2 through 5 of this Protocol shall be incorporated into 
the  AJCEP  Agreement  as  Annexes  6  through  9  of  the  AJCEP 
Agreement, respectively. 
 
Article 3 
Amendment to Chapter 1 (General Provisions) of  
the AJCEP Agreement 
 
1.  Article  8  of  the  AJCEP  Agreement  shall  be  replaced  by  the 
following: 
 
“Article 8 
Security Exceptions 
 
1.  For the purposes of this Agreement, nothing in this 
Agreement shall be construed: 
 
2 
  
 
(a)  to require a Party to furnish any information, 
the disclosure of which it considers contrary to 
its essential security interests; 
(b)  to  prevent  a  Party  from  taking  any  action 
which it considers necessary for the protection 
of its essential security interests: 
 
(i)  relating  to  the  traffic  in  arms, 
ammunition and implements of war and 
to  such  traffic  in  other  goods  and 
materials or relating to the supply of 
services  as  carried  on,  directly  or 
indirectly, for the purpose of supplying 
or  provisioning  a  military 
establishment; 
 
(ii)  taken  in  time  of  war,  domestic 
emergency,  or  other  emergency  in 
international relations; 
 
(iii)  relating  to  fissionable  and  fusionable 
materials or the materials from which 
they are derived; or 
 
(iv)  taken  to  protect  critical  public 
infrastructures,  including 
communication,  power  and  water 
infrastructures,  from  deliberate 
attempts  intended  to  disable  or 
degrade such infrastructures; or 
 
(c)  to prevent a Party from taking any action in 
pursuance of its obligations under the United 
Nations  Charter  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
 
2.  The Joint Committee shall be informed to the fullest 
extent possible of measures taken under subparagraphs 
1(b) and (c) and of their termination.” 
 
2.  Subparagraph 2(e) of Article 11 of the AJCEP Agreement shall be 
replaced by the following: 
 
“(e)  adopt: 
 
3 
  
 
(i)  the Implementing Regulations referred 
to in Rule 11 of Annex 4; 
 
 
(ii)  procedures on the implementation of 
Annex  2  by  the  Parties  after  its 
amendment, upon recommendation of 
the Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin 
referred  to  in  Article  37.  These 
procedures shall address, inter alia, the 
date(s) on which the amended Annex 2 
shall be applicable to applications for, 
and  the  issuance  of,  Certificates  of 
Origin in accordance with Annex 4; 
 
(iii)  amendments  to  this  Agreement 
pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 77; 
and 
 
(iv)  any necessary decisions; and” 
 
Article 4 
Amendment to Chapter 6 (Trade in Services) 
of the AJCEP Agreement 
 
Chapter 6 of the AJCEP Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 
 
“Chapter 6 
Trade in Services 
 
Article 50.1 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
(a)  “a  service  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental  authority”  means  any  service 
which  is  supplied  neither  on  a  commercial 
basis  nor  in  competition  with  one  or  more 
service suppliers; 
 
(b)  “aircraft  repair  and  maintenance  services” 
means such activities when undertaken on an 
aircraft or a part thereof while it is withdrawn 
from services and does not include so-called 
line maintenance; 
4 
  
 
 
(c)  “commercial  presence”  means  any  type  of 
business  or  professional  establishment, 
including through: 
 
(i)  the  constitution,  acquisition  or 
maintenance of a juridical person; or 
 
(ii)  the  creation  or  maintenance  of  a 
branch or a representative office, 
 
within the territory of a Party for the purpose 
of supplying a service; 
 
(d)  “computer  reservation  system  services” 
means  services  provided  by  computerised 
systems  that  contain  information  about  air 
carriers’ schedules, availability, fares and fare 
rules,  through  which  reservations  may  be 
made or tickets may be issued; 
 
(e)  “direct  taxes”  comprises  all  taxes  on  total 
income,  on  total  capital  or  on  elements  of 
income or of capital, including taxes on gains 
from  the  alienation  of  property,  taxes  on 
estates, inheritances and gifts, and taxes on 
the total amounts of wages or salaries paid by 
enterprises,  as  well  as  taxes  on  capital 
appreciation; 
 
(f)  “juridical person” means any legal entity duly 
constituted  or  otherwise  organised  under 
applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, 
and  whether  privately-owned  or 
governmentally-owned,  including  any 
corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, 
sole proprietorship or association; 
 
(g)  “juridical person of another Party” means a 
juridical person which is either: 
 
(i)  constituted  or  otherwise  organised 
under the law of that other Party, and is 
engaged  in  substantive  business 
operations in the territory of that other 
Party or any other Party; or 
5 
  
 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service 
through commercial presence, owned 
or controlled by: 
 
(A)  natural  persons  of  that  other 
Party; or 
 
(B)  juridical  persons  of  that  other 
Party  identified  under 
subparagraph (i); 
 
(h)  A juridical person is: 
 
(i)  “owned” by persons of a Party if more 
than 50 per cent of the equity interest in 
it is beneficially owned by persons of 
that Party; 
 
(ii)  “controlled”  by  persons  of  a  Party  if 
such persons have the power to name 
a majority of its directors or otherwise 
to legally direct its actions; and 
 
(iii)  “affiliated” with another person when it 
controls, or is controlled by, that other 
person; or when it and the other person 
are both controlled by the same person; 
 
(i)  “measure” means any measure by a Party, 
whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, 
procedure, decision, administrative action, or 
any other form; 
 
Note:  “measure”  shall  include  taxation 
measures to the extent covered by the 
GATS. 
 
(j)  “measures by a Party” means measures taken 
by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments 
and authorities of a Party; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the 
exercise  of  powers  delegated  by 
6 
  
 
central, regional or local governments 
or authorities of a Party; 
 
(k)  “measures  by  a  Party  affecting  trade  in 
services” includes measures in respect of:  
 
(i)  the  purchase,  payment  or  use  of  a 
service; 
 
 
(ii)  the access to and use of, in connection 
with the supply of a service, services 
which are required by the Party to be 
offered to the public generally; and 
 
 
(iii)  the  presence,  including  commercial 
presence, of persons of a Party for the 
supply of a service in the territory of 
another Party; 
 
 
(l)  “monopoly supplier of a service” means any 
person, public or private, which in the relevant 
market of the territory of a Party is authorised 
or  established  formally  or  in  effect  by  that 
Party as the sole supplier of that service; 
 
 
(m)  “natural  person  of  another  Party”  means  a 
natural person who resides in the territory of 
that other Party or elsewhere, and who under 
the law of that other Party: 
 
 
(i)  is a national of that other Party; or 
 
 
(ii)  has the right of permanent residence in 
that other Party, in the case of a Party 
which accords substantially the same 
treatment to its permanent residents as 
it  does  to  its  nationals  in  respect  of 
measures affecting trade in services, 
as notified to all other Parties after the 
entry into force of the First Protocol to 
7 
  
 
Amend  the  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive Economic Partnership 
Among  Member  States  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
and Japan (hereinafter referred to as 
“the First Protocol”), provided that no 
Party  is  obliged  to  accord  to  such 
permanent  residents  treatment  more 
favourable than would be accorded by 
that  other  Party  to  such  permanent 
residents.  Such  notification  shall 
include the assurance to assume, with 
respect to the permanent residents, in 
accordance  with  its  laws  and 
regulations,  the  same  responsibilities 
that other Party bears with respect to its 
nationals; 
Note:  In the case of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia,  the  Republic  of 
Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Malaysia, 
the  Republic  of  the  Union  of 
Myanmar,  the  Republic  of  the 
Philippines,  the  Kingdom  of 
Thailand, the Socialist Republic 
of Viet Nam and Japan, natural 
person of another Party shall be 
limited to a natural person who 
resides  in  the  territory  of  that 
other  Party  or  elsewhere  and 
who under the law of that other 
Party is a national of that other 
Party. Therefore, in line with the 
principle  of  reciprocity,  this 
Chapter  shall  not  apply  to  the 
permanent  residents  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Cambodia,  the 
Republic of Indonesia, the Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Malaysia,  the  Republic  of  the 
Union of Myanmar, the Republic 
of the Philippines, the Kingdom 
of  Thailand,  the  Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam and Japan. 
Once  any  of  these  Parties 
enacts its laws on the treatment 
8 
  
 
of  permanent  residents  of 
another  Party  or  non-Party, 
there  shall  be  negotiations 
among the Parties on the issue 
of whether to include permanent 
residents  in  the  coverage  of 
natural  person  under  this 
Chapter in respect of that Party. 
 
(n)  “person” means either a natural person or a 
juridical person; 
 
(o)  “sector” of a service means: 
 
(i)  with  reference  to  a  specific 
commitment,  one  or  more,  or  all, 
subsectors of that service, as specified 
in  a  Party’s  Schedule  of  Specific 
Commitments; or 
 
(ii)  otherwise,  the  whole  of  that  service 
sector, including all of its subsectors; 
 
(p)  “selling  and  marketing  of  air  transport 
services”  means  opportunities  for  the  air 
carrier concerned to sell and market freely its 
air transport services including all aspects of 
marketing  such  as  market  research, 
advertising and distribution. These activities 
do  not  include  the  pricing  of  air  transport 
services nor the applicable conditions; 
 
(q)  “services” includes any service in any sector 
except services supplied in the exercise of 
governmental authority; 
 
(r)  “service consumer” means any person that 
receives or uses a service; 
 
(s)  “service of another Party” means a service 
which is supplied: 
 
(i)  from  or  in  the  territory  of  that  other 
Party,  or  in  the  case  of  maritime 
transport, by a vessel registered under 
the laws of that other Party, or by a 
9 
  
 
person  of  that  other  Party  which 
supplies  the  service  through  the 
operation of a vessel and/or its use in 
whole or in part; or 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service 
through  commercial  presence  or 
through  the  presence  of  natural 
persons, by a service supplier of that 
other Party; 
 
(t)  “service  supplier”  means  any  person  that 
supplies a service; 
 
Note:  Where  the  service  is  not  supplied 
directly  by  a  juridical  person  but 
through  other  forms  of  commercial 
presence  such  as  a  branch  or  a 
representative  office,  the  service 
supplier (i.e. the juridical person) shall, 
nonetheless,  through  such  presence 
be accorded the treatment provided for 
service  suppliers  under  this 
Agreement.  Such  treatment  shall  be 
extended  to  the  presence  through 
which the service is supplied and need 
not be extended to any other parts of 
the supplier located outside the territory 
where the service is supplied. 
 
(u)  “supply of a service” includes the production, 
distribution, marketing, sale and delivery of a 
service; 
 
(v)  “trade  in  services”  means  the  supply  of  a 
service: 
 
(i)  from  the  territory  of  a  Party  into  the 
territory  of  any  other  Party  (“cross-
border supply”); 
 
(ii)  in the territory of a Party to the service 
consumer  of  any  other  Party 
(“consumption abroad”); 
 
10 
  
 
(iii)  by a service supplier of a Party, through 
commercial presence in the territory of 
any  other  Party  (“commercial 
presence”); 
 
(iv)  by a service supplier of a Party, through 
presence of natural persons of a Party 
in  the  territory  of  any  other  Party 
(“presence of natural persons”); and 
11 
  
 
(w)  “traffic rights” means the rights for scheduled 
and non-scheduled services to operate and/or 
to  carry  passengers,  cargo  and  mail  for 
remuneration or hire from, to, within, or over the 
territory of a Party, including points to be served, 
routes  to  be  operated,  types  of  traffic  to  be 
carried, capacity to be provided, tariffs to be 
charged and their conditions, and criteria for 
designation of airlines, including such criteria as 
number, ownership and control. 
 
Article 50.2 
Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to measures by a Party 
affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  government procurement; 
 
(b)  cabotage in maritime transport services; 
 
(c)  in respect of air transport services, measures 
affecting  traffic  rights,  however  granted,  or 
measures affecting services directly related to 
the  exercise  of  traffic  rights,  other  than 
measures affecting: 
 
(i)  aircraft  repair  and  maintenance 
services; 
 
(ii)  the  selling  and  marketing  of  air 
transport services; and 
 
(iii)  computer reservation system services; 
and 
 
(d)  measures by a Party affecting natural persons 
of  another  Party  seeking  access  to  the 
employment market of the former Party, or 
measures regarding nationality or citizenship, 
or residence or employment on a permanent 
basis. 
 
12 
  
 
3.  The  Annex  A  to  Chapter  6  provides  for 
supplementary  provisions  to  this  Chapter  on  financial 
services, including scope and definitions. 
 
4.  The  Annex  B  to  Chapter  6  provides  for 
supplementary  provisions  to  this  Chapter  on 
telecommunications  services,  including  scope  and 
definitions. 
 
Article 50.3 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  accord  to  services  and  service 
suppliers of another Party treatment no less favourable than 
that it accords to like services and service suppliers of any 
other Party or a non-Party. 
 
2.  Paragraph 1 shall not apply to any measure by a 
Party with respect to sectors, subsectors or activities, as set 
out in Annex 7. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding  paragraphs  1  and  2,  the  Parties 
listed in Annex 8 shall be exempted from paragraphs 1 and 
2 and shall endeavour to consider according to services and 
service  suppliers  of  another  Party  treatment  no  less 
favourable than that they accord to like services and service 
suppliers of any other Party or a non-Party. Any decision of 
a Party with regard to this paragraph shall not be subject to 
dispute settlement procedures provided for in Chapter 9. 
 
Article 50.4 
Transparency 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  that  transparent  measures 
governing trade in services are important in facilitating the 
ability of service suppliers to gain access to, and operate in, 
each other’s markets. Each Party shall promote regulatory 
transparency in trade in services. 
 
Publication 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  publish  promptly  and,  except  in 
emergency situations, at the latest by the time of their entry 
into force: 
 
13 
  
 
(a)  all relevant measures of general application 
affecting trade in services; and 
 
(b)  all international agreements pertaining to, or 
affecting, trade in services to which that Party 
is a party. 
 
3.  To the extent possible, each Party shall make the 
measures and international agreements of the kind referred 
to in paragraph 2 available on the internet. 
 
4.  Where publication referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 
is not practicable, such information shall be made otherwise 
publicly available. 
 
5.  To the extent possible and required under its laws 
and  regulations,  each  Party  shall  provide  a  reasonable 
opportunity  for  comments  by  interested  persons  of  the 
Parties on any regulation of general application affecting 
trade in services that it proposes to adopt, amend or repeal, 
before adoption, amendment or repeal, and publish the 
comments  received  from  the  public  and  results  of  its 
consideration to the comments. 
 
Note:  For greater certainty, a Party may consolidate 
the  comments  and  the  results,  and  may 
publish them in a separate document from the 
one  that  sets  forth  the  final  text  of  the 
proposed regulation. 
 
Contact Points 
 
6.  Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  to 
facilitate communications among the Parties on any matter 
covered by this Chapter. Upon the request of another Party, 
the contact point shall: 
 
(a)  identify the office or official responsible for the 
relevant matter; and 
 
(b)  assist  as  necessary  in  facilitating 
communications  with  the  requesting  Party 
with respect to that matter. 
 
7.  Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by 
any other Party for specific information on: 
14 
  
 
 
(a)  any  measures  referred  to  in  subparagraph 
2(a) or international agreements referred to in 
subparagraph 2(b); and 
 
(b)  any new, or any changes to existing, laws, 
regulations or administrative guidelines which 
significantly affect trade in services covered 
by the Party’s specific commitments under this 
Chapter, whether or not that other Party has 
been  previously  notified  of  the  new  or 
changed  law,  regulation  or  administrative 
guideline. 
 
8.  Each Party shall, to the extent possible and required 
under its laws and regulations, respond to enquiries from 
interested persons of the Parties regarding any relevant 
measure of general application of the Party relating to the 
subject matter of this Chapter. 
 
9.  Each Party shall prepare a non-legally binding list 
(transparency list) on laws and, to the extent possible, other 
measures  at  the  central  government  level,  which  are 
inconsistent with the obligations under Articles 50.3, 50.17 
and 50.18. Such a list shall cover (i) the sectors where 
specific commitments are undertaken in this Agreement 
and/or in any other agreements in force on the date of entry 
into force of the First Protocol pertaining to or affecting trade 
in services to which the Party preparing the list is a party 
and (ii) to the extent possible, other sectors that are not 
included in the sectors referred to in (i), shall be exchanged 
among the Parties and made public within six (6) years for 
newer ASEAN Member States and four (4) years for the 
remaining Parties, from the date of entry into force of the 
First Protocol, and may be subject to future review and 
revision as necessary. This list shall not form an integral 
part of this Agreement and shall not be subject to dispute 
settlement procedures provided for in Chapter 9. The list 
shall include the following elements: 
 
(a)  sector and sub-sector or matter; 
 
(b)  type  of  inconsistency  (i.e.  Most-Favoured-
Nation  Treatment,  Market  Access  and/or 
National Treatment); 
 
15 
  
 
(c)  legal source or authority of the measure; and 
 
(d)  succinct description of the measure. 
 
Note:  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed 
to oblige any Party to enter into negotiations 
with any other Party in respect of any matter 
relating  to  the  list.  The  list  under  this 
paragraph  will  be  made  solely  for  the 
purposes of transparency, and shall not be 
construed to affect the rights and obligations 
of  a  Party  under  this  Chapter.  For  greater 
certainty, the information contained in this list 
will also not prevent Parties from introducing 
new  measures  or  changes.  Any  review  or 
revision under this paragraph will be solely for 
the purposes of updating such list. 
 
10.  In preparation of such list, a Party, upon request of 
another  Party,  may  provide  technical  assistance  to  the 
requesting Party, subject to the available resources. 
 
Article 50.5 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.  In  sectors  where  specific  commitments  are 
undertaken under Articles 50.17 through 50.23, each Party 
shall  ensure  that  all  measures  of  general  application 
affecting trade in services are administered in a reasonable, 
objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.  (a)  Each Party shall maintain or institute as soon 
as  practicable  judicial,  arbitral  or 
administrative tribunals or procedures which 
provide, at the request of an affected service 
supplier, for the prompt review of, and where 
justified,  appropriate  remedies  for, 
administrative  decisions  affecting  trade  in 
services.  Where  such  procedures  are  not 
independent of the agency entrusted with the 
administrative decision concerned, the Party 
shall  ensure  that  the  procedures  in  fact 
provide for an objective and impartial review. 
 
(b)  Subparagraph 2(a) shall not be construed to 
require a Party to institute such tribunals or 
16 
  
 
procedures where this would be inconsistent 
with its constitutional structure or the nature of 
its legal system. 
 
3.  Where authorisation is required for the supply of a 
service on which a specific commitment under this Chapter 
has been made, the competent authorities of each Party 
shall: 
 
(a)  in the case of an incomplete application, at the 
request  of  the  applicant,  identify,  where 
practicable, all the additional information that 
is required to complete the application and 
provide the opportunity to remedy deficiencies 
within a reasonable timeframe; 
 
(b)  at  the  request  of  the  applicant,  provide, 
without undue delay, information concerning 
the status of the application; and 
 
(c)  if an application is terminated or denied, to the 
extent possible and required under its laws 
and  regulations,  inform  the  applicant,  in 
writing and without delay, of the reasons for 
such  action.  The  applicant  will  have  the 
possibility of resubmitting, at its discretion, a 
new application. 
 
4.  The  competent  authorities  of  a  Party  shall 
endeavour, in accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the Party, to establish standards for taking administrative 
decisions  in  response  to  submitted  applications.  The 
competent authorities shall endeavour to: 
 
(a)  make such standards as specific as possible; 
and 
 
(b)  make  such  standards  publicly  available 
except  when  it  would  extraordinarily  raise 
administrative difficulties for the Party. 
 
5.  The  competent  authorities  of  a  Party  shall 
endeavour, in accordance with the laws and regulations of 
the Party, to: 
 
17 
  
 
(a)  establish standard periods of time between 
the receipt of applications by the competent 
authorities  and  the  administrative  decisions 
taken in response to submitted applications; 
and 
 
(b)  make publicly available such periods of time, 
if established. 
 
6.  With a view to ensuring that measures relating to 
qualification  requirements  and  procedures,  technical 
standards and licensing requirements of service suppliers 
of another Party do not constitute unnecessary barriers to 
trade in services, each Party shall aim to ensure that such 
requirements are, inter alia: 
 
(a)  based on objective and transparent criteria, 
such as competence and the ability to supply 
the service; 
 
(b)  not  more  burdensome  than  necessary  to 
ensure the quality of the service; and 
 
(c)  in  the  case  of  licensing  procedures,  not  in 
themselves a restriction on the supply of the 
service. 
 
7.  (a)  In sectors in which a Party has undertaken 
specific commitments subject to any terms, 
limitations, conditions or qualifications set out 
therein, that Party shall not apply licensing 
and qualification requirements and technical 
standards that nullify or impair its obligation 
under this Chapter in a manner which: 
 
(i)  does  not  comply  with  the  criteria 
outlined in subparagraph 6(a), (b) or 
(c); and 
 
(ii)  could  not  reasonably  have  been 
expected of that Party at the time the 
specific commitments in those sectors 
were made. 
 
(b)  In determining whether a Party is in conformity 
with the obligation under subparagraph 7(a), 
18 
  
 
account  shall  be  taken  of  international 
standards  of  relevant  international 
organisations applied by that Party. 
 
Note:  The  term  “relevant  international 
organisations”  refers  to  international 
bodies whose membership is open to 
the relevant bodies of at least all the 
Parties. 
 
8.  In  sectors  where  specific  commitments  regarding 
professional  services  are  undertaken,  each  Party  shall 
provide for adequate procedures to verify the competence 
of professionals of any other Party. 
 
9.  If the results of the negotiations related to paragraph 
4 of Article VI of the GATS enter into effect, this Article shall 
be amended, as appropriate, after consultations among the 
Parties,  to  bring  those  results  into  effect  under  this 
Agreement. 
 
Article 50.6 
Administrative Guidance 
 
1.  Where  a  competent  authority  of  the  central 
government of a Party renders administrative guidance with 
regard  to  any  matter  covered  by  this  Chapter,  such 
competent  authority  is  encouraged  to  ensure  that  the 
administrative guidance does not exceed the scope of its 
competence. The competent authority is also encouraged 
to ensure that the administrative guidance does not require 
the person concerned to comply with the administrative 
guidance without voluntary cooperation of such person. 
 
2.  Such competent authority is encouraged to ensure, 
in accordance with the laws and regulations of its Party, that 
the person concerned is not treated unfavourably solely on 
account  of  non-compliance  of  such  person  with  such 
administrative guidance. 
 
3.  Such competent authority is encouraged to provide, 
in accordance with the laws and regulations of its Party, to 
the person concerned in writing, upon the request of such 
person, the purposes and contents of the administrative 
guidance. 
 
19 
  
 
 
4.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Article,  the  term 
“administrative  guidance”  means  any  guidance, 
recommendation or advice by a competent authority of the 
central government of a Party which requires a person to do 
or refrain from doing any act but does not create, impose 
limitations on, or in any way affect, rights and obligations of 
such person in order to pursue administrative objectives. 
 
Article 50.7 
Recognition 
 
1.  For the purposes of the fulfilment, in whole or in part, 
of its respective standards or criteria for the authorisation, 
licensing or certification of service suppliers, and subject to 
requirements of paragraph 4, a Party may recognise the 
education or experience obtained, requirements met, or 
licences or certifications granted in another Party. Such 
recognition, which may be achieved through harmonisation 
or  otherwise,  may  be  based  upon  an  agreement  or 
arrangement  with  the  Parties  concerned  or  may  be 
accorded autonomously. 
 
2.  Two (2) or more Parties may enter into, or encourage 
their relevant competent bodies to enter into, negotiations 
on recognition of qualification requirements, qualification 
procedures, licensing and/or registration procedures for the 
purposes  of  fulfilment  of  their  respective  standards  or 
criteria  for  the  authorisation,  licensing  or  certification  of 
service suppliers. 
 
3.  A  Party  that  is  a  party  to  an  agreement  or 
arrangement of the type referred to in paragraph 1, whether 
existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for other 
interested Parties to negotiate their accession to such an 
agreement or arrangement or to negotiate comparable ones 
with it. Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it 
shall afford adequate opportunity for any other Party to 
demonstrate  that  education,  experience,  licences,  or 
certifications obtained or requirements met in the territory of 
that other Party should be recognised. 
 
4.  A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner 
which would constitute a means of discrimination between 
countries in the application of its standards or criteria for the 
20 
  
 
authorisation, licensing or certification of services suppliers, 
or a disguised restriction on trade in services. 
5.  Where  a  Party  recognises,  by  an  agreement  or 
arrangement between the Party and another Party or a non-
Party or unilaterally, the education or experience obtained, 
requirements met, or licences or certifications granted in 
that other Party or the non-Party, nothing in Article 50.3 
shall be construed to require the former Party to accord 
such recognition to the education or experience obtained, 
requirements met, or licences or certifications granted in the 
other Parties. 
 
Article 50.8 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier 
of a service in its territory does not, in the supply of the 
monopoly service in the relevant market, act in a manner 
inconsistent with that Party’s obligations under Article 50.3 
and specific commitments. 
 
2.  Where a Party’s monopoly supplier competes, either 
directly or through an affiliated company, in the supply of a 
service outside the scope of its monopoly rights and which 
is subject to that Party’s specific commitments, the Party 
shall  ensure  that  such  a  supplier  does  not  abuse  its 
monopoly  position  to  act  in  its  territory  in  a  manner 
inconsistent with such commitments. 
 
3.  If a Party has a reason to believe that a monopoly 
supplier of a service of any other Party is acting in a manner 
inconsistent with paragraph 1 or 2, the former Party may 
request  that  other  Party  establishing,  maintaining  or 
authorising such supplier to provide specific information 
concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4.  This Article shall also apply to cases of exclusive 
service suppliers, where a Party, formally or in effect: 
 
(a)  authorises or establishes a small number of 
service suppliers; and 
 
(b)  substantially  prevents  competition  among 
those suppliers in its territory. 
 
 
21 
  
 
 
 
Article 50.9 
Business Practices 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that certain business practices 
of service suppliers, other than those falling under Article 
50.8, may restrain competition and thereby restrict trade in 
services. 
 
2.  Each Party shall, at the request of any other Party, 
enter into consultations with a view to eliminating practices 
referred  to  in  paragraph  1.  The  Party  addressed  shall 
accord full and sympathetic consideration to such a request 
and shall cooperate through the supply of publicly available 
non-confidential information of relevance to the matter in 
question.  The  Party  addressed  shall  also  provide  other 
information available to the requesting Party, subject to its 
laws  and  to  the  conclusion  of  satisfactory  agreement 
concerning the safeguarding of its confidentiality by the 
requesting Party. 
 
Article 50.10 
Safeguards 
 
1.  The  Parties  note  the  multilateral  negotiations 
pursuant  to  Article  X  of  the  GATS  on  the  question  of 
emergency safeguard measures based on the principle of 
non-discrimination. Upon the conclusion of such multilateral 
negotiations,  the  Parties  shall  conduct  a  review  for  the 
purpose  of  discussing  appropriate  amendments  to  this 
Chapter so as to incorporate the results of such multilateral 
negotiations. 
 
2.  In  the  event  that  the  implementation  of  the 
commitments  made  in  this  Chapter  causes  substantial 
adverse impact to a service sector of a Party before the 
conclusion  of  the  multilateral  negotiations  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1, the affected Party may request consultations 
with the Party or Parties concerned. The requested Party or 
Parties shall enter into consultations with the requesting 
Party  on  the  commitments  that  the  requested  Party  or 
Parties  consider  may  have  caused  substantial  adverse 
impact  and  on  the  possibility  of  the  requesting  Party 
adopting  any  measure  to  alleviate  such  impact.  The 
22 
  
 
requesting  Party  shall  notify  all  the  other  Parties  of  its 
request for consultations under this paragraph. 
 
3.  Any measures taken pursuant to paragraph 2 shall 
be mutually agreed by the consulting Parties. 
 
4.  The consulting Parties shall notify the results of the 
consultations to all other Parties as soon as practicable and 
by no later than the next meeting of the Sub-Committee on 
Trade in Services referred to in Article 50.24 following the 
conclusion of consultations. 
 
Article 50.11 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1.  Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 
50.12, a Party shall not apply restrictions on international 
transfers and payments for current transactions relating to 
its specific commitments. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and 
obligations of the Parties as members of the International 
Monetary Fund (hereinafter referred to as “IMF”) under the 
Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Articles of Agreement of the 
IMF”), including the use of exchange actions which are in 
conformity  with  the  Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  IMF, 
provided that a Party shall not impose restrictions on any 
capital  transactions  inconsistently  with  its  specific 
commitments regarding such transactions, except under 
Article 50.12 or at the request of the IMF. 
 
Article 50.12 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
1.  In the event of serious balance of payments and 
external financial difficulties or threat thereof, a Party may 
adopt or maintain restrictions on trade in services on which 
it  has  undertaken  specific  commitments  including  on 
payments  or  transfers  for  transactions  related  to  such 
commitments. 
 
2.  The restrictions referred to in paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  shall not discriminate among Parties; 
 
23 
  
 
(b)  shall  be  consistent  with  the  Articles  of 
Agreement of the IMF; 
 
(c)  shall  avoid  unnecessary  damage  to  the 
commercial, economic and financial interests 
of the other Parties; 
 
(d)  shall not exceed those necessary to deal with 
the circumstances described in paragraph 1; 
and 
 
(e)  shall  be  temporary  and  be  phased  out 
progressively  as  the  situation  specified  in 
paragraph 1 improves. 
 
3.  In determining the incidence of such restrictions, a 
Party may give priority to the supply of services which are 
more  essential  to  its  economic  or  development 
programmes.  However,  such  restrictions  shall  not  be 
adopted or maintained for the purposes of protecting a 
particular service sector. 
 
 
4.  Any  restrictions  adopted  or  maintained  under 
paragraph 1, or any changes therein, shall be promptly 
notified to the other Parties. 
 
 
5.  Where a Party has adopted restrictions pursuant to 
paragraph  1  and  if  consultations  in  relation  to  the 
restrictions adopted by it are not taking place at the World 
Trade Organization, the Party, upon request, shall promptly 
commence consultations with any requesting Party in order 
to review those restrictions adopted by the former Party. 
 
Article 50.13 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not 
applied in a manner which would constitute a means of 
arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  between  Parties 
where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
trade in services, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed 
to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any Party of 
measures: 
 
24 
  
 
(a)  necessary  to  protect  public  morals  or  to 
maintain public order; 
 
Note:  The  public  order  exception  may  be 
invoked  only  where  a  genuine  and 
sufficiently serious threat is posed to 
one  of  the  fundamental  interests  of 
society. 
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant 
life or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to secure compliance with laws or 
regulations which are not inconsistent with this 
Chapter including those relating to: 
 
(i)  the  prevention  of  deceptive  and 
fraudulent practices or to deal with the 
effects  of  a  default  on  services 
contracts; 
 
(ii)  the  protection  of  the  privacy  of 
individuals in relation to the processing 
and dissemination of personal data and 
the  protection  of  confidentiality  of 
individual records and accounts; or 
 
(iii)  safety; 
 
(d)  inconsistent with Article 50.18, provided that 
the  difference  in  treatment  is  aimed  at 
ensuring the equitable or effective imposition 
or  collection  of  direct  taxes  in  respect  of 
services or service suppliers of other Parties; 
or 
 
Note:  Measures that are aimed at ensuring 
the equitable or effective imposition or 
collection  of  direct  taxes  include 
measures taken by a Party under its 
taxation system which: 
 
(i)  apply to non-resident service suppliers in 
recognition  of  the  fact  that  the  tax 
obligation of non-residents is determined 
25 
  
 
with respect to taxable items sourced or 
located in the territory of the Party; 
 
(ii)  apply to non-residents in order to ensure 
the imposition or collection of taxes in the 
territory of the Party; 
 
(iii)  apply  to  non-residents  or  residents  in 
order  to  prevent  the  avoidance  or 
evasion of taxes, including compliance 
measures; 
 
(iv)  apply to consumers of services supplied 
in or from the territory of another Party in 
order  to  ensure  the  imposition  or 
collection of taxes on such consumers 
derived from sources in the territory of 
the Party; 
 
(v)  distinguish service suppliers subject to 
tax  on  worldwide  taxable  items  from 
other service suppliers, in recognition of 
the difference in the nature of the tax 
base between them; or 
 
(vi)  determine, allocate or apportion income, 
profit, gain, loss, deduction or credit of 
resident  persons  or  branches,  or 
between related persons or branches of 
the same person, in order to safeguard 
the Party’s tax base. 
 
Tax terms or concepts in this subparagraph 
and this Note are determined according to tax 
definitions  and  concepts,  or  equivalent  or 
similar definitions and concepts, under the law 
of the Party taking the measure. 
 
(e)  inconsistent with Article 50.3, provided that 
the difference in treatment is the result of an 
agreement  on  the  avoidance  of  double 
taxation  or  provisions  on  the  avoidance  of 
double  taxation  in  any  other  international 
agreement or arrangement by which the Party 
is bound. 
 
26 
  
 
Article 50.14 
Subsidies 
 
1.  Except where provided in this Article, this Chapter 
shall not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party, 
or to any conditions attached to the receipt or continued 
receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such 
subsidies  or  grants  are  offered  exclusively  to  domestic 
services, service consumers or service suppliers. If such 
subsidies  or  grants  significantly  affect  trade  in  services 
committed  under  this  Chapter,  any  Party  may  request 
consultations with a view to an amicable resolution of this 
matter.  The  requested  Party  shall  accord  sympathetic 
consideration to such request. 
 
2.  Pursuant to this Chapter, the Parties shall: 
 
(a)  on request, provide information on subsidies 
related to trade in services committed under 
this Chapter to any requesting Party; and  
 
(b)  review  the  treatment  of  subsidies  when 
relevant  disciplines  are  developed  by  the 
World Trade Organization. 
 
Article 50.15 
Cooperation 
 
The Parties shall strengthen cooperation efforts in services 
sectors, including sectors which are not covered by existing 
cooperation arrangements in accordance with Chapter 8. 
The Parties are encouraged to discuss and mutually agree 
on the sectors for cooperation and develop cooperation 
programmes  in  these  sectors  in  order  to  improve  their 
domestic capacities, efficiencies and competitiveness. 
 
Article 50.16 
Increasing Participation of Newer ASEAN Member 
States 
 
In order to increase the benefits of this Chapter for the 
newer  ASEAN  Member  States,  and  in  accordance  with 
Articles 2, 3 and 52, the Parties recognise the importance 
of according special and differential treatment to the newer 
ASEAN Member States and facilitating their participation in 
27 
  
 
this  Chapter  through  negotiated  specific  commitments 
relating to: 
 
(a)  strengthened domestic services capacity and 
its efficiency and competitiveness, inter alia, 
through  access  to  technology  on  a 
commercial basis; 
 
(b)  improved access to distribution channels and 
information networks; 
 
(c)  commitments in sectors of export interest to 
newer ASEAN Member States; and 
 
(d)  recognising that commitments by each newer 
ASEAN  Member  State  may  be  made  in 
accordance  with  its  individual  stage  of 
development. 
 
Article 50.17 
Market Access 
 
1.  With respect to market access through the modes of 
supply identified in subparagraph (v) of Article 50.1, a Party 
shall accord services and service suppliers of any other 
Party treatment no less favourable than that provided for 
under  the  terms,  limitations  and  conditions  agreed  and 
specified in its Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annex 
6. 
 
Note:  If  a  Party  undertakes  a  market-access 
commitment  in  relation  to  the  supply  of  a 
service through the mode of supply referred to 
in subparagraph (v)(i) of Article 50.1 and if the 
cross-border  movement  of  capital  is  an 
essential part of the service itself, that Party is 
thereby committed to allow such movement of 
capital. If a Party undertakes a market-access 
commitment  in  relation  to  the  supply  of  a 
service through the mode of supply referred to 
in subparagraph (v)(iii) of Article 50.1, it is 
thereby committed to allow related transfers of 
capital into its territory. 
 
2.  In sectors where market-access commitments are 
undertaken, the measures, which a Party shall not maintain 
28 
  
 
or adopt either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on 
the basis of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in 
its  Schedule  of  Specific  Commitments  in  Annex  6,  are 
defined as: 
 
(a)  limitations on the number of service suppliers 
whether  in  the  form  of  numerical  quotas, 
monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the 
requirements of an economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations  on  the  total  value  of  service 
transactions or assets in the form of numerical 
quotas  or  the  requirement  of  an  economic 
needs test; 
 
(c)  limitations  on  the  total  number  of  service 
operations or on the total quantity of service 
output  expressed  in  terms  of  designated 
numerical units in the form of quotas or the 
requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
Note:  This  subparagraph  does  not  cover 
measures of a Party which limit inputs 
for the supply of services. 
 
(d)  limitations  on  the  total  number  of  natural 
persons that may be employed in a particular 
service sector or that a service supplier may 
employ  and  who  are  necessary  for,  and 
directly  related  to,  the  supply  of  a  specific 
service in the form of numerical quotas or the 
requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(e)  measures  which  restrict  or  require  specific 
types of legal entity or joint venture through 
which a service supplier may supply a service; 
and 
 
(f)  limitations  on  the  participation  of  foreign 
capital in terms of maximum percentage limit 
on foreign shareholding or the total value of 
individual or aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
 
 
29 
  
 
Article 50.18 
National Treatment 
 
1.  In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule of Specific 
Commitments in Annex 6, and subject to any conditions and 
qualifications set out therein, each Party shall accord to 
services and service suppliers of any other Party, in respect 
of all measures affecting the supply of services, treatment 
no  less  favourable  than  that  it  accords  to  its  own  like 
services and service suppliers. 
 
Note:  For  greater  certainty,  no  specific 
commitments in this Article shall be construed 
to require any Party to compensate for any 
inherent  competitive  disadvantages,  which 
result  from  the  foreign  character  of  the 
relevant services or service suppliers. 
 
2.  A Party may meet the requirement of paragraph 1 by 
according to services and service suppliers of any other 
Party, either formally identical treatment or formally different 
treatment to that it accords to its own like services and 
service suppliers. 
 
3.  Formally identical or formally different treatment shall 
be  considered  to  be  less  favourable  if  it  modifies  the 
conditions of competition in favour of services or service 
suppliers of the Party compared to like services or service 
suppliers of any other Party. 
 
4.  A Party shall not invoke the preceding paragraphs 
under Chapter 9 with respect to a measure of any other 
Party  that  falls  within  the  scope  of  an  international 
agreement  between  them  relating  to  the  avoidance  of 
double taxation. 
 
Article 50.19 
Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to 
measures  affecting  trade  in  services  not  subject  to 
scheduling under Articles 50.17 and 50.18, including those 
regarding  qualifications,  standards  or  licensing  matters. 
Such commitments shall be inscribed in a Party’s Schedule 
of Specific Commitments in Annex 6. 
 
30 
  
 
Article 50.20 
Schedules of Specific Commitments 
 
1.  Each Party shall set out in a schedule the specific 
commitments it undertakes under Articles 50.17, 50.18 and 
50.19. With respect to sectors or subsectors where such 
commitments are undertaken, each Schedule of Specific 
Commitments in Annex 6 shall specify: 
 
(a)  terms, limitations and conditions on market 
access; 
 
(b)  conditions  and  qualifications  on  national 
treatment; 
 
(c)  undertakings  relating  to  additional 
commitments; and 
 
(d)  where  appropriate  the  timeframe  for 
implementation of such commitments. 
 
2.  With  respect  to  sectors  or  subsectors  where  the 
specific  commitments  are  undertaken  and  which  are 
indicated with “SS”, any terms, limitations, conditions and 
qualifications referred to in subparagraphs 1(a) and (b), other 
than those based on measures pursuant to immigration laws 
and regulations, shall be limited to existing non-conforming 
measures. 
 
Note:  For the purposes of this paragraph, “existing” 
means in effect on the date of entry into force 
of the First Protocol. 
 
3.  Measures inconsistent with both Articles 50.17 and 
50.18 shall be inscribed in both the columns relating to 
Articles 50.17 and 50.18. 
 
Article 50.21 
Application and Extension of Commitments 
 
Each Party shall make its individual Schedule of Specific 
Commitments  under  Article  50.20  and  shall  apply  such 
Schedule to other Parties. 
 
 
 
31 
  
 
Article 50.22 
Progressive Liberalisation 
 
The  Parties  may  enter  into  successive  rounds  of 
negotiations  so  as  to  progressively  liberalise  trade  in 
services among the Parties. 
 
Article 50.23 
Modification of Schedules 
 
1.  A Party may modify or withdraw any commitment in 
its Schedule of Specific Commitments, at any time after 
three (3) years from the date on which that commitment has 
entered into force provided that: 
 
(a)  it  notifies  the  other  Parties  as  well  as  the 
ASEAN Secretariat of its intention to modify or 
withdraw a commitment no later than three (3) 
months  before  the  intended  date  of 
implementation  of  the  modification  or 
withdrawal; and 
 
(b)  it enters into negotiations with any affected 
Party to agree to the necessary compensatory 
adjustment. 
 
2.  In achieving a compensatory adjustment, the Parties 
shall  ensure  that  the  general  level  of  mutually 
advantageous commitment is not less favourable to trade 
than provided for in the Schedules of Specific Commitments 
prior to such negotiations. 
 
3.  Any  compensatory  adjustment  pursuant  to  this 
Article shall be accorded on a non-discriminatory basis to 
all the Parties. 
 
4.  If  the  Parties  concerned  are  unable  to  reach  an 
agreement on the compensatory adjustment, the matter 
shall  be  settled  by  arbitration  under  Chapter  9.  The 
modifying Party may not modify or withdraw its commitment 
until it has made compensatory adjustments in conformity 
with the findings of the arbitration. 
 
5.  If  the  modifying  Party  implements  its  proposed 
modification or withdrawal and does not comply with the 
findings of the arbitration, any Party that participated in the 
32 
  
 
arbitration may modify or withdraw substantially equivalent 
benefits in conformity with those findings. Notwithstanding 
Articles 50.3 and 50.21, such a modification or withdrawal 
may be implemented solely with respect to the modifying 
Party. 
 
Article 50.24 
Sub-Committee on Trade in Services 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Trade in 
Services (hereinafter referred to in this Article as “the Sub-
Committee”) shall be established pursuant to Article 11. 
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to: 
 
(a)  review the implementation and operation of 
this Chapter; 
 
(b)  review  commitments,  with  respect  to 
measures affecting trade in services, with a 
view to achieving further liberalisation on a 
mutually advantageous basis and securing an 
overall balance of rights and obligations; 
 
(c)  discuss any issues related to this Chapter; 
 
(d)  report the outcome of discussions of the Sub-
Committee to the Joint Committee; and 
 
(e)  carry out other functions as may be delegated 
by the Joint Committee in accordance with 
Article 11 of this Agreement. 
 
3.  The Sub-Committee shall be: 
 
(a)  composed  of  representatives  of  the 
Governments of all ASEAN Member States 
and Japan; and 
 
(b)  co-chaired  by  an  official  of  one  of  the 
Governments of the ASEAN Member States 
and an official of the Government of Japan. 
 
4.  The Sub-Committee, based on the consensus of the 
Parties, may invite representatives of relevant entities other 
33 
  
 
than  the  Governments  with  the  necessary  expertise 
relevant to the issues to be discussed to participate in the 
Sub-Committee’s discussions. 
 
5.  The Sub-Committee shall meet at such venues and 
times as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
Article 50.25 
Review 
 
1.  With  the  objective  of  further  liberalising  trade  in 
services among the Parties, including the possibility of the 
re-negotiation of the format of schedules, the Parties shall 
undertake a review of this Chapter with Annexes A and B to 
this Chapter and Annexes 6 through 8 at the occasion of a 
general review pursuant to Article 75 or other occasions as 
may be otherwise agreed by the Parties. 
 
2.  If, after the entry into force of the First Protocol, a 
Party has undertaken further liberalisation autonomously in 
any of services sectors, subsectors or activities, pursuant to 
Article 50.22, it may consider any requests by the other 
Parties for the possible incorporation into this Agreement of 
such autonomous liberalisation. 
 
Article 50.26 
Denial of Benefits 
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  to the supply of a service, if it establishes that 
the service is supplied from or in the territory 
of a non-Party; 
 
(b)  in  the  case  of  the  supply  of  a  maritime 
transport  service,  if  it  establishes  that  the 
service is supplied: 
 
(i)  by a vessel registered under the laws 
of a non-Party; and 
 
(ii)  by  a  person  of  a  non-Party  which 
operates  and/or  uses  the  vessel  in 
whole or in part; 
 
34 
  
 
(c)  to a service supplier that is a juridical person, 
if it establishes that it is not a service supplier 
of another Party. 
 
   
35 
  
 
Annex A to Chapter 6 
Financial Services 
 
Article A.1  
Scope and Definitions 
 
1.  This Annex shall apply to measures affecting the 
supply of financial services. Reference to the supply of a 
financial service in this Annex shall mean the supply of a 
service as defined in subparagraph (u) of Article 50.1. 
 
2.  (a)  For the purposes of this Annex, the term: 
 
(i)  “financial service” means any service 
of  a  financial  nature  offered  by  a 
financial  service  supplier  of  a  Party. 
Financial services include all insurance 
and insurance-related services, and all 
banking  and  other  financial  services 
(excluding  insurance).  Financial 
services  include  the  following 
activities: 
 
Insurance  and  insurance-related 
services 
 
(A)  direct  insurance  (including  co-
insurance): 
 
(1)  life; and 
 
(2)  non-life; 
 
(B)  reinsurance and retrocession; 
     
(C)  insurance  intermediation,  such 
as brokerage and agency; 
 
(D)  services auxiliary to insurance, 
such as consultancy, actuarial, 
risk  assessment  and  claim 
settlement services; 
 
Banking  and  other  financial  services 
(excluding insurance) 
 
36 
  
 
(E)  acceptance  of  deposits  and 
other repayable funds from the 
public; 
 
(F)  lending  of  all  types,  including 
consumer  credit,  mortgage 
credit, factoring and financing of 
commercial transaction; 
 
(G)  financial leasing; 
 
(H)  all  payment  and  money 
transmission services, including 
credit, charge and debit cards, 
travellers cheques and bankers 
drafts; 
 
(I)  guarantees and commitments; 
 
(J)  trading for own account or for 
account of customers, whether 
on an exchange, in an over-the-
counter market or otherwise, the 
following: 
 
(cid:1) (cid:1) (1)  money  market 
instruments  (including 
cheques,  bills, 
certificates of deposits); 
 
(2)  foreign exchange; 
 
(3)  derivative  products 
including, but not limited 
to, futures and options; 
 
(4)  exchange  rate  and 
interest rate instruments, 
including  products  such 
as  swaps,  forward  rate 
agreements; 
 
(5)  transferable  securities; 
and 
 
37 
  
 
(6)  other  negotiable 
instruments and financial 
assets, including bullion; 
 
(K)  participation  in  issues  of  all 
kinds  of  securities,  including 
underwriting and placement as 
agent,  whether  publicly  or 
privately,  and  provision  of 
services related to such issues; 
 
(L)  money broking; 
 
(M)  asset  management,  such  as 
cash or portfolio management, 
all  forms  of  collective 
investment  management, 
pension  fund  management, 
custodial,  depository  and  trust 
services; 
 
(N)  settlement and clearing services 
for  financial  assets,  including 
securities,  derivative  products, 
and  other  negotiable 
instruments; 
 
(O)  provision  and  transfer  of 
financial  information,  and 
financial  data  processing  and 
related software by suppliers of 
other financial services; and 
 
(P)  advisory,  intermediation  and 
other auxiliary financial services 
on  all  the  activities  listed  in 
subparagraphs (E) through (O), 
including  credit  reference  and 
analysis,  investment  and 
portfolio  research  and  advice, 
advice on acquisitions and on 
corporate  restructuring  and 
strategy; 
 
 
38 
  
 
(ii)  “financial service supplier” means any 
natural or juridical person of a Party 
wishing to supply or supplying financial 
services but “financial service supplier” 
does not include a public entity; 
 
(iii)  “public entity” means: 
 
(A)  a government, a central bank or 
monetary authority, of a Party, 
or an entity owned or controlled 
by  a  Party,  that  is  principally 
engaged  in  carrying  out 
governmental  functions  or 
activities  for  governmental 
purposes, not including an entity 
principally engaged in supplying 
financial  services  on 
commercial terms; or 
 
(B)  a  private  entity,  performing 
functions normally performed by 
a  central  bank  or  monetary 
authority, when exercising those 
functions; and 
 
(iv)  “self-regulatory organisation” means: 
 
(A)  in the case of Japan, any non-
governmental  body,  including 
any  securities  or  futures 
exchange  or  market,  clearing 
agency, or other organisation or 
association  that  exercises 
delegated  regulatory  or 
supervisory  authority  over 
financial service suppliers; and 
 
(B)  in  the  case  of  an  ASEAN 
Member  State,  any  non-
governmental  body,  including 
any  securities  or  futures 
exchange or market, clearing or 
payment settlement agency, or 
any  other  organisation  or 
association  that  is  recognised 
39 
  
 
by  legislation  as  a  self-
regulatory  organisation  and 
exercises  regulatory  or 
supervisory  authority  over 
financial  service  suppliers 
pursuant  to  legislation  or 
delegation from central, regional 
or  local  governments  or 
authorities; 
 
(b)  For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  (q)  of 
Article 50.1, “services supplied in the exercise 
of  governmental  authority”  means  the 
following: 
 
(i)  activities conducted by a central bank 
or monetary authority or by any other 
public entity in pursuit of monetary or 
exchange rate policies; 
 
(ii)  activities  forming  part  of  a  statutory 
system  of  social  security  or  public 
retirement plans; and 
 
(iii)  other activities conducted by a public 
entity  for  the  account  or  with  the 
guarantee  or  using  the  financial 
resources of the Government; 
 
(c)  For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  (q)  of 
Article  50.1,  if  a  Party  allows  any  of  the 
activities referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) or 
(iii) to be conducted by its financial service 
suppliers in competition with a public entity or 
a financial service supplier, “services” shall 
include such activities; and 
 
(d)  The term “a service supplied in the exercise 
of  governmental  authority”  as  defined  in 
subparagraph  (a)  of  Article  50.1  shall  not 
apply to services covered by this Annex. 
 
 
 
 
 
40 
  
 
Article A.2  
Transparency 
 
1.  The Parties recognise that regulatory transparency 
in financial services is important in facilitating the ability of 
financial service suppliers to gain access to and operate in 
each other’s market. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to take such reasonable 
measures as may be available to it to ensure that the rules 
of  general  application  adopted  or  maintained  by  self-
regulatory organisations in the Party are promptly published 
or otherwise made publicly available. 
 
3.  Each Party shall, to the extent possible, maintain or 
establish  appropriate  mechanisms  for  responding  to 
enquiries  from  interested  persons  of  another  Party 
regarding measures of general application to which this 
Annex applies. 
 
Note:  The Parties confirm their shared understanding that 
interested  persons  in  this  Article  should  only  be 
persons  whose  direct  financial  interest  could  be 
potentially affected by the adoption of the regulations 
of general application. 
 
4.  Competent authorities of each Party shall use their 
best endeavours to make available to interested persons of 
another  Party  their  requirements,  including  any 
documentation  required,  for  completing  applications 
relating to the supply of financial services. 
 
5.  On the request of an applicant in writing, competent 
authorities of a Party shall inform the applicant of the status 
of  its  application.  If  an  authority  requires  additional 
information from the applicant, it shall notify the applicant 
within a reasonable period of time. 
 
6.  (a)  A  competent  authority  of  each  Party  shall 
make  administrative  decisions  on  a 
completed application of a financial service 
supplier of another Party seeking to supply a 
financial service in that Party’s territory within 
one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  and  shall 
notify the applicant of the decision within a 
reasonable  period  of  time.  An  application 
41 
  
 
shall  not  be  considered  complete  until  all 
relevant proceedings are conducted and the 
competent authority considers all necessary 
information is received. 
 
(b)  Where it is not practicable for a decision to be 
made within one hundred eighty (180) days, 
the  competent  authority  shall  notify  the 
applicant without delay and shall endeavour to 
make the decision within a reasonable period 
of time thereafter. 
 
7.  On  the  request  of  an  unsuccessful  applicant  in 
writing, a competent authority of a Party that has denied an 
application shall endeavour to inform the applicant of the 
reasons for denial of the application. 
 
Article A.3 
Transfers of Information and Processing of 
Information 
 
1.  A Party shall not take measures that prevent: 
 
(a)  transfers of information including transfers of 
data by electronic means necessary for the 
conduct of the ordinary business of a financial 
service supplier; 
 
(b)  the  processing  of  financial  information 
including  transfers  of  data  by  electronic 
means  necessary  for  the  conduct  of  the 
ordinary  business  of  a  financial  service 
supplier; or 
 
(c)  transfers  of  equipment  necessary  for  the 
conduct of the ordinary business of a financial 
service supplier, subject to importation rules 
consistent with international agreements. 
 
2.  Nothing in paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  restricts the right of a Party to protect personal 
data, personal privacy and the confidentiality 
of individual records and accounts including in 
accordance  with  its  domestic  laws  and 
regulations so long as such right shall not be 
42 
  
 
used  as  a  means  of  avoiding  the 
commitments or obligations of the Party under 
this Agreement; 
 
(b)  prevents a competent authority of a Party for 
regulatory  or  prudential  reasons  from 
requiring  a  financial  service  supplier  in  its 
territory to comply with domestic regulations 
in relation to data management and storage 
and system maintenance, as well as to retain 
within its territory copies of records; or 
 
(c)  shall be construed to require a Party to allow 
the cross-border supply or the consumption 
abroad of services in relation to which it has 
not made specific commitments, including to 
allow  non-resident  suppliers  of  financial 
services to supply, as a principal, through an 
intermediary  or  as  an  intermediary,  the 
provision and transfer of financial information 
and financial data processing as referred to in 
subparagraph 2(a)(i)(O) of Article A.1. 
 
Article A.4 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of Chapter 6, 
including Annexes A and B to Chapter 6 and Annexes 6 
through  8,  a  Party  shall  not  be  prevented  from  taking 
measures  for  prudential  reasons,  including  for  the 
protection  of  investors,  depositors,  policy  holders  or 
persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial 
service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of 
the Party’s financial system. Where such measures do not 
conform with the provisions of Chapter 6, they shall not be 
used  as  a  means  of  avoiding  the  commitments  or 
obligations of the Party under that Chapter. 
 
2.  Nothing in Chapter 6, including Annexes A and B to 
Chapter 6 and Annexes 6 through 8, shall be construed to 
require a Party to disclose information relating to the affairs 
and accounts of individual customers or any confidential or 
proprietary information in the possession of public entities. 
 
 
 
43 
  
 
Article A.5  
Recognition of Prudential Measures 
 
Where  a  Party  recognises,  by  an  agreement  or 
arrangement, prudential measures of a non-Party or of any 
international regulatory body in determining how the Party’s 
measures relating to financial services shall be applied, that 
Party shall afford adequate opportunity for the other Parties 
to  negotiate  their  accession  to  such  an  agreement  or 
arrangement, or to negotiate a comparable agreement or 
arrangement with it, under circumstances in which there 
would be equivalent regulation, oversight, implementation 
of  such  regulation  and,  if  appropriate,  procedures 
concerning the sharing of information between the parties 
to the agreement or arrangement. Where a Party accords 
such recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate 
opportunity for the other Parties to demonstrate that such 
circumstances exist. 
 
Article A.6  
Settlement of Disputes 
 
Arbitral tribunals established under Article 64 for disputes 
on prudential issues and other financial matters shall have 
the necessary expertise relevant to the specific financial 
service under dispute. 
 
   
44 
  
 
Annex B to Chapter 6 
Telecommunications Services 
 
Article B.1 
Scope 
 
1.  This  Annex  shall  apply  to  measures  by  a  Party 
affecting  trade  in  public  telecommunications  transport 
networks and services. 
 
2.  This Annex shall not apply to measures affecting 
broadcasting  services  as  defined  in  the  laws  and 
regulations of each Party. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Annex shall be construed to: 
 
(a)  require a Party to authorise a service supplier 
of  another  Party  to  establish,  construct, 
acquire,  lease,  operate  or  supply 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services  other  than  as  provided  for  in  its 
Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annex 
6; or 
 
(b)  require a Party (or require a Party to oblige 
service  suppliers  under  its  jurisdiction)  to 
establish, construct, acquire, lease, operate 
or  supply  telecommunications  transport 
networks or services not offered to the public 
generally. 
 
Article B.2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term: 
 
(a)  “cost-oriented”  means  based  on  cost,  and 
may  include  a  reasonable  profit,  and  may 
involve  different  cost  methodologies  for 
different facilities or services; 
 
(b)  “end user” means a subscriber to or a final 
consumer  of  public  telecommunications 
transport networks or services, including a 
service supplier other than a supplier of public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
45 
  
 
services; 
 
(c)  “essential facilities” means facilities of a public 
telecommunications  transport  network  or 
service that: 
 
(i)  are  exclusively  or  predominantly 
provided by a single or limited number 
of suppliers; and 
 
(ii)  cannot  feasibly  be  economically  or 
technically  substituted  in  order  to 
provide a service; 
 
(d)  “leased circuits” means telecommunications 
facilities  between  two  or  more  designated 
points that are set aside for the dedicated use 
of, or availability to, particular users; 
 
(e)  “major supplier” means a supplier which has 
the  ability  to  materially  affect  the  terms  of 
participation,  having  regard  to  price  and 
supply,  in  the  relevant  market  for  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services as a result of: 
 
(i)  control over essential facilities; or 
 
(ii)  use of its position in the market; 
 
(f)  “non-discriminatory” means treatment no less 
favourable than that accorded to any other 
user  of  like  public  telecommunications 
transport  networks  or  services  in  like 
circumstances; 
 
(g)  “personal data” means any information about 
an identified or identifiable natural person; 
 
(h)  “public  telecommunications  transport 
network”  means  the  public 
telecommunications  infrastructure  which 
permits  telecommunications  between  and 
among defined network termination points; 
 
 
46 
  
 
(i)  “public telecommunications transport service” 
means  any  telecommunications  transport 
service required, explicitly or in effect, by a 
Party to be offered to the public generally. 
Such  services  may  include,  inter  alia, 
telegraph,  telephone,  telex  and  data 
transmission typically involving transmission 
of  customer-supplied  information  between 
two or more defined points without any end-
to-end change in the form or content of the 
customer’s information; 
 
(j)  “telecommunications”  means  the 
transmission and reception of signals by any 
electromagnetic means;  
 
(k)  “telecommunications regulatory body” means 
any body or bodies in the territory of a Party 
which is or are responsible, under the laws 
and regulations of the Party, for the regulation 
of telecommunications; and 
 
(l)  “users” means end users or suppliers of public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services. 
 
Article B.3 
Access and Use 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that any service supplier of 
another Party is accorded access to and use of public 
telecommunications transport networks and services in a 
timely fashion and on transparent, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms and conditions, for the supply of a 
service included in its Schedule of Specific Commitments 
in  Annex  6.  This  obligation  shall  be  applied,  inter  alia, 
through paragraphs 2 through 6. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of 
another  Party  have  access  to  and  use  of  any  public 
telecommunications transport network or service offered 
within or across the border of that Party, including private 
leased circuits, and to this end shall ensure, subject to 
paragraphs 5 and 6, that such suppliers are permitted: 
 
 
47 
  
 
(a)  to purchase or lease and attach terminal or 
other  equipment  which  interfaces  with  the 
network  and  which  is  necessary  to  supply 
their services; 
 
(b)  to  interconnect  private  leased  or  owned 
circuits  with  public  telecommunications 
transport  networks  and  services  or  with 
circuits  leased  or  owned  by  other  service 
suppliers; and 
 
(c)  to use operating protocols of their choice in 
the  supply  of  any  service,  other  than  as 
necessary  to  ensure  the  availability  of 
telecommunications transport networks and 
services to the public generally. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of 
another Party may use public telecommunications transport 
networks and services for the movement of information 
within  and  across  borders,  including  for  intra-corporate 
communications of such service suppliers, and for access 
to information contained in data bases or otherwise stored 
in machine-readable form in the territory of any Party. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraph 3, a Party may take such 
measures as are necessary: 
 
(a)  to ensure the security and confidentiality of 
messages; or 
 
(b)  to protect the personal data of end users of 
public telecommunications transport networks 
or services subject to the requirement that 
such measures are not applied in a manner 
which would constitute a means of arbitrary or 
unjustifiable  discrimination  or  a  disguised 
restriction on trade in services. 
 
5.  Each Party shall ensure that no condition is imposed 
on  access  to  and  use  of  public  telecommunications 
transport networks and services other than as necessary: 
 
(a)  to  safeguard  the  public  service 
responsibilities  of  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications transport networks and 
48 
  
 
services, in particular their ability to make their 
networks or services available to the public 
generally; or 
 
(b)  to  protect  the  technical  integrity  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services. 
 
6.  Provided  that  they  satisfy  the  criteria  set  out  in 
paragraph 5, conditions for access to and use of public 
telecommunications transport networks and services may 
include: 
 
(a)  a  requirement  to  use  specified  technical 
interfaces,  including  interface  protocols,  for 
interconnection  with  public 
telecommunications transport networks and 
services; 
 
(b)  requirements, where necessary, for the inter-
operability  of  public  telecommunications 
transport  services  and  to  encourage  the 
achievement of the goals set out in Article 
B.17; 
 
(c)  type approval of terminal or other equipment 
which  interfaces  with  public 
telecommunications transport networks and 
technical  requirements  relating  to  the 
attachment  of  such  equipment  to  such 
networks; 
 
(d)  restrictions  on  interconnection  of  private 
leased  or  owned  circuits  with  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services or with circuits leased or owned by 
other service suppliers; or 
 
(e)  notification, permit, registration and licensing. 
 
Article B.4  
Number Portability 
 
Each Party shall endeavour to ensure that suppliers of 
public telecommunications transport networks or services 
in its territory provide number portability for mobile services 
49 
  
 
in accordance with its laws and regulations, to the extent 
technically and economically feasible, on a timely basis and 
on reasonable terms and conditions. 
 
Article B.5 
Competitive Safeguard 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  adopt  or  maintain  appropriate 
measures  for  the  purpose  of  preventing  suppliers  who, 
alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or 
continuing anti-competitive practices. 
 
2.  The  anti-competitive  practices  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1 shall include, in particular: 
 
(a)  engaging  in  anti-competitive  cross-
subsidisation; 
 
(b)  using information obtained from competitors 
with anti-competitive results; and 
 
(c)  not  making  available  to  other  suppliers  of 
public telecommunications transport networks 
or  services,  on  a  timely  basis,  technical 
information  about  essential  facilities  and 
commercially relevant information which are 
necessary for them to supply services. 
 
Article B.6 
Treatment by Major Suppliers 
 
Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier in its territory 
accords to suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks and services of another Party treatment no less 
favourable than that such major supplier accords in like 
circumstances to its subsidiaries and affiliates, or any non-
affiliated service suppliers regarding: 
 
(a)  the availability, provisioning, rates or quality of 
like telecommunications services; and 
 
(b)  the  availability  of  technical  interfaces 
necessary for interconnection. 
 
 
 
50 
  
 
Article B.7 
Resale 
 
Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  any  major  supplier  in  its 
territory does not impose unreasonable or discriminatory 
conditions  or  limitations  on  the  resale  of  the  public 
telecommunications  transport  services  by  suppliers  of 
public telecommunications transport networks or services 
of another Party. 
 
Article B.8 
Interconnection 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  in  its  territory 
provide  interconnection  with  the  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services  of 
another Party to the extent provided for in its laws and 
regulations. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier which 
has control over essential facilities in its territory provides 
interconnection for the facilities and equipment of suppliers 
of  public  telecommunications  transport  networks  and 
services of another Party at any technically feasible point in 
the network. Such interconnection shall be provided: 
 
(a)  under  non-discriminatory  terms,  conditions 
(including  technical  standards  and 
specifications) and rates and of a quality no 
less favourable than that provided for its own 
like  services,  or  for  like  services  of  non-
affiliated  service  suppliers  or  for  its 
subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
 
(b)  in a timely fashion and on terms, conditions 
(including  technical  standards  and 
specifications)  and  cost-oriented  rates  that 
are transparent, reasonable, having regard to 
economic  feasibility,  and  sufficiently 
unbundled  so  that  the  supplier  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services of another Party need not pay for 
network components or facilities that it does 
not require for the services to be provided; 
and 
51 
  
 
(c)  upon  request,  at  points  in  addition  to  the 
network  termination  points  offered  to  the 
majority  of  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications transport networks and 
services, subject to charges that reflect the 
cost of construction of necessary additional 
facilities. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services  of 
another  Party  may  interconnect  their  facilities  and 
equipment with those of major suppliers which have control 
over essential facilities in its territory pursuant to at least 
one of the following options: 
 
(a)  a reference interconnection offer, approved 
by the Party’s telecommunications regulatory 
body,  containing  the  rates,  terms  and 
conditions that the major supplier which has 
control over essential facilities offers generally 
to  suppliers  of  public  telecommunications 
transport services; 
 
(b)  the  terms  and  conditions  of  an  existing 
interconnection agreement; or 
 
(c)  a  new  interconnection  agreement  through 
commercial negotiation. 
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  the  procedures 
applicable for interconnection to a major supplier are made 
publicly available. 
 
5.  Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier in its 
territory makes publicly available either its interconnection 
agreements or reference interconnection offer. 
 
6.  Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier which 
has control over essential facilities does not use or provide 
commercially  sensitive  or  confidential  information  on 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks 
or  services  or  end  users  thereof,  which  was  acquired 
through  its  interconnection  business  with 
telecommunications facilities of the suppliers of the public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services,  for 
purposes other than such interconnection business. 
52 
  
 
Article B.9 
Provisioning and Pricing of Leased Circuit Services 
 
Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier which has 
control  over  essential  facilities  in  its  territory  provides 
suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks 
and services of another Party with leased circuit services 
that are public telecommunications transport networks or 
services on terms and conditions, and at rates, that are 
reasonable, non-discriminatory and transparent. 
 
Article B.10 
Co-location 
 
Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with its laws and 
regulations, that a major supplier which has control over 
essential facilities in its territory allows suppliers of public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services  of 
another Party to locate their equipment within the major 
supplier’s  buildings  on  terms  and  conditions,  including 
technical feasibility and space availability where applicable, 
and  at  cost-oriented  rates,  that  are  reasonable,  non-
discriminatory (including with respect to timeliness) and 
transparent. 
 
Article B.11 
Independent Telecommunications Regulatory Body 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications 
regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, 
any supplier of telecommunications services. 
 
Note:  For  greater  certainty,  “supplier  of 
telecommunications services” is not limited to 
a  supplier  of  public  telecommunications 
transport networks or services. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that the decisions of, and 
the procedures used by, its telecommunications regulatory 
body are impartial with respect to all market participants. 
 
Article B.12 
Universal Service 
 
Each Party has the right to define the kind of universal 
service obligations it wishes to maintain. Such obligations 
53 
  
 
shall not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided 
that  they  are  administered  in  a  transparent,  non-
discriminatory and competitively neutral manner, and are 
not  more  burdensome  than  necessary  for  the  kind  of 
universal service defined by the Party. 
 
Article B.13 
Licensing 
 
1.  Where a licence, concession, permit, registration or 
other type of authorisation is required for the supply of 
public telecommunications transport networks or services, 
each Party shall make publicly available: 
 
(a)  all the licensing or other authorisation criteria 
and  procedures,  and  the  period  of  time 
normally  required  to  reach  a  decision 
concerning  an  application  for  a  licence, 
concession, permit, registration or other type 
of authorisation; and 
 
(b)  the  terms  and  conditions  of  individual 
licences, concessions, permits, registrations 
or other type of authorisations it has issued. 
 
2.  The competent authority of a Party shall notify an 
applicant of the outcome of its application without undue 
delay after a decision has been taken. In case a decision is 
taken to deny an application for a licence, concession, 
permit,  registration  or  other  type  of  authorisation,  the 
competent authority of the Party shall make known to the 
applicant, upon request, the reason for the denial. 
 
Article B.14 
Allocation and Use of Scarce Resources 
 
1.  Each Party shall carry out its procedures for the 
allocation  and  use  of  scarce  resources  related  to 
telecommunications, including frequencies, and numbers in 
an  objective,  timely,  transparent  and  non-discriminatory 
manner. 
 
2.  Each Party shall make publicly available the current 
state of allocated frequency bands, but shall not be required 
to provide detailed identification of frequencies allocated for 
specific government uses. 
54 
  
 
3.  A  Party’s  measures  allocating  and  assigning 
spectrum and managing frequency are not measures that 
are per se inconsistent with Article 50.17. Accordingly, each 
Party retains the right to establish and apply spectrum and 
frequency  management  policies  that  have  the  effect  of 
limiting  the  number  of  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services, 
provided that it does so in a manner consistent with other 
provisions of Chapter 6. Such right includes the ability to 
allocate frequency bands, taking into account current and 
future needs and spectrum availability. 
 
Article B.15 
Transparency 
 
Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  relevant  information  on 
conditions  affecting  access  to  and  use  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  and  services  is 
publicly available, including: tariffs and other terms and 
conditions of service; specifications of technical interfaces 
with such networks and services; information on bodies 
responsible for the preparation and adoption of standards 
affecting  such  access  and  use;  conditions  applying  to 
attachment  of  terminal  or  other  equipment;  and 
notifications, permit, registration or licensing requirements, 
if any. 
 
Article B.16 
Settlement of Disputes 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services  of 
another  Party  may  have  timely  recourse  to  its 
telecommunications regulatory body or dispute settlement 
body  to  settle  disputes  arising  under  this  Annex  in 
accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with its laws 
and  regulations,  that  any  supplier  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services 
aggrieved by a determination or decision of its relevant 
telecommunications regulatory body may petition that body 
for reconsideration of that determination or decision. No 
Party shall permit such a petition to constitute grounds for 
non-compliance with such determination or decision of the 
said  body  unless  an  appropriate  authority  suspends  or 
55 
  
 
withdraws such determination or decision. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure that any supplier of public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services 
aggrieved by a final determination or decision of its relevant 
telecommunications regulatory body may obtain review of 
such determination or decision in accordance with its laws 
and regulations. 
 
Article B.17 
Relation to International Organisations 
 
The  Parties  recognise  the  importance  of  international 
standards for global compatibility and inter-operability of 
telecommunications networks and services and undertake 
to promote such standards through the work of relevant 
international  bodies,  including  the  International 
Telecommunication  Union  and  the  International 
Organization for Standardization. 
 
Article B.18 
Transitional Arrangements 
 
Noting each Party’s different stage of development, and 
noting each Party’s commitments under the GATS, a Party 
may  delay  the  application  of  the  following  Articles  as 
indicated in the Attachment to this Annex on Transitional 
Arrangements: 
 
(a)  Article B.5 Competitive Safeguard; 
 
(b)  Article B.7 Resale; 
 
(c)  Article B.8 Interconnection; 
 
(d)  Article B.9 Provisioning and Pricing of Leased 
Circuit Services; 
 
(e)  Article B.10 Co-location; 
 
(f)  Article B.11 Independent Telecommunications 
Regulatory Body; 
 
(g)  Article B.13 Licensing; and 
 
56 
  
 
(h)  Article  B.14  Allocation  and  Use  of  Scarce 
Resources. 
   
57 
  
 
Attachment to Annex B to Chapter 6 on Transitional Arrangements 
 
58 
  
 
” 
 
 
59 
  
 
Article 5 
Incorporation of Chapter 6 bis (Movement of Natural Persons)  
into the AJCEP Agreement 
 
The following Chapter on Movement of Natural Persons shall be inserted 
into the AJCEP Agreement as Chapter 6 bis: 
 
“Chapter 6 bis 
Movement of Natural Persons 
 
Article 50 bis.1 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a)  provide the rights and obligations in relation to 
the movement of natural persons between the 
Parties for the purposes of trade in services 
and investment; 
 
(b)  facilitate  the  movement  of  natural  persons 
engaged  in  the  conduct  of  trade  and 
investment between the Parties; and 
 
(c)  establish  streamlined  and  transparent 
procedures  for  applications  for  immigration 
formalities for the entry and temporary stay of 
natural persons to whom this Chapter applies. 
 
Article 50 bis.2 
Scope  
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to measures affecting the 
movement  of  natural  persons  of  a  Party  who  enter  the 
territory of another Party and who fall under one of the 
categories referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 50 bis.4. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to measures affecting 
natural  persons  of  a  Party  seeking  access  to  the 
employment market of another Party, nor shall it apply to 
measures regarding nationality or citizenship, or residence 
or employment on a permanent basis. 
 
 
 
60 
  
 
3.  This Chapter shall not prevent a Party from applying 
measures  to  regulate  the  entry  and  temporary  stay  of 
natural persons of another Party in its territory, including 
those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to 
ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across, its 
borders, provided that such measures are not applied in a 
manner so as to nullify or impair the benefits accruing to 
another Party under the terms of the specific commitments. 
 
Note:  The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural 
persons of a certain nationality or citizenship 
and  not  for  those  of  others  shall  not  be 
regarded as nullifying or impairing benefits 
under the terms of specific commitments set 
out in Annex 9. 
 
Article 50 bis.3 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
(a)  “natural person of another Party” means a 
natural person who resides in the territory of 
that other Party or elsewhere, and who under 
the law of that other Party: 
 
(i)  is a national of that other Party; or 
 
(ii)  has the right of permanent residence in 
that other Party, in the case of a Party 
which accords substantially the same 
treatment to its permanent residents as 
it  does  to  its  nationals  in  respect  of 
measures affecting trade in services, 
as notified to all other Parties after the 
entry into force of the First Protocol, 
provided  that  no  Party  is  obliged  to 
accord  to  such  permanent  residents 
treatment more favourable than would 
be accorded by that other Party to such 
permanent residents. Such notification 
shall include the assurance to assume, 
with  respect  to  the  permanent 
residents, in accordance with its laws 
and  regulations,  the  same 
61 
  
 
responsibilities that other Party bears 
with respect to its nationals; 
 
Note:  In the case of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia,  the  Republic  of 
Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic, 
Malaysia, the Republic of the 
Union  of  Myanmar,  the 
Republic of the Philippines, the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam 
and  Japan,  natural  person  of 
another Party shall be limited to 
a natural person who resides in 
the territory of that other Party 
or  elsewhere  and  who  under 
the law of that other Party is a 
national  of  that  other  Party. 
Therefore,  in  line  with  the 
principle  of  reciprocity,  this 
Chapter shall not apply to the 
permanent  residents  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Cambodia,  the 
Republic of Indonesia, the Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, 
Malaysia, the Republic of the 
Union  of  Myanmar,  the 
Republic of the Philippines, the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam 
and Japan. Once any of these 
Parties enacts its laws on the 
treatment  of  permanent 
residents  of  another  Party  or 
non-Party,  there  shall  be 
negotiations among the Parties 
on  the  issue  of  whether  to 
include permanent residents in 
the coverage of natural person 
under this Chapter in respect of 
that Party. 
 
 
 
 
62 
  
 
(b)  “short-term business visitor” means: 
 
in the context of entry and temporary stay of a 
natural person of another Party in an ASEAN 
Member State, a natural person seeking to 
enter  or  stay  in  the  territory  of  an  ASEAN 
Member  State  temporarily,  whose 
remuneration  and  financial  support  for  the 
duration of the visit is derived from outside of 
that ASEAN Member State: 
 
(i)  as  a  representative  of  a  goods 
seller/service supplier, for the purpose 
of  negotiating  the  sale  of  goods  or 
supply  of  services  or  entering  into 
agreements  to  sell  goods  or  supply 
services  for  that  goods  seller/service 
supplier,  where  such  negotiations  do 
not  involve  direct  sale  of  goods  or 
supply of services to the general public; 
 
(ii)  as an employee of a juridical person as 
defined in subparagraphs (f)(i) through 
(iii) only for the purpose of establishing 
an  investment  or  setting  up  a 
commercial presence, for the juridical 
person in the territory of that ASEAN 
Member State; 
 
(iii)  for  the  purpose  of  participating  in 
business negotiations or meetings; or 
 
(iv)  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  an 
investment or setting up a commercial 
presence in the territory of that ASEAN 
Member State; and 
 
in the context of entry and temporary stay of a 
natural person of an ASEAN Member State in 
Japan, the activities of a short-term business 
visitor allowed in Japan are described in the 
terms of the specific commitments set out in 
Annex 9; 
63 
  
 
(c)  “contractual service supplier” means: 
 
in the context of entry and temporary stay of a 
natural person of another Party in an ASEAN 
Member State, a natural person who is an 
employee of a juridical person established in 
the territory of another Party which has no 
commercial presence in the territory of that 
ASEAN Member State where services will be 
provided, who: 
 
(i)  enters  the  territory  of  that  ASEAN 
Member State temporarily in order to 
supply a service pursuant to a contract 
or  contracts  between  his  or  her 
employer and a service consumer or 
service  consumers  in  the  territory  of 
that ASEAN Member State; 
 
(ii)  is  either  an  executive,  manager,  or 
specialist as defined in subparagraphs 
(f)(i)  through  (iii),  who  receives 
remuneration from his or her employer; 
 
(iii)  must  possess  the  appropriate 
educational  and  professional 
qualifications relevant to the service to 
be provided; and 
 
(iv)  as  may  be  applicable,  has  been  an 
employee of the juridical person for a 
period as may be specified in the terms 
of  specific  commitments  set  out  in 
Annex 9; and 
 
in the context of entry and temporary stay of a 
natural person of an ASEAN Member State in 
Japan,  the  activities  of  contractual  service 
supplier allowed in Japan are described in the 
terms of the specific commitments set out in 
Annex 9; 
 
(d)  “granting Party” means a Party who receives 
an application for entry and temporary stay 
from a natural person of another Party who is 
covered by Article 50 bis.2; 
64 
  
 
(e)  “immigration formality” means: 
 
with respect to an ASEAN Member State, a 
visa,  permit,  pass  or  other  documents  or 
electronic  authority  in  accordance  with  the 
laws and regulations of that ASEAN Member 
State  granting  a  natural  person  of  another 
Party the right to temporarily enter, stay, work, 
or to establish commercial presence in the 
territory of the granting Party; and 
 
with respect to Japan, only visa, which grants 
entry and temporary stay in accordance with 
the laws and regulations of Japan; 
 
(f)  “intra-corporate transferee” means: 
 
in the context of entry and temporary stay of a 
natural person of another Party in an ASEAN 
Member State, a natural person who is an 
employee of a juridical person established in 
the  territory  of  another  Party,  who  is 
transferred  temporarily  for  the  supply  of  a 
service through commercial presence (either 
through  a  representative  office,  branch, 
subsidiary or affiliate) in the territory of that 
ASEAN Member State, and who has been an 
employee of the juridical person for a period 
as may be specified in the terms of specific 
commitments set out in Annex 9, and who is: 
 
(i)  an “executive”: being a natural person 
within  the  organisation  who  primarily 
directs  the  management  of  the 
organisation, exercises wide latitude in 
decision  making  and  receives  only 
general  supervision  or  direction  from 
higher level executives, the board of 
directors  or  stockholders  of  the 
business;  an  executive  would  not 
directly  perform  tasks  related  to  the 
actual  provision  of  the  service  or 
services of the organisation; 
   
65 
  
 
(ii)  a  “manager”:  being  a  natural  person 
within  the  organisation  who  primarily 
directs  the 
organisation/department/subdivision 
and exercises supervisory and control 
functions  over  other  supervisory, 
managerial or professional staff. It does 
not include first line supervisors unless 
employees  supervised  are 
professionals; and it does not include 
employees who primarily perform tasks 
necessary  for  the  provision  of  the 
service; or 
 
(iii)  a “specialist”: being a natural person 
within the organisation who possesses 
knowledge  at  an  advanced  level  of 
expertise  essential  to  the 
establishment/provision of the service 
and/or  possesses  proprietary 
knowledge  of  the  organisation’s 
service,  research  equipment, 
techniques or management; and it may 
include, but is not limited to, members 
of a licensed profession; and 
 
in the context of entry and temporary stay of a 
natural person of an ASEAN Member State in 
Japan,  the  activities  of  intra-corporate 
transferee allowed in Japan are described in 
the terms of the specific commitments set out 
in Annex 9; and 
 
(g)  “entry and temporary stay” means entry into 
and stay in the territory of a Party by a natural 
person of another Party, without the intent to 
establish permanent residence. 
   
66 
  
 
Article 50 bis.4 
Specific Commitments 
 
1.  Each Party shall grant entry and temporary stay to 
natural persons of another Party in accordance with this 
Chapter including the terms of the categories in Annex 9, 
provided that the natural persons comply with the laws and 
regulations, including prescribed application procedures for 
the immigration formality sought and eligibility requirements, 
of the former Party related to movement of natural persons 
applicable  to  entry  and  temporary  stay,  which  are  not 
inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Chapter.  Such 
natural persons may include: 
 
(a)  short-term business visitors; 
 
(b)  intra-corporate transferees; 
 
(c)  contractual service suppliers; 
 
(d)  investors; and 
 
(e)  other categories as may be specified in Annex 
9. 
 
2.  A Party may deny entry and temporary stay to natural 
persons of another Party that do not comply with paragraph 
1. 
 
3.  No Party shall impose or maintain any limitations on 
the total number of visas to be granted in that Party to 
natural persons of another Party unless otherwise specified 
in Annex 9. 
 
Article 50 bis.5 
Processing of Applications 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  process  without  undue  delay 
complete  applications  for  immigration  formalities  or 
extensions thereof received from an applicant who is a 
natural person of another Party covered by Article 50 bis.2 
or his or her employer. 
   
67 
  
 
2.  If  the  competent  authorities  of  a  Party  require 
additional information in order to process the application for 
an  immigration  formality,  they  shall,  where  applicable, 
endeavour to notify the applicant without undue delay. 
 
3.  Each  Party  shall,  upon  request  and  within  a 
reasonable  period  of  time  after  receiving  a  complete 
application for an immigration formality, notify the applicant 
of: 
 
(a)  the receipt of the application; 
 
(b)  the status of the application; and 
 
(c)  the  decision  concerning  the  application 
including, if approved, the period of stay and 
other conditions. 
 
4.  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  simplify  the 
requirements  including  required  documentation,  and  to 
facilitate and expedite the procedures, relating to entry and 
temporary stay, in accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
5.  Any  fees  imposed  by  a  Party  in  respect  of  the 
processing of an application referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
be  reasonable  and  in  accordance  with  its  laws  and 
regulations. 
 
Article 50 bis.6 
Transparency 
 
Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  publish or otherwise make publicly available 
explanatory material and relevant forms and 
documents  on  all  relevant  immigration 
formalities  which  pertain  to  or  affect  the 
operation of this Chapter; 
 
(b)  maintain or establish contact points or other 
appropriate  mechanisms  to  respond  to 
enquiries from interested persons regarding 
its laws and regulations relating to entry and 
temporary stay of natural persons; 
 
68 
  
 
(c)  to the extent possible, allow reasonable time 
between  publication  of  new  regulations 
affecting entry and temporary stay of natural 
persons  and  their  effective  date.  Such 
publication  may  be  made  electronically 
available; and 
 
(d)  upon modifying or amending any immigration 
measure that affects the entry and temporary 
stay  of  natural  persons,  ensure  that  the 
information  published  or  otherwise  made 
available  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (a)  is 
updated as soon as possible. 
 
Article 50 bis.7 
Recognition 
 
1.  For the purposes of smooth movement of natural 
persons under this Chapter, a Party may recognise the 
education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements  met,  or 
licences or certifications granted in another Party for the 
purposes  of  the  fulfilment,  in  whole  or  in  part,  of  its 
standards  or  criteria  for  the  authorisation,  licensing  or 
certification of natural persons of that other Party. 
 
2.  Recognition referred to in paragraph 1, which may be 
achieved  through  harmonisation  or  otherwise,  may  be 
based upon an agreement or arrangement between the 
Parties concerned or may be accorded unilaterally. 
 
3.  Where  a  Party  recognises  by  agreement  or 
arrangement  between  the  Party  and  a  non-Party  or 
unilaterally,  the  education  or  experience  obtained, 
requirements met, or licences or certifications granted in the 
non-Party, the Party shall accord to the other Parties an 
adequate opportunity to demonstrate that the education or 
experience  obtained,  requirements  met  or  licences  or 
certifications granted in the other Parties should also be 
recognised. 
 
Article 50 bis.8 
Application of Chapter 9 
 
1.  Without  prejudice  to  Chapter  9,  the  Parties  shall 
endeavour  to  resolve  any  differences  arising  out  of  the 
implementation of this Chapter through consultations. 
69 
  
 
2.  A  Party  shall  not  have  recourse  to  Chapter  9 
regarding a refusal to grant entry and temporary stay under 
this Chapter unless: 
 
(a)  the matter involves a pattern of practice on the 
part of the granting Party; and 
 
(b)  the natural persons of the Party concerned 
have  exhausted  the  domestic  remedies, 
where  available,  regarding  the  particular 
matter. 
 
Article 50 bis.9 
General Exceptions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, Article 50.13 shall apply 
mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 50 bis.10 
Measures Pursuant to Immigration Laws and 
Regulations 
 
Except for this Chapter and Chapters 1, 9 and 10, nothing 
in this Agreement shall impose any obligation on each Party 
regarding  measures  affecting  the  movement  of  natural 
persons of another Party. 
 
Note:  For  greater  certainty,  the  measures  affecting  the 
movement  of  natural  persons  of  another  Party 
include immigration formalities.” 
 
Article 6 
Amendment to Chapter 7 (Investment) of the AJCEP Agreement 
 
Chapter 7 of the AJCEP Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 
 
“Chapter 7 
Investment 
 
Article 51.1 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or 
maintained by a Party relating to: 
 
(a)  investors of another Party; and 
70 
  
 
 
(b)  covered investments. 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
(a)  any measure that a Party adopts or maintains 
with respect to government procurement; 
 
(b)  subsidies or grants provided by a Party; 
 
(c)  services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental  authority,  provided  that  such 
services are supplied neither on a commercial 
basis, nor in competition with one or more 
service suppliers; and 
 
(d)  claims arising out of events which occurred 
prior to the date of entry into force of the First 
Protocol. 
 
3.  This Chapter shall not apply to measures adopted or 
maintained by a Party to the extent that they are covered by 
Chapters 6 and 6 bis. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding  paragraph  3,  Articles  51.4,  51.9, 
51.10, 51.11, 51.12 and 51.13 shall apply to any measure 
affecting the supply of a service by a service supplier of a 
Party  through  commercial  presence  in  the  territory  of 
another Party covered by Chapter 6, but only to the extent 
that any such measure relates to a covered investment and 
an obligation under this Chapter. 
 
Note:  For greater certainty, paragraph 4 shall not 
preclude  a  Party  from  applying  Articles  8, 
51.14,  51.15,  51.19,  51.20,  51.21  or  other 
relevant  provisions  of  this  Chapter  to  any 
measure affecting the supply of a service by a 
service supplier of a Party through commercial 
presence  in  the  territory  of  another  Party 
covered by Chapter 6, but only to the extent 
that any such measure relates to a covered 
investment  and  an  obligation  under  this 
Chapter. 
   
71 
  
 
Article 51.2 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
(a)  “covered investment” means, with respect to a 
Party,  an  investment  in  its  territory  of  an 
investor of another Party in existence as of the 
date of entry into force of the First Protocol or 
established, acquired or expanded thereafter, 
and  which,  where  applicable,  has  been 
admitted,  according  to  its  laws,  regulations 
and national policies; 
 
Note 1: For  greater  certainty,  “national 
policies”  means  those  policies 
affecting  an  investment  that  are 
endorsed  and  announced  by  the 
Government  of  a  Party,  and  made 
publicly  available  in  a  written  form. 
Each  Party  shall,  upon  request  by 
another  Party,  respond  to  specific 
questions  from,  and  provide 
information to, the latter Party, in the 
English  language,  with  respect  to 
such national policies. 
 
Note 2: In  the  case  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Thailand, this Chapter shall apply to 
covered  investments  which,  where 
applicable,  have  been  specifically 
approved in writing for protection by 
the  competent  authorities,  in 
accordance with its laws, regulations 
and national policies. 
 
Note 3: In  the  case  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia and the Socialist Republic 
of  Viet  Nam,  “has  been  admitted” 
means  “has  been  specifically 
registered or approved in writing, as 
the case may be”. 
   
72 
  
 
(b)  “freely usable currency” means any currency 
designated  as  such  by  the  IMF  under  the 
Articles of Agreement of the IMF as may be 
amended; 
 
(c)  “investment” means every kind of asset that 
an investor owns or controls, which has the 
characteristics of an investment, such as the 
commitment of capital or other resources, the 
expectation  of  gains  or  profits,  or  the 
assumption of risk, including: 
 
(i)  movable and immovable property, any 
other tangible and intangible property, 
and any other related property rights, 
such as leases, mortgages, liens and 
pledges; 
 
(ii)  shares,  stocks,  bonds,  debentures, 
loans and other forms of debt or equity 
participation  in  a  juridical  person, 
including  rights  or  interests  derived 
therefrom; 
 
(iii)  intellectual  property  rights  that  are 
conferred  pursuant  to  the  laws  and 
regulations of a Party in whose territory 
the  investment  is  made,  including, 
where  applicable,  copyrights  and 
related rights, patent rights and rights 
relating to utility models, trademarks, 
industrial  designs,  layout-designs  of 
integrated  circuits,  new  varieties  of 
plants,  trade  names,  indications  of 
source  or  geographical  indications, 
undisclosed information, and goodwill; 
 
(iv)  rights  under  contracts,  including 
turnkey,  construction,  management, 
production  or  revenue-sharing 
contracts; 
 
(iii)  rights conferred pursuant to laws and 
regulations  or  contracts  such  as 
concessions,  licences,  authorisations 
and  permits,  including  those  for  the 
73 
  
 
exploration and exploitation of natural 
resources; and 
 
(vi)  claims  to  money  and  to  any 
performance under contract having a 
financial  value,  but  the  term 
"investment” does not include claims to 
money that arise solely from: 
 
(A)  commercial  contracts  for  the 
sale of goods or services by a 
natural or juridical person in the 
territory of a Party to a natural or 
juridical person in the territory of 
another Party; or 
 
(B)  the  extension  of  credit  in 
connection  with  a  commercial 
transaction,  such  as  trade 
financing; 
 
The term “investment” also includes returns, 
which are the amounts yielded by or derived 
from an investment, in particular, though not 
exclusively,  profits,  interests,  capital  gains, 
dividends, royalties and fees. A change in the 
form in which assets are invested does not 
affect their character as investments; 
 
Note:  The term “investment” does not include 
an  order  or  judgment  entered  in  a 
judicial or administrative action. 
 
(d)  “investor of a Party” means: 
 
(i)  a natural person of a Party; or 
 
(ii)  a juridical person of a Party, 
 
that seeks to make, is making, or has made 
investments in the territory of another Party; 
 
Note:  The  Parties  understand  that  an 
investor  of  a  Party  that  “seeks  to 
make”  investments  refers  to  an 
investor  of  a  Party  that  has  taken 
74 
  
 
active steps to initiate a notification or 
approval process, where applicable, 
for making an investment for a permit 
or  licence  which  authorises  the 
investor to establish investments. 
 
(e)  “juridical person of a Party” means any legal 
entity duly constituted or otherwise organised 
under a Party’s applicable law, whether for 
profit  or  otherwise,  and  whether  privately-
owned  or  governmentally-owned,  including 
any  corporation,  trust,  partnership,  sole 
proprietorship,  joint  venture,  or  other 
association or organisation; 
 
(f)  “measure” means any measure, whether in 
the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, 
decision, administrative action, or any other 
form, affecting investors or investments; 
 
(g)  “measure  by  a  Party”  means  any  measure 
adopted or maintained by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments 
and authorities of a Party; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the 
exercise  of  powers  delegated  by 
central, regional or local governments 
or authorities of a Party; and 
 
(h)  “natural  person  of  a  Party”  means,  for  the 
purposes  of  subparagraph  (d),  a  natural 
person who under the law of that Party: 
 
(i)  is a national or citizen of that Party; or 
 
(ii)  has the right of permanent residence in 
that Party, where both that Party and 
another  Party  recognise  permanent 
residents and accord substantially the 
same  treatment  to  their  respective 
permanent residents as they accord to 
their respective nationals in respect of 
measures affecting investment. 
   
75 
  
 
Article 51.3 
National Treatment 
 
Each Party shall accord to investors of another Party and to 
their covered investments treatment no less favourable than 
that it accords, in like circumstances, to its own investors 
and  to  their  investments  with  respect  to  establishment, 
acquisition,  expansion,  management,  conduct,  operation 
and sale or other disposition of investments in its territory. 
 
Note: The application of this Article is subject to Article 
51.23. 
 
Article 51.4 
General Treatment 
 
1.  Each Party shall accord to covered investments fair 
and equitable treatment and full protection and security, in 
accordance with customary international law. 
 
2.  For  greater  certainty,  the  concepts  of  “fair  and 
equitable treatment” and “full protection and security” do not 
require treatment in addition to or beyond that which is 
required under the customary international law referred to 
in paragraph 1, and do not create additional substantive 
rights. 
 
3.  The Parties understand that: 
 
(a)  “fair and equitable treatment” requires each 
Party  not  to  deny  justice  in  any  legal  or 
administrative proceedings in accordance with 
the principle of due process of law; and 
 
(b)  “full  protection  and  security”  requires  each 
Party  to  take  such  measures  as  may  be 
reasonably necessary to ensure the protection 
and security of the covered investment. 
 
4.  A determination that there has been a breach of 
another  provision  of  this  Chapter,  or  of  a  separate 
international agreement, does not establish that there has 
been a breach of this Article. 
   
76 
  
 
Article 51.5 
Prohibition of Performance Requirements 
 
1.  No Party shall impose or enforce as a condition for 
establishment,  acquisition,  expansion,  management, 
conduct,  operation  and  sale  or  other  disposition  of 
investments in its territory of an investor of another Party 
any of the following requirements: 
 
(a)  to export a given level or percentage of goods; 
 
(b)  to  achieve  a  given  level  or  percentage  of 
domestic content; 
 
(c)  to purchase, use or accord a preference to 
goods produced in its territory, or to purchase 
goods from a person or any other entity in its 
territory; 
 
(d)  to relate the volume or value of imports to the 
volume or value of exports or to the amount of 
foreign exchange inflows associated with the 
investments of that investor; or 
 
(e)  to restrict sales of goods in its territory that the 
investments  of  that  investor  produce  or 
provide by relating such sales to the volume or 
value  of  its  exports  or  foreign  exchange 
earnings. 
 
2.  No  Party  may  condition  the  receipt  or  continued 
receipt  of  an  advantage,  in  connection  with  investment 
activities in its territory of an investor of another Party, on 
compliance with any of the following requirements: 
 
(a)  to  achieve  a  given  level  or  percentage  of 
domestic content; 
 
(b)  to purchase, use or accord a preference to 
goods produced or services provided in its 
territory, or to purchase goods from a person 
or any other entity in its territory; 
 
(c)  to relate the volume or value of imports to the 
volume or value of exports or to the amount of 
77 
  
 
foreign  exchange  inflows  associated  with 
investments of that investor; or 
 
(d)  to restrict sales of goods in its territory that 
investments  of  that  investor  produce  or 
provide by relating such sales to the volume or 
value  of  its  exports  or  foreign  exchange 
earnings. 
 
3.  Subparagraphs  2(a)  and  (b)  shall  not  apply  to 
requirements imposed by an importing Party relating to the 
content of goods necessary to qualify for preferential tariffs 
or preferential quotas. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, paragraphs 1 and 2 do not 
apply to any requirement other than the requirements set 
out in those paragraphs. 
 
Note:  The application of this Article is subject to Article 
51.23. 
 
Article 51.6 
Senior Management and Boards of Directors 
 
1.  A Party shall not require a juridical person of that 
Party  that  is  a  covered  investment  to  appoint  to  senior 
management positions natural persons of any particular 
nationality. 
 
2.  A Party may require that a majority of the members 
of the board of directors, or any committee thereof, of a 
juridical person of that Party that is a covered investment, 
be of a particular nationality or resident in the territory of the 
Party, provided that the requirement does not materially 
impair the ability of the investor to exercise control over its 
investment. 
 
Note:  The application of this Article is subject to Article 
51.23. 
 
Article 51.7 
Reservations and Exceptions 
 
1.  Articles 51.3, 51.5 and 51.6 shall not apply to: 
 
78 
  
 
(a)  any existing non-conforming measure that is 
maintained by the following, as set out in the 
Schedule of each Party in Annex 10-I: 
 
(i)  the central government of the Party; or 
 
(ii)  a  prefecture  of  Japan  or  a  regional 
government  of  an  ASEAN  Member 
State; 
 
(b)  any existing non-conforming measure that is 
maintained by a local government of a Party 
other than those referred to in subparagraph 
(a)(ii); 
 
(c)  the continuation or prompt renewal of any non-
conforming  measure  referred  to  in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b); or 
 
(d)  an amendment or modification to any non-
conforming  measure  referred  to  in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b), provided that the 
amendment  or  modification  does  not 
decrease the conformity of the measure, as it 
existed at the date of entry into force of the 
Party’s Schedule in Annex 10-I, with Articles 
51.3, 51.5 and 51.6. 
 
2.  Articles 51.3, 51.5 and 51.6 shall not apply to any 
measure that a Party adopts or maintains with respect to 
sectors, subsectors or activities set out in its Schedule in 
Annex 10-II. 
 
3.  No  Party  shall,  under  any  measure  adopted  and 
covered by its Schedule in Annex 10-II, require an investor 
of  another  Party,  by  reason  of  its  nationality,  to  sell  or 
otherwise dispose of an investment that exists at the time 
that  the  measure  becomes  effective,  unless  otherwise 
specified in the initial approval by the relevant authorities. 
 
4.  In cases where a Party makes an amendment or a 
modification pursuant to subparagraph 1(d) to any existing 
non-conforming measure set out in its Schedule in Annex 
10-I, or adopts any new or more restrictive measure with 
respect to sectors, subsectors or activities set out in its 
Schedule  in  Annex  10-II,  the  Party  shall,  prior  to  the 
79 
  
 
implementation of the amendment or modification or the 
new or more restrictive measure, or as soon as possible 
thereafter: 
 
(a)  notify the other Parties of detailed information 
on such amendment or modification, or such 
measure; and 
 
(b)  respond, upon request of another Party, to 
specific  questions  from  another  Party,  with 
respect to such amendment or modification, or 
such measure. 
 
5.  Each Party shall endeavour, where appropriate, to 
reduce  or  eliminate  the  reservations  specified  in  its 
Schedules in Annexes 10-I and 10-II respectively. 
 
6.  Article 51.3 shall not apply to any measure covered 
by the exceptions to, or derogations from, obligations under 
Articles 3 and 4 of the Agreement on the Trade-Related 
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights in Annex 1C to the 
WTO  Agreement  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “TRIPS 
Agreement”) as specifically provided in Articles 3 through 5 
of the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
Note:  The application of this Article is subject to Article 
51.23. 
 
Article 51.8 
Public Comments 
 
Each  Party  shall,  to  the  extent  provided  for  under  its 
domestic legal framework, endeavour to provide, except in 
cases  of  emergency,  a  reasonable  opportunity  for 
comments by the public before the adoption of regulations 
of general application that affect any matter covered by this 
Chapter. 
 
Article 51.9 
Expropriation and Compensation 
 
1.  No  Party  shall  expropriate  or  nationalise  covered 
investments,  or  take  any  measure  equivalent  to 
expropriation or nationalisation (hereinafter referred to as 
“expropriation”), except: 
 
80 
  
 
(a)  for a public purpose; 
 
(b)  in accordance with due process of law; 
 
(c)  on a non-discriminatory basis; and 
 
(d)  upon  payment  of  prompt,  adequate  and 
effective compensation. 
 
2.  For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  1(d),  the 
compensation shall: 
 
(a)  be equivalent to the fair market value of the 
expropriated investment at the time when the 
expropriation  was  publicly  announced,  or 
when the expropriation occurred, whichever is 
earlier; 
 
Note:  In  the  case  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Philippines,  the  time  when  the 
expropriation was publicly announced 
refers to the date of filing of the Petition 
for Expropriation. 
 
(b)  not  reflect  any  change  in  value  occurring 
because  the  intended  expropriation  had 
become publicly known earlier; 
 
(c)  be settled and paid without undue delay; and 
 
Note:  The Parties understand that there may 
be legal and administrative processes 
that  need  to  be  observed  before 
payment can be made. 
 
(d)  be  effectively  realisable  and  freely 
transferable. 
 
3.  The compensation shall include appropriate interest. 
The compensation, including any accrued interest, shall be 
payable either in the currency of the expropriating Party, or 
if requested by the investor, in a freely usable currency. 
 
4.  If an investor requests payment in a freely usable 
currency, the compensation, including any accrued interest, 
81 
  
 
shall  be  converted  into  the  currency  of  payment  at  the 
market exchange rate prevailing on the date of payment. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding  paragraphs  1  through  4,  any 
measure of expropriation relating to land shall be as defined 
in  the  existing  domestic  laws  and  regulations  of  the 
expropriating Party on the date of entry into force of the First 
Protocol,  and  shall  be,  for  the  purposes  of  and  upon 
payment of compensation, in accordance with the aforesaid 
laws and regulations. Such compensation shall be subject 
to any subsequent amendments to the aforesaid laws and 
regulations relating to the amount of compensation where 
such amendments follow the general trends in the market 
value of the land. 
 
6.  This  Article  shall  not  apply  to  the  issuance  of 
compulsory licences concerning intellectual property rights 
in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement. 
 
Article 51.10 
Compensation for Losses or Damages 
 
Each Party shall accord to investors of another Party that 
have  suffered  loss  or  damage  relating  to  their  covered 
investments in the territory of the former Party owing to war, 
armed conflict or a state of emergency such as revolution, 
insurrection, civil strife or any other similar event in that 
former  Party,  treatment,  as  regards  restitution, 
indemnification, compensation or any other settlement, that 
is no less favourable than that which it accords to its own 
investors or to investors of a non-Party. 
 
Article 51.11 
Transfers 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  allow  all  transfers  relating  to 
covered investments to be made freely and without delay 
into and out of its territory. Such transfers shall include: 
 
(a)  the initial capital and additional amounts to 
maintain or increase investments; 
 
(b)  profits,  interest,  capital  gains,  dividends, 
royalties,  technical  assistance  fees, 
management fees and other current income 
accruing from covered investments; 
82 
  
 
 
(c)  payments made under a contract, including 
payments made under a loan agreement in 
connection with covered investments; 
 
(d)  proceeds  from  the  total  or  partial  sale  or 
liquidation of covered investments; 
 
(e)  earnings and other remuneration of personnel 
engaged  in  activities  in  connection  with 
covered investments; 
 
(f)  payments made in accordance with Articles 
51.9 and 51.10; and 
 
(g)  payments arising out of the settlement of an 
investment dispute under Article 51.13. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  allow  transfers  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1 to be made in a freely usable currency at the 
market rate of exchange prevailing in its territory on the date 
of the transfer. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, a Party may 
delay  or  prevent  a  transfer  through  the  equitable,  non-
discriminatory and good-faith application of its laws and 
regulations relating to: 
 
(a)  bankruptcy, insolvency or the protection of the 
rights of creditors; 
 
(b)  issuing,  trading  or  dealing  in  securities, 
futures, options or derivatives; 
 
(c)  criminal or penal offences; 
 
(d)  obligations arising from social security, public 
retirement or compulsory savings scheme; 
 
(e)  ensuring compliance with orders or judgments 
in judicial or administrative proceedings; 
 
(f)  severance entitlement of employees; 
 
83 
  
 
(g)  reports or record keeping of transfers when 
necessary  to  assist  law  enforcement  or 
financial regulatory authorities; and 
 
(h)  the  requirement  to  register  and  satisfy  any 
other formalities imposed by the central bank 
and any other relevant authorities of a Party. 
 
Note:  For greater certainty, by virtue of paragraph 1 
of Article 6, each Party may delay or prevent a 
transfer  through  the  equitable,  non-
discriminatory and good-faith application of its 
laws  and  regulations  relating  to  taxation 
measures. 
 
4.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and 
obligations of the Parties as members of the IMF under the 
Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  IMF,  including  the  use  of 
exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles 
of Agreement of the IMF. 
 
Article 51.12 
Subrogation 
 
1.  Where a Party or an agency authorised by that Party 
has granted a contract of insurance or any form of financial 
guarantee with regard to a covered investment by one of its 
investors in the territory of another Party and when payment 
has been made under such contract or financial guarantee 
by the former Party or the agency authorised by it, the latter 
Party shall recognise the subrogation or transfer of any right 
or claim with regard to such investment. The subrogated or 
transferred  right  or  claim  shall  not  be  greater  than  the 
original right or claim of the investor. 
 
2.  Where a Party or an agency authorised by the Party 
has made a payment to its investor and has taken over 
rights and claims of the investor, that investor shall not, 
unless authorised to act on behalf of the Party or the agency 
authorised by the Party making the payment, pursue those 
rights and claims against the other Party. 
 
3.  In the exercise of subrogated rights or claims, a Party 
or an agency authorised by the Party exercising such rights 
or  claims  shall  disclose  the  coverage  of  the  claims 
84 
  
 
arrangement with its investors to the other Party referred to 
in paragraph 2. 
 
4.  Articles 51.9, 51.10 and 51.11 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis as regards payment to be made to the Party or the 
agency prescribed in paragraphs 1 and 2 by virtue of such 
subrogation or transfer of rights or claims, and the transfer 
of such payment. 
 
Article 51.13 
Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Party 
and an Investor of Another Party 
 
1.  This  Article  shall  apply  to  investment  disputes 
between  a  Party  and  an  investor  of  another  Party 
concerning an alleged breach of an obligation of the former 
Party under this Chapter which causes loss or damage to 
the covered investment of the investor. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter, the term: 
 
(a)  “disputing investor” means an investor of a 
Party  that  makes  a  claim  against  another 
Party under this Article; 
 
(b)  “disputing Party” means a Party against which 
a claim is made under this Article; 
 
(c)  “disputing parties” means a disputing investor 
and a disputing Party; 
 
(d)   “disputing  party”  means  either  a  disputing 
investor or a disputing Party; 
 
(e)  “ICSID Convention” means the Convention on 
the  Settlement  of  Investment  Disputes 
between States and Nationals of Other States, 
done at Washington, 18 March 1965; 
 
(f)  “ICSID Additional Facility Rules” means the 
Rules Governing the Additional Facility for the 
Administration  of  Proceedings  by  the 
Secretariat  of  the  International  Centre  for 
Settlement of Investment Disputes; 
 
85 
  
 
(g)  “New  York  Convention”  means  the 
Convention  on  the  Recognition  and 
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done 
at New York, 10 June 1958; 
 
(h)  “UNCITRAL  Arbitration  Rules”  means  the 
arbitration  rules  of  the  United  Nations 
Commission  on  International  Trade  Law 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly, 15 December 1976; and 
 
(i)  “UNCITRAL  Conciliation  Rules”  means  the 
conciliation  rules  of  the  United  Nations 
Commission  on  International  Trade  Law 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly, 4 December 1980. 
 
3.  Subject to subparagraph 10(c), nothing in this Article 
shall be construed so as to prevent a disputing investor from 
seeking  administrative  or  judicial  settlement  within  the 
territory of the disputing Party. 
 
4.  A  natural  person  possessing  the  nationality  or 
citizenship of the disputing Party shall not pursue a claim 
against that Party under this Article. 
 
5.  Any investment dispute shall, as far as possible, be 
settled  amicably  through  consultations  between  the 
disputing parties. 
 
6.  In the event that an investment dispute cannot be 
settled by consultation as provided for in paragraph 5, the 
disputing investor may, subject to this Article, submit to 
courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party or to 
conciliation or arbitration under this Article a claim: 
 
(a)  that  the  disputing  Party  has  breached  an 
obligation  under  Article  51.3,  Article  51.4, 
subparagraphs 1(a) through (d) of Article 51.5, 
Article  51.6,  Article  51.9,  Article  51.10  and 
Article  51.11  relating  to  the  management, 
conduct, operation, or sale or other disposition 
of a covered investment; and 
 
86 
  
 
(b)  that  the  disputing  investor  or  its  covered 
investment has incurred loss or damage by 
reason of, or arising out of, that breach. 
 
7.  (a)  A  disputing  investor  may  submit  a  claim 
referred to in paragraph 6 at the choice of the 
disputing  investor  to  one  of  the  following 
alternatives: 
 
(i)  courts or administrative tribunals of the 
disputing  Party,  provided  that  such 
courts or administrative tribunals have 
jurisdiction over such claim; 
 
(ii)  conciliation  or  arbitration  under  the 
ICSID Convention and the ICSID Rules 
of  Procedure  for  Conciliation 
Proceedings and the ICSID Rules of 
Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings, 
provided that both the disputing Party 
and the Party of the disputing investor 
are parties to the ICSID Convention; 
 
(iii)  conciliation  or  arbitration  under  the 
ICSID  Additional  Facility  Rules, 
provided that either the disputing Party 
or the Party of the disputing investor, 
but not both, is a party to the ICSID 
Convention; 
 
(iv)  conciliation  under  the  UNCITRAL 
Conciliation Rules or arbitration under 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or 
 
(v)  if agreed with the disputing Party, any 
other arbitration institution or arbitration 
under any other arbitration rules. 
 
(b)  For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  7(a),  a 
disputing  investor  may  submit  a  claim  to 
conciliation  or  arbitration  under 
subparagraphs (a)(ii) through (v), only if the 
investment  dispute  cannot  be  resolved  as 
provided  for  in  paragraph  5  within  one 
hundred and eighty (180) days from the date 
87 
  
 
of receipt by the disputing Party of a written 
request for consultation and negotiation. 
 
8.  Once the disputing investor has submitted the claim 
to the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing 
Party, the choice of forum shall be final. 
 
9.  (a)  Each Party hereby consents to the submission 
of a claim to conciliation or arbitration set forth 
in  paragraph  7  in  accordance  with  the 
procedures set out in this Article. 
 
Note 1: Notwithstanding subparagraph 9(a), in 
the  event  of  an  investment  dispute 
between  the  Republic  of  Indonesia 
and an investor of another Party or the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines  and  an 
investor of another Party, consent to 
the submission of a claim under the 
ICSID  Convention  and  the  ICSID 
Rules  of  Procedure  for  Arbitration 
Proceedings  shall  be  subject  to  a 
separate written agreement between 
the  disputing  parties.  For  greater 
certainty,  the  institution  of 
proceedings,  commencement  of 
conciliation proceedings, or reference 
to  arbitration  under  subparagraphs 
7(a)(iii) and (iv) shall be governed by 
the  applicable  arbitration  or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 2: Notwithstanding subparagraph 9(a), in 
the  case  of  an  investment  dispute 
between the Kingdom of Thailand and 
an  investor  of  another  Party  or 
between  another  Party  and  an 
investor of the Kingdom of Thailand, 
the  disputing  Party  consents  to  the 
submission of a claim to conciliation or 
88 
  
 
arbitration  set  forth  in  paragraph  7, 
provided that the Kingdom of Thailand 
and the other Party had consented to 
submission  of  a  claim  to  the 
conciliation  or  arbitration  in  existing 
international  agreements  to  which 
both the Kingdom of Thailand and that 
other Party are parties. Such consent 
shall be subject to the same conditions 
and limitations as stipulated in such 
international agreements. 
 
(b)  The consent given under subparagraph 9(a) 
and the submission by a disputing investor of 
an  investment  dispute  to  conciliation  or 
arbitration shall satisfy the requirements of: 
 
(i)  Chapter II of the ICSID Convention or 
the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, for 
written  consent  of  the  parties  to  an 
investment dispute; and 
 
(ii)  Article II of the New York Convention 
for an agreement in writing. 
 
10.  The  submission  of  a  claim  to  conciliation  or 
arbitration under subparagraph 7(a)(ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Article  shall  be 
conditional upon: 
 
(a)  the  submission  of  the  claim  to  such 
conciliation or arbitration taking place within 
three (3) years from the time at which the 
disputing investor became aware, or should 
reasonably have become aware, of a breach 
of an obligation referred to in subparagraph 
6(a) causing loss or damage to the disputing 
investor or its covered investment; 
 
(b)  the disputing investor providing written notice, 
which shall be submitted at least ninety (90) 
days  before  the  claim  is  submitted,  to  the 
disputing  Party  of  the  disputing  investor’s 
intent to submit the claim to such conciliation 
or arbitration. The notice shall: 
 
89 
  
 
(i)  specify  either  subparagraph  7(a)(ii), 
(iii), (iv) or (v) as the forum for dispute 
settlement  and,  in  the  case  of 
subparagraphs  7(a)(ii)  through  (iv), 
whether  conciliation  or  arbitration  is 
being sought; and 
 
(ii)  briefly summarise the alleged breach of 
the disputing Party under this Chapter, 
including the Articles alleged to have 
been  breached,  and  the  loss  or 
damage  allegedly  caused  to  the 
disputing  investor  or  its  covered 
investment; and 
 
(c)  the written request or invitation to conciliate or 
notice of arbitration being accompanied by the 
disputing investor’s written waiver of any right 
to  initiate  or  continue  before  any  court  or 
administrative tribunal under the law of either 
Party or other dispute settlement mechanisms 
including  investment  dispute  settlement 
mechanisms  under  any  other  bilateral  or 
multilateral  agreement  to  which  both  the 
disputing Party and the Party of the disputing 
investor  are  parties,  any  proceedings  with 
respect to any measure of the disputing Party 
alleged to constitute a breach referred to in 
paragraph 6. Accordingly, once the disputing 
investor has submitted the claim to any of the 
conciliation or arbitration under subparagraph 
7(a)(ii), (iii), (iv) or (v), the choice of forum shall 
be final. 
 
11.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 10(c), the disputing 
investor may initiate or continue an action that seeks interim 
injunctive  relief  for  the  sole  purpose  of  preserving  the 
disputing  investor’s  rights  and  interests  and  does  not 
involve  the  payment  of  damages  or  resolution  of  the 
substance of the matter in dispute before a court or an 
administrative tribunal under the law of the disputing Party. 
 
12.  No Party shall give diplomatic protection, nor bring 
an international claim, in respect of an investment dispute 
which one of its investors and any one of the other Parties 
shall  have  consented  to  submit  or  have  submitted  to 
90 
  
 
conciliation or arbitration under this Article, unless such 
other Party has failed to abide by and comply with the award 
rendered in such investment dispute. Diplomatic protection, 
for the purposes of this paragraph, shall not include informal 
diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a 
settlement of the investment dispute. 
 
13.  An arbitral tribunal established under paragraph 7 
shall decide the issues in dispute in accordance with this 
Chapter,  and  applicable  rules  of  international  law  and, 
where applicable, relevant domestic laws of the disputing 
Party. 
 
Note:  The arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction 
to determine the legality of a measure alleged 
to constitute a breach of this Chapter under 
the domestic law of the disputing Party. 
 
14.  An arbitral tribunal shall address and decide on any 
objection  by  the  disputing  Party  that  a  claim  is  not 
admissible,  or  the  claim  is  outside  the  jurisdiction  or 
competence  of  the  arbitral  tribunal,  provided  that  the 
disputing Party so requests as soon as possible after the 
arbitral tribunal is established, and in no event later than the 
date that the arbitral tribunal fixes for the disputing Party to 
submit its counter-memorial. 
 
15.  Notwithstanding paragraph 14, the arbitral tribunal 
may  on  its  initiative  consider,  at  any  stage  of  the 
proceeding, whether the claim is admissible, or within the 
jurisdiction or competence of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
16.  In general, the arbitral tribunal should decide on the 
objection  referred  to  in  paragraph  14  as  a  preliminary 
question. However, the arbitral tribunal may join it to the 
merits  of  the  claim.  In  considering  whether  to  join  the 
objection to the merits of the claim, the arbitral tribunal shall, 
as  far  as  possible,  obtain  the  consent  of  the  disputing 
parties. 
 
17.  Unless the disputing parties have agreed to another 
expedited procedure for making preliminary objections, a 
disputing Party may, no later than ninety (90) days after the 
constitution of the arbitral tribunal, and in any event before 
the first session of the arbitral tribunal, file an objection that 
a claim is manifestly without legal merit. The disputing Party 
91 
  
 
shall  specify  as  precisely  as  possible  the  basis  for  the 
objection. The arbitral tribunal, after giving the disputing 
parties the opportunity to present their observations on the 
objection, shall, at its first session or promptly thereafter, 
notify the disputing parties of its decision on the objection. 
The  decision  of  the  arbitral  tribunal  shall  be  without 
prejudice to the right of a disputing Party to file an objection 
pursuant to paragraph 14 or to object, in the course of the 
proceeding, that a claim lacks legal merit. 
 
18.  If the arbitral tribunal decides that the claim is not 
admissible,  or  the  claim  is  outside  the  jurisdiction  or 
competence of the arbitral tribunal, or that the claim is 
manifestly without legal merit, it shall render an award to 
that effect. 
 
19.  The arbitral tribunal may, if warranted, award the 
prevailing  disputing  party  reasonable  costs  and  fees 
incurred  in  submitting  or  opposing  the  objection.  In 
determining  whether  such  an  award  is  warranted,  the 
arbitral tribunal shall consider whether either the claim or 
the objection was frivolous or manifestly without legal merit, 
and shall provide the disputing parties with a reasonable 
opportunity to comment. 
 
20.  (a)  The arbitral tribunal shall at the request of a 
disputing Party, or may on its own account, 
request a joint interpretation of any provision 
of this Chapter that is in issue in an investment 
dispute. The Parties shall submit in writing any 
joint  decision  declaring  their  interpretation 
made  by  consensus  to  the  arbitral  tribunal 
within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt 
of  the  request.  Without  prejudice  to 
subparagraph (b), if the Parties fail to issue 
such a decision within sixty (60) days, any 
interpretation submitted by a Party shall be 
forwarded  to  the  disputing  parties  and  the 
arbitral tribunal, which shall decide the issue 
on its own account. 
 
(b)  A joint decision of the Joint Committee on the 
interpretation of any provision of this Chapter 
under subparagraph 2(e)(iv) of Article 11 shall 
be  binding  on  an  arbitral  tribunal,  and  any 
92 
  
 
decision or award issued by an arbitral tribunal 
must be consistent with that joint decision. 
 
21.  Unless  the  disputing  parties  agree  otherwise,  the 
arbitration shall be held in a country that is a party to the 
New York Convention. 
 
22.  Each Party shall provide for the enforcement of an 
award in its territory. 
 
23.  An award made by an arbitral tribunal shall be final 
and binding upon the disputing parties. An award shall have 
no binding force except between the disputing parties and 
in respect of the particular case. 
 
Article 51.14 
General Exceptions 
 
Subject to the requirement that such measures are not 
applied in a manner which would constitute a means of 
arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between the Parties 
or  their  investors  where  like  conditions  prevail,  or  a 
disguised restriction on investors or investments made by 
investors of another Party, nothing in this Chapter shall be 
construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any 
Party of measures: 
 
(a)  necessary  to  protect  public  morals  or  to 
maintain public order, provided that the public 
order exception may only be invoked where a 
genuine  and  sufficiently  serious  threat  is 
posed to one of the fundamental interests of 
society; 
 
(b)  necessary to protect human, animal or plant 
life or health; 
 
(c)  necessary to secure compliance with laws or 
regulations which are not inconsistent with the 
provisions  of  this  Chapter  including  those 
relating to: 
 
(i)  the  prevention  of  deceptive  and 
fraudulent practices or to deal with the 
effects of a default on contracts; 
 
93 
  
 
(ii)  the  protection  of  the  privacy  of 
individuals in relation to the processing 
and dissemination of personal data and 
the  protection  of  confidentiality  of 
individual records and accounts; or 
 
(iii)  safety; 
 
(d)  imposed  for  the  protection  of  national 
treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological 
value; or 
 
(e)  relating  to  the  conservation  of  exhaustible 
natural resources if such measures are made 
effective  in  conjunction  with  restrictions  on 
domestic production or consumption. 
 
Article 51.15 
Special Formalities and Information Requirements 
 
1.  Nothing in Article 51.3 shall be construed to prevent 
a  Party  from  adopting  or  maintaining  a  measure  that 
prescribes  special  formalities  in  connection  with 
investments, including a requirement that investments be 
legally constituted or comply with registration requirements, 
provided that such formalities do not materially impair the 
rights afforded by a Party to investors of another Party and 
investments pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding Article 51.3, a Party may require an 
investor  of  another  Party,  or  a  covered  investment,  to 
provide information concerning that investment solely for 
information or statistical purposes. The Party shall protect 
any confidential information from any disclosure that would 
prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests  of  particular 
juridical  persons,  public  or  private,  or  the  competitive 
position of the investor or the covered investment. Nothing 
in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from 
otherwise obtaining or disclosing information in connection 
with the equitable and good-faith application of its law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
94 
  
 
Article 51.16 
Special and Differential Treatment for the Newer 
ASEAN Member States 
 
In order to increase benefits of this Chapter for the newer 
ASEAN Member States, and in accordance with Articles 2, 
3  and  52,  special  and  differential  treatment  should  be 
accorded to the newer ASEAN Member States under this 
Chapter, through: 
 
(a)  access  to  information  on  the  investment 
policies of other Parties, business information, 
relevant  databases  and  contact  point  for 
investment promotion; 
 
(b)  technical  assistance  to  strengthen  their 
capacity in relation to investment policies and 
promotion including in areas such as human 
resource development; 
 
(c)  commitments in areas of interest to the newer 
ASEAN Member States; and 
 
(d)  recognising that commitments by each newer 
ASEAN  Member  State  may  be  made  in 
accordance  with  its  individual  stage  of 
development. 
 
Article 51.17 
Promotion of Investment 
 
1.  Each  Party  should  further  promote  investment  in 
order  to  strengthen  the  economic  relationship  among 
Parties. 
 
2.  Subject  to  their  laws  and  regulations  and  the 
availability of funds, the Parties shall cooperate in promoting 
and  increasing  awareness  of  ASEAN-Japan  as  an 
investment area, where possible, through, among others: 
 
(a)  organising investment promotion activities; 
 
(b)  promoting business matching events; 
 
(c)  organising and supporting the organisation of 
various briefings and seminars on investment 
95 
  
 
opportunities  and  on  investment  laws, 
regulations and policies; and 
 
(d)  conducting  information  exchanges  on  other 
issues  of  mutual  concern  relating  to 
investment promotion and facilitation. 
 
Article 51.18 
Facilitation of Investment 
 
1.  Each Party shall endeavour to further create stable, 
favourable and transparent conditions in order to encourage 
greater  investment  by  investors  of  another  Party  in  its 
territory. 
 
2.  Subject  to  their  laws  and  regulations  and  the 
availability of funds, the Parties shall cooperate to facilitate 
investments among ASEAN Member States and Japan, 
where possible, through, among others: 
 
(a)  creating  the  necessary  environment  for  all 
forms of investment; 
 
(b)  simplifying  procedures  for  investment 
applications and approvals; 
 
(c)  promoting  dissemination  of  investment 
information,  including  investment  rules, 
regulations, policies and procedures; and 
 
(d)  establishing  one-stop  investment  centres  in 
the  respective  host  Parties  to  provide 
assistance  and  advisory  services  to  the 
business  sectors  including  facilitation  of 
operating licences and permits. 
 
Article 51.19 
Temporary Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  A  Party  may  adopt  or  maintain  measures  not 
conforming with its obligations under Article 51.3 relating to 
cross-border capital transactions and Article 51.11: 
 
(a)  in the event of serious balance-of-payments 
and  external  financial  difficulties  or  threat 
thereof; or 
96 
  
 
(b)  in cases where, in exceptional circumstances, 
movements  of  capital  cause  or  threaten  to 
cause serious difficulties for macroeconomic 
management,  in  particular,  monetary  and 
exchange rate policies. 
 
2.  The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall: 
 
(a)  be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of 
the IMF; 
 
(b)  avoid  unnecessary  damage  to  the 
commercial, economic and financial interests 
of another Party; 
 
(c)  not exceed those necessary to deal with the 
circumstances described in paragraph 1; 
 
(d)  be temporary and phased out progressively as 
the  situation  specified  in  paragraph  1 
improves; and 
 
(e)  be  applied  such  that  any  one  of  the  other 
Parties is treated no less favourably than any 
other Party or non-Party. 
 
3.  Any  measures  adopted  or  maintained  under 
paragraph 1 shall be promptly notified to the other Parties. 
 
Article 51.20 
Prudential Measures 
 
1.  Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Chapter, 
a  Party  shall  not  be  prevented  from  taking  measures 
relating  to  financial  services  for  prudential  reasons, 
including  measures  for  the  protection  of  investors, 
depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary 
duty is owed by an entity supplying financial services, or to 
ensure the integrity and stability of its financial system. 
 
2.  Where the measures taken by a Party pursuant to 
paragraph 1 do not conform with this Chapter, they shall not 
be  used  as  a  means  of  avoiding  the  commitments  or 
obligations of the Party under this Chapter. 
 
97 
  
 
3.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require 
a Party to disclose information relating to the affairs and 
accounts  of  individual  customers  or  any  confidential  or 
proprietary information in the possession of public entities. 
 
Article 51.21 
Denial of Benefits 
 
1.  A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an 
investor of another Party that is a juridical person of the 
latter Party and to its investments if the juridical person is 
owned or controlled by an investor of a non-Party and the 
denying Party: 
 
(a)  does not maintain diplomatic relations with the 
non-Party; or 
 
(b)  adopts or maintains measures with respect to 
the non-Party that prohibit transactions with 
the juridical person or that would be violated 
or circumvented if the benefits of this Chapter 
were accorded to the juridical person or to its 
investments. 
 
2.  A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an 
investor of another Party that is a juridical person of the 
latter Party and to its investments if the juridical person is 
owned or controlled by an investor of a non-Party or of the 
denying Party and the juridical person has no substantive 
business operations in the territory of that latter Party. 
 
Note:  The denying Party shall endeavour to notify 
the other Parties of its decision to deny the 
benefits  of  this  Chapter  to  an  investor  of 
another Party. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Article, a juridical person is: 
 
(a)  “owned” by an investor if more than fifty (50) 
per  cent  of  the  equity  interest  in  it  is 
beneficially owned by the investor; and 
 
(b)  “controlled” by an investor if the investor has 
the power to name a majority of its directors or 
otherwise to legally direct its actions. 
 
98 
  
 
4.  Following  notification,  and  without  prejudice  to 
paragraphs 1 through 3, the Republic of the Philippines may 
deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor of another 
Party  and  to  investments  of  that  investor,  where  it 
establishes that such investor has made an investment in 
breach of the provisions of Commonwealth Act No. 108, 
entitled “An Act to Punish Acts of Evasion of Laws on the 
Nationalization of Certain Rights, Franchises or Privileges”, 
as amended by Presidential Decree No. 715, otherwise 
known as “The Anti-Dummy Law”, as may be amended. 
 
Article 51.22 
Sub-Committee on Investment 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Investment 
(hereinafter referred to in this Article as “Sub-Committee”) 
shall be established pursuant to Article 11. 
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to: 
 
(a)  discuss and review the implementation and 
operation of this Chapter; 
 
(b)  review the exceptional measures maintained, 
amended,  modified  or  adopted  pursuant  to 
paragraph 1 of Article 51.7 for the purpose of 
contributing to the reduction or elimination of 
such exceptional measures; 
 
(c)  discuss the exceptional measures adopted or 
maintained pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 
51.7  for  the  purpose  of  encouraging 
favourable  conditions  for  investors  of  the 
Parties; 
 
(d)  discuss any other investment-related matters 
concerning this Chapter; and 
 
(e)  report, where appropriate, its findings to the 
Joint Committee. 
 
 
 
 
 
99 
  
 
3.  The Sub-Committee shall be: 
 
(a)  composed  of  representatives  of  the 
Governments of ASEAN Member States and 
Japan; and 
 
(b)  co-chaired  by  an  official  of  one  of  the 
Governments of ASEAN Member States and 
an official of the Government of Japan. 
 
4.  The Sub-Committee shall meet at such venues and 
times as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
5.  The Sub-Committee may, upon mutual consent of 
the Parties, invite representatives of relevant entities other 
than the Governments of the Parties with the necessary 
expertise relevant to the issues to be discussed, and hold 
joint meetings with the private sectors. 
 
Article 51.23 
Work Programme 
 
1.  The Parties shall, immediately after the date of entry 
into force of the First Protocol, enter into consultations on 
the Schedules of Reservations as referred to in Article 51.7 
with the participation of ASEAN Member States and Japan. 
The Sub-Committee on Investment referred to in Article 
51.22 shall function as the forum to discuss the matter. 
 
2.  The consultations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be 
concluded within two (2) years from the date of entry into 
force  of  the  First  Protocol,  unless  the  Parties  agree 
otherwise. 
 
3.  The Schedules of Reservations of the Parties as a 
result of the consultations referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
enter into force and be incorporated into this Agreement as 
Annexes 10-I and 10-II in accordance with Article 77. 
 
4.  Article 51.7 shall not apply until the date of entry into 
force  of  the  Schedules  of  Reservations  referred  to  in 
paragraph 3. ASEAN Member States and Japan shall enter 
into further discussions to review subparagraph 1(d) of that 
Article with a view to examining a possibility for promoting 
further liberalisation of investment. 
 
100 
  
 
5.  Article 51.3 shall not affect the right of each Party to 
adopt, maintain or apply measures that set out conditions 
and qualifications for admission of investment, including, 
but not limited to, those with regard to foreign ownership and 
control.  Upon  entry  into  force  of  the  Schedules  of 
Reservations referred to in paragraph 3, this paragraph 
shall cease to be effective. 
 
6.  Article 51.3 shall not apply to any measures that a 
Party adopts or maintains with respect to establishment, 
acquisition and expansion of investments until the date of 
entry into force of the Schedules of Reservations referred to 
in paragraph 3. 
 
7.  Pending  entry  into  force  of  the  Schedules  of 
Reservations referred to in paragraph 3: 
 
(a)  an  ASEAN  Member  State  may  adopt, 
maintain or apply any measures that do not 
conform with Article 51.3, provided that: 
 
(i)  with respect to investors of Japan or 
their  investments,  such  measures 
comply  with  any  other  international 
investment  agreement  to  which  both 
that ASEAN Member State and Japan 
are parties; 
 
(ii)  with  respect  to  investors  of  another 
ASEAN  Member  State  or  their 
investments,  such  measures  comply 
with any other international investment 
agreement  among  ASEAN  Member 
States  and  to  which  that  ASEAN 
Member State is a party; and 
 
(b)  Japan  may  adopt,  maintain  or  apply  any 
measures  that  do  not  conform  with  Article 
51.3, provided that, with respect to investors 
of  an  ASEAN  Member  State  or  their 
investments, such measures comply with any 
other international investment agreement, to 
which both that ASEAN Member State and 
Japan are parties. 
 
101 
  
 
Note 1: For  the  purposes  of  subparagraphs 
7(a)(i)  and  (b),  the  term  “other 
international  investment  agreement” 
means  any  of  the  following 
agreements, as relevant and as may 
be amended: 
 
(i)  Agreement between Japan and 
the Republic of Singapore for a 
New-Age  Economic 
Partnership, done at Singapore, 
13 January 2002; 
 
(ii)  Agreement  between  the 
Government  of  Japan  and  the 
Government of Malaysia for an 
Economic Partnership, done at 
Kuala  Lumpur,  13  December 
2005; 
 
(iii)  Agreement between Japan and 
the Republic of the Philippines 
for  an  Economic  Partnership, 
done at Helsinki, 9 September 
2006; 
 
(iv)  Agreement between Japan and 
the Kingdom of Thailand for an 
Economic Partnership, done at 
Tokyo, 3 April 2007; 
 
(v)  Agreement between Japan and 
the  Kingdom  of  Cambodia  for 
the  Liberalization,  Promotion 
and  Protection  of  Investment, 
done at Tokyo, 14 June 2007; 
 
(vi)  Agreement between Japan and 
Brunei  Darussalam  for  an 
Economic Partnership, done at 
Tokyo, 18 June 2007; 
 
(vii)  Agreement between Japan and 
the Republic of Indonesia for an 
Economic Partnership, done at 
Jakarta, 20 August 2007; 
102 
  
 
(viii)  Agreement between Japan and 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  for  the  Liberalisation, 
Promotion  and  Protection  of 
Investment, done at Tokyo, 16 
January 2008; 
 
(ix)  Agreement between Japan and 
the  Socialist  Republic  of  Viet 
Nam  for  an  Economic 
Partnership, done at Tokyo, 25 
December 2008; and 
 
(x)  Agreement  between  the 
Government  of  Japan  and  the 
Government of the Republic of 
the  Union  of  Myanmar  for  the 
Liberalisation,  Promotion  and 
Protection of Investment, done 
at Tokyo, 15 December 2013. 
 
Note 2: For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph 
7(a)(ii), the term “other international 
investment agreement” means any of 
the following agreements, as relevant 
and as may be amended: 
 
(i)  ASEAN  Comprehensive 
Investment Agreement, done at 
Cha-am, 26 February 2009; 
 
(ii)  Agreement  Establishing  the 
ASEAN-Australia-New  Zealand 
Free Trade Area, done at Cha-
am, 27 February 2009; 
 
(iii)  Agreement on Investment under 
the  Framework  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive  Economic 
Cooperation  among  the 
Governments  of  the  Member 
Countries of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the 
Republic of Korea, done at Jeju-
do, 2 June 2009; 
 
103 
  
 
(iv)  Agreement on Investment under 
the  Framework  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive  Economic 
Cooperation  between  the 
Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations  and  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China,  done  at 
Bangkok, 15 August 2009;  
 
(v)  Agreement on Investment under 
the  Framework  Agreement  on 
Comprehensive  Economic 
Cooperation  between  the 
Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations  and  the  Republic  of 
India, done at Nay Pyi Taw, 12 
November 2014; and 
 
(vi)  Agreement  on  Investment 
among the Governments of the 
Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China and 
the  Member  States  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations, done at Ha Noi, 18 May 
2018. 
 
8.  Articles 51.5 and 51.6 shall not apply until the date of 
entry into force of the Schedules of Reservations referred to 
in paragraph 3. 
 
9.  The Parties shall also enter into discussions with a 
view  to  agreeing  on  the  application  of  Most-Favoured-
Nation treatment to this Chapter, including the Schedules of 
Reservations. 
 
10.  The Parties shall also enter into consultations to seek 
agreement on the application of Articles 51.9 and 51.13 to 
taxation measures that constitute expropriation. 
   
104 
  
 
Annex A to Chapter 7 
Expropriation and Compensation 
 
1.  An action or a series of related actions by a Party 
cannot constitute an expropriation unless it interferes with 
a tangible or intangible property right or property interest in 
a covered investment. 
 
2.  Article 51.9 addresses two situations: 
 
(a)  the first situation is direct expropriation, where 
a  covered  investment  is  nationalised  or 
otherwise directly expropriated through formal 
transfer of title or outright seizure; and 
 
(b)  the second situation is where an action or a 
series of related actions by a Party that has an 
effect  equivalent  to  direct  expropriation 
without  formal  transfer  of  title  or  outright 
seizure. 
 
3.  The determination of whether an action or series of 
related  actions  by  a  Party,  in  a  specific  fact  situation, 
constitutes  an  expropriation  of  the  type  referred  to  in 
subparagraph  2(b)  requires  a  case-by-case,  fact-based 
inquiry that considers, among other factors: 
 
(a)  the  economic  impact  of  the  government 
action, although the fact that such action or 
series of related actions by a Party has an 
adverse effect on the economic value of an 
investment,  standing  alone,  does  not 
establish  that  such  an  expropriation  has 
occurred; 
 
(b)  whether the government action breaches the 
government’s  prior  binding  written 
commitment  to  the  investor,  whether  by 
contract, licence or any other legal document; 
and 
 
(c)  the  character  of  the  government  action, 
including  its  objective  and  whether  such 
action  is  disproportionate  to  the  public 
purpose. 
 
105 
  
 
4.  Non-discriminatory regulatory actions by a Party that 
are  designed  and  applied  to  achieve  legitimate  public 
welfare objectives such as the protection of public health, 
safety and the environment do not constitute expropriation 
of the type referred to in subparagraph 2(b).” 
 
   
106 
  
 
Article 7 
Amendment to Chapter 10 (Final Provisions) of  
the AJCEP Agreement 
 
Paragraph 5 of Article 77 of the AJCEP Agreement shall be replaced by 
the following: 
 
“5.  Notwithstanding paragraph 2, amendments relating 
only to: 
 
(a)  Annex 1 (provided that the amendments are 
made in accordance with the methodologies 
and  procedures  adopted  by  the  Joint 
Committee for updating Annex 1 to reflect the 
amendment of the Harmonized System); 
 
(b)  Annex 2; 
 
(c)  Attachment to Annex 4; or 
 
(d)  Annex 5, 
 
may  be  adopted  by  the  Joint  Committee.  Such 
amendments shall enter into force in relation to all the 
Parties  and  be  implemented  from  such  date  as 
agreed by the Joint Committee. 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 8 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  The  Government  of  each  signatory  State  shall  notify  the 
Governments of other signatory States in writing that its legal procedures 
necessary for entry into force of this Protocol have been completed. This 
Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the second month 
following the date by which such notifications have been made by the 
Governments of at least one (1) ASEAN Member State and Japan in 
relation to those signatory States that have made such notifications by 
that date. 
 
2.  In relation to an ASEAN Member State making the notification 
referred to in paragraph 1 after the date by which the notifications have 
107 
  
 
been made by the Governments of at least one (1) ASEAN Member 
State and Japan as referred to in paragraph 1, this Protocol shall enter 
into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which 
that ASEAN Member State makes the notification. 
  
3.  The ASEAN Member State referred to in paragraph 2 shall be 
bound by any amendment that may have been adopted by the Joint 
Committee and takes effect pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 77 of the 
AJCEP Agreement by the time of entry into force of this Protocol for it. 
This paragraph shall not prevent the Parties of the AJCEP Agreement 
for  which  this  Protocol  has  entered  into  force  from  applying  such 
amendment to that ASEAN Member State before the date of entry into 
force of this Protocol for it. 
 
4.  This  Protocol  shall  remain  in  force  as  long  as  the  AJCEP 
Agreement remains in force. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised by 
their respective Governments, have signed this Protocol. 
 
DONE in duplicate in the English language and SIGNED at Tokyo on the 
twenty-seventh day of February in the year 2019 and at Siem Reap, 
Cambodia on the second day of March in the year 2019. 
 
 
For the Government of  For the Government of Japan: 
Brunei Darussalam:   
   
   
   
   
DATO DR. AMIN LIEW  TARO KONO 
ABDULLAH  Minister for Foreign Affairs 
Minister at the Prime Minister 
Office and Minister of Finance 
and  
Economy II 
 
For the Government of 
the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
PAN SORASAK  
Minister of Commerce 
108 
  
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
ENGGARTIASTO LUKITA 
Minister of Trade 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic: 
 
 
 
 
KHEMMANI PHOLSENA 
Minister of Industry and 
Commerce 
 
 
For the Government of 
Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
DARELL LEIKING  
Minister of International Trade 
and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of the Union of  
Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
THAUNG TUN 
Union Minister for Investment 
and Foreign Economic Relations 
 
 
 
109 
  
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
RAMON M. LOPEZ 
Secretary of Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
CHAN CHUN SING  
Minister for Trade and Industry 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
CHUTIMA 
BUNYAPRAPHASARA 
Deputy Minister of Commerce 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Socialist Republic of Viet 
Nam: 
 
 
 
 
TRAN TUAN ANH 
Minister of Industry and Trade 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
111 
 