Annex 5 
Work Programmes for Economic Cooperation 
 
  The Work Programmes for Intellectual Property and 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry are in Parts 1 and 2 
respectively.  The Sub-Committee on Economic Cooperation 
shall formulate, pursuant to subparagraph 2(a) of Article 
54, new Work Programmes for the fields of economic 
cooperation that are listed in Article 53. 
 
Part 1 
Intellectual Property 
 
1.  Pursuant to Chapter 8, the Parties shall, subject to 
the availability of resources and their respective 
applicable laws and regulations, cooperate in the field of 
Intellectual Property (hereinafter referred to in this Part 
as “IP”).  
 
2.  For the purposes of ensuring the effective 
implementation and operation of this Part, as the common 
aims, the Parties shall endeavour to promote: 
 
  (a)  creation and commercialisation of IP; 
 
  (b)  exchange of information and sharing of best 
practices on transparent and simplified 
procedures concerning IP; 
 
  (c)  exchange of information and sharing of best 
practices on effective protection and enforcement 
of IP; and 
 
  (d)  public awareness of IP. 
 
3.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Part, the Sub-Committee on Economic 
Cooperation shall establish a Special Sub-Committee on 
Intellectual Property.  The functions of this Special Sub-
Committee shall be to: 
 
  (a)  review and monitor the implementation of this 
Part; 
 
  (b)  discuss any issues related to IP with a view to 
achieving the common aims described in paragraph 
2; 
 
  (c)  discuss the ways of cooperation pursuant to this 
Part; and 
   (d)  report the findings and the outcome of its 
discussions  to  the Sub-Committee on Economic 
Cooperation. 
 
Part 2 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry 
 
1.  Pursuant to Chapter 8, the Parties shall, subject to 
the availability of resources and their respective 
applicable laws and regulations, cooperate in the field of 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry.  
 
2.  The areas of cooperation under this Part shall 
include: 
 
  (a)  Research and Development;  
 
  (b)  Human Resource Development;  
 
  (c)  Information Networking and Exchange; 
 
  (d)  Trade Facilitation; and  
 
  (e)  Sustainable Forest Management. 
 
3.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Part, the Sub-Committee on Economic 
Cooperation shall establish a Special Sub-Committee on 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry.  The functions of this 
Special Sub-Committee shall be to: 
 
  (a)  exchange information and views on each Party’s 
current situations, measures and experiences;  
 
  (b)  formulate and make recommendations to the Sub-
Committee on Economic Cooperation on relevant 
economic cooperation activities; and 
 
  (c)  monitor, review and discuss the economic 
cooperation activities referred to in 
subparagraph (b). 
 
 