Article 73 
Expenses 
 
1.  The complaining party and the party complained against 
shall respectively bear the costs of the arbitrators which 
they appointed, and their own expenses and legal costs. 
 
2.  Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the 
costs of the chair of the arbitral tribunal and other 
expenses associated with the conduct of the proceedings of 
the arbitral tribunal shall be borne in equal parts by the 
parties to a dispute. 
 
3.  The arbitral tribunal shall keep a record and render a 
final account of all general expenses incurred in 
connection with the proceedings, including those paid to 
their assistants, designated note takers or other 
individuals that it retains. 
 
Chapter 10 
Final Provisions 
 
Article 74 
Table of Contents, Headings and Subheadings 
 
  The table of contents, headings and subheadings are 
inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not 
affect the interpretation of this Agreement.  
 
Article 75 
Review 
 
  The Parties shall undertake a general review of the 
implementation and operation of this Agreement in the fifth 
calendar year following the calendar year in which this 
Agreement enters into force pursuant to paragraph 1 of 
Article 79, and every five (5) years thereafter, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Parties. 
 
Article 76 
Annexes and Notes 
 
  The Annexes including attachment and Notes to this 
Agreement shall form an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Article 77 
Amendments 
 
1.  This Agreement may be amended by agreement among the 
Parties.  
 
 2.  The Government of each Party shall notify the 
Governments of the other Parties in writing that its legal 
procedures necessary for entry into force of the amendment 
have been completed.  Such amendment shall enter into force 
on the first day of the second month following the date by 
which such notifications have been made by the Governments 
of Japan and at least one (1) ASEAN Member State, which is 
a Party, in relation to those Parties whose Governments 
have made such notifications by that date. 
       
3.  Where an ASEAN Member State, which is a Party, makes 
the notification referred to in paragraph 2 after the date 
by which the notifications have been made by the 
Governments of Japan and at least one (1) ASEAN Member 
State, which is a Party, as referred to in paragraph 2, the 
amendment referred to in paragraph 1 shall enter into force 
in relation to that ASEAN Member State on the first day of 
the second month following the date on which it makes the 
notification. 
 
4.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 3, the number of 
ASEAN Member States referred to in paragraph 2 which is 
necessary for entry into force of the amendment may be 
increased by agreement among the Parties. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding paragraph 2, amendments relating only 
to: 
 
  (a)  Annex 1 (provided that the amendments are made in 
accordance with the amendment of the Harmonized 
System, and include no change on tariff rates 
applied to the originating goods of the other 
Parties in accordance with Annex 1); 
 
  (b)  Annex 2; 
 
  (c)  Attachment to Annex 4; or 
 
  (d)  Annex 5, 
 
may be made by diplomatic notes exchanged among the 
Governments of the Parties.  Such amendments shall enter 
into force in relation to all the Parties on the date 
specified in such diplomatic notes. 
 
Article 78 
Depositary 
 
  For the ASEAN Member States, this Agreement including 
its amendments shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified 
copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member State. 
 
 Article 79 
Entry into Force 
 
1.  The Government of each signatory State shall notify 
the Governments of other signatory States in writing that 
its legal procedures necessary for entry into force of this 
Agreement have been completed.  This Agreement shall enter 
into force on the first day of the second month following 
the date by which such notifications have been made by the 
Governments of Japan and at least one (1) ASEAN Member 
State, in relation to those signatory States that have made 
such notifications by that date. 
 
2.  In relation to an ASEAN Member State making the 
notification referred to in paragraph 1 after the date by 
which the notifications have been made by the Governments 
of Japan and at least one (1) ASEAN Member State as 
referred to in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall enter into 
force on the first day of the second month following the 
date on which that ASEAN Member State makes the 
notification.  That ASEAN Member State shall be bound by 
the existing terms and conditions of this Agreement, 
including any amendments that may have entered into force 
pursuant to Article 77 by the time of such notification.  
For the purposes of Annex 1, the staging of tariff 
elimination or reduction of that ASEAN Member State shall 
also commence from the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement pursuant to paragraph 1.   
 
Article 80 
Withdrawal and Termination 
 
1.  Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving 
one (1) year’s advance notice in writing to the other 
Parties.  
 
2.  This Agreement shall terminate either when all ASEAN 
Member States which are Parties withdraw in accordance with 
paragraph 1 or when Japan does so. 
 
 
 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly 
authorised by their respective Governments, have signed 
this Agreement. 
 
 DONE in duplicate in the English language and SIGNED 
at Tokyo on the            day of         in the year 2008, at 
Bandar Seri Begawan on the            day of         in the 
year 2008, at Phnom Penh on the            day of         in 
the year 2008, at Jakarta on the            day of         in 
the year 2008, at Vientiane on the            day of         
in the year 2008, at Kuala Lumpur on the            day of      
in the year 2008, at Nay Pyi Taw on the            day of      
in the year 2008, at Manila on the            day of         
in the year 2008, at Singapore on the            day of         
in the year 2008, at Bangkok on the            day of         
in the year 2008, and at Hanoi on the            day of         
in the year 2008. 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of    For the Government of 
Japan:          Brunei Darussalam: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Kingdom of Cambodia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of Indonesia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic: 
 
 
 
 
 
 For the Government of 
Malaysia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Union of Myanmar: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of 
the Philippines: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Republic of Singapore: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Kingdom of Thailand: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Government of 
the Socialist Republic of 
Viet Nam: 
 
 
 
 