  (c)  report the findings of the Sub-Committee to the 
Joint Committee; and 
 
  (d)  carry out other functions as may be delegated by 
the Joint Committee pursuant to Article 11. 
 
3.  The Sub-Committee shall be composed of representatives 
of the Governments of the Parties, and may invite 
representatives of relevant entities other than the 
Governments of the Parties with necessary expertise 
relevant to the issues to be discussed, upon agreement of 
all the Parties. 
 
4.  The Sub-Committee shall meet at such venues and times 
as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
Chapter 4 
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
Article 38 
Scope 
 
  This Chapter shall apply to all sanitary and 
phytosanitary (hereinafter referred to as “SPS”) measures 
of the Parties as defined in Annex A of the Agreement on 
the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures in 
Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as 
“SPS Agreement”) that may, directly or indirectly, affect 
trade between the Parties. 
 
Article 39 
Reaffirmation of Rights and Obligations 
 
  The Parties reaffirm the rights and obligations 
relating to SPS measures under the SPS Agreement among 
those Parties that are parties to the said Agreement.  
 
Article 40 
Sub-Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
 
1.  For the purposes of the effective implementation and 
operation of this Chapter, a Sub-Committee on Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Measures (hereinafter referred to in this 
Article as “the Sub-Committee”) shall be established 
pursuant to Article 11. 
 
2.  The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to:  
  
  (a)  exchange information on such matters as 
occurrences of SPS incidents in the Parties and 
non-Parties, and change or introduction of SPS-
related regulations and standards of the Parties, 
which may, directly or indirectly, affect trade 
between Japan and more than one (1) ASEAN Member 
State which are the Parties; 
 
  (b)  facilitate cooperation in the area of SPS 
measures, including capacity building, technical 
assistance and exchange of experts, subject to 
the availability of appropriated funds and the 
applicable laws and regulations of each Party; 
 
  (c)  undertake science-based consultations to identify 
and address specific issues that may arise from 
the application of SPS measures and are shared by 
Japan and more than one (1) ASEAN Member State 
which are the Parties; 
 
  (d)  review the implementation and operation of this 
Chapter; and 
 
  (e)  report, where appropriate, its findings to the 
Joint Committee. 
 
3.  The Parties shall coordinate their undertakings with 
the activities conducted in the bilateral, regional and 
multilateral context, with the objective of avoiding 
unnecessary duplication and maximising efficiency of 
efforts of the Parties in this field. 
 
4.  The Sub-Committee shall meet at such venues and times 
as may be agreed by the Parties. 
 
5.  The Sub-Committee shall be: 
 
  (a)  composed of government officials of the Parties 
with responsibility for SPS measures; and 
 
  (b)  co-chaired by an official of the Government of 
Japan and an official of one of the Governments 
of the ASEAN Member States which are the Parties. 
 
Article 41 
Enquiry Points 
 
  Each Party shall designate an enquiry point to answer 
all reasonable enquiries from another Party regarding SPS 
measures and, if appropriate, provide the latter with 
relevant information. 
 
 Article 42 
Non-application of Chapter 9 
 
  The dispute settlement procedures provided for in 
Chapter 9 shall not apply to this Chapter. 
 
CHAPTER 5 
Standards, Technical Regulations and 
Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
Article 43 
Objectives 
 
  The objectives of this Chapter are to promote trade 
among the Parties by: 
 
  (a)  ensuring that standards, technical regulations 
and conformity assessment procedures do not 
create unnecessary obstacles to trade; 
 
  (b)  promoting mutual understanding of the standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures in each Party; 
 
  (c)  strengthening information exchange and 
cooperation among the Parties in relation to the 
preparation, adoption and application of 
standards, technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures; 
 
  (d)  strengthening cooperation among the Parties in 
the work of international bodies related to 
standardisation and conformity assessments; and  
 
  (e)  providing a framework to realise these 
objectives. 
 
Article 44 
Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to standards, technical 
regulations and conformity assessment procedures as defined 
in the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade in Annex 1A 
to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “TBT 
Agreement”). 
 
2.  This Chapter shall not apply to purchasing 
specifications prepared by governmental bodies for 
production or consumption requirements of governmental 
bodies and sanitary and phytosanitary measures as defined 
in Annex A of the SPS Agreement. 
 
 