CHAPTER 2 
 
 
TRADE IN GOODS  
 
 
Article 1 
 
Scope 
 
Except as otherwise provided, this Chapter shall apply 
to trade in all goods among the Parties. 
 
Article 2 
 
Reduction and/or Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each 
Party  shall  progressively  reduce  and/or  eliminate 
customs  duties  on  originating  goods  of  the  other 
Parties  in  accordance  with  its  schedule  of  tariff 
commitments  in  Annex  2-1  (Schedules  of  Tariff 
Commitments). 
 
Article 3 
 
Standstill 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no 
Party shall increase customs duty on an originating 
good of any other Party in a manner inconsistent with 
its  schedule  of  tariff  commitments  in  Annex  2-1 
(Schedules of Tariff Commitments). 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 Article 4 
 
Acceleration of Commitments 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Parties 
from negotiating and entering into  arrangements to 
accelerate the implementation of commitments made 
under  this  Agreement,  provided  that  such 
arrangements are mutually agreed and implemented 
by all the Parties. 
 
Article 5 
 
National Treatment on Internal Taxation and 
Regulation 
 
Each  Party  shall  accord  national  treatment  to  the 
goods of the other Parties in accordance with Article III 
of GATT 1994.  To this end, Article III of GATT 1994 is 
incorporated into and shall form part of this Agreement, 
mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 6 
 
Fees and Charges Connected with Importation 
and Exportation 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that fees and charges 
connected with importation and exportation shall be 
consistent with its rights and obligations under Article 
VIII of GATT 1994. 
 
2.  Each Party shall make available details of the 
fees and charges that it imposes in connection with 
importation and exportation and, to the extent possible 
and in accordance  with its internal law, make such 
information available on the internet. 
 
10 
 3.  Each  Party  shall  not  require  legalisation  or 
authentication  of  customs  documentation,  including 
related  fees  and  charges,  in  connection  with  the 
importation of any good of any other Party 
 
Article 7 
 
Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a 
Party  from  taking  any  measure  for  balance-of-
payments purposes in accordance with Article XII of 
GATT 1994 and the Understanding on the Balance-of-
Payments  Provisions  of  the  General  Agreement  on 
Tariffs  and  Trade  1994  in  Annex  1A  to  the  WTO 
Agreement. 
 
Article 8 
 
Publication and Administration of Trade 
Regulations 
 
1.  Article X of GATT 1994 is incorporated into and 
shall form part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  In accordance with its internal  law and to the 
extent  possible,  each  Party  shall  make  its  laws, 
regulations, decisions and rulings of the kind referred 
to in paragraph 1 available on the internet. 
 
Article 9 
 
Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Measures 
 
1.  No Party shall adopt or maintain any prohibition 
or  quantitative  restriction  on  the  importation  of  any 
good of any other Party or on the exportation of any 
good destined for the Area of any other Party, except 
11 
 in accordance with its WTO rights and obligations or in 
accordance with this Agreement.  To this end, Article 
XI of GATT 1994 is incorporated into and shall form 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, 
a  Party  shall  not  adopt  or  maintain  any  non-tariff 
measure on the importation of any good of any other 
Party or on the exportation of any good destined for the 
Area of any other Party except in accordance with its 
WTO rights and obligations. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure transparency of its non-
tariff measures permitted under paragraph 2 and that 
any  such  measures  are  not  prepared,  adopted  or 
applied with a view to, or with the effect of, creating 
unnecessary obstacles to trade among the Parties. 
 
Article 10 
 
Import Licensing 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that all automatic and 
non-automatic  import  licensing  measures  are 
implemented in a transparent and predictable manner, 
and  applied  in  accordance  with  the  Agreement  on 
Import Licensing Procedures in Annex 1A to the WTO 
Agreement. 
 
2.   Upon  request  of  another  Party,  a  Party  shall, 
promptly and to the extent possible, respond to the 
request of that Party for information on import licensing 
requirements of general application. 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 Article 11 
 
Modification of Concessions 
 
1.   Each Party shall not nullify or impair any of its 
concessions  under  this  Agreement,  except  as 
otherwise provided in this Agreement. 
 
2.  In  exceptional  circumstances  where  a  Party 
faces unforeseen difficulties in implementing its tariff 
commitments,  that  Party  may,  by  negotiation  and 
agreement  with  any  Party  to  which  it  has  made  a 
concession under this Agreement, modify or withdraw 
its  concession  contained  in  its  schedule  of  tariff 
commitments  in  Annex  2-1  (Schedules  of  Tariff 
Commitments).  In such negotiations and agreement, 
which  may  include  compensatory  adjustment  with 
respect to other goods, the Parties concerned shall 
maintain  a  general  level  of  reciprocal  and  mutually 
advantageous concessions not less favourable to the 
trade than that provided for in this Agreement prior to 
such negotiations. 
 
Article 12 
 
Contact Points and Consultations 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  to 
facilitate  communication  among  the  Parties  on  any 
matter relating to this Chapter.  A Party shall notify 
the other Parties promptly of any amendment to the 
details of its contact point. 
 
2.  Where a Party considers that any proposed or 
actual  measure  of  another  Party  or  Parties  may 
materially affect trade in goods among the Parties, that 
Party may, through the contact points, request detailed 
information relating to that measure and, if necessary, 
13 
 request  consultations  with  a  view  to  resolving  any 
concern about the measure.  The requested Party or 
Parties shall respond promptly to such requests for 
information and consultations. 
 
3.  Any action taken pursuant to paragraph 2 shall 
be without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the 
Parties under Chapter 13 (Consultations and Dispute 
Settlement)  or  under  the  WTO  Dispute  Settlement 
Understanding. 
 
   
14 
 