ANNEX 2-1 
 
 
SCHEDULES OF TARIFF COMMITMENTS 
 
 
Part 1 
 
General Notes 
 
1.  This Annex is based on the Harmonized System, 
as amended on 1 January 2012. 
 
2.  The  base  rate  for  tariff  reduction  and/or 
elimination shall be the most-favoured-nation (MFN) 
applied rate in effect on 1 January 2014, except that for 
Indonesia, the base rate shall be the MFN applied rate 
in effect on 1 January 2016.  
 
3.  The tariff lines subject to tariff reduction and/or 
elimination  under  this  Annex  shall  be  categorised 
according to the following modality: 
 
15 
 4.  For the purposes of this Annex, the term “the date 
of entry into force of this Agreement” means the date 
of  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement  pursuant  to 
paragraph  1  or  paragraph  2  of  Article  4  (Entry  into 
Force) of Chapter 14 (Final Provisions), whichever is 
applicable. 
 
5.   For a Party for which this Agreement enters into 
force at a later date pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 
4 (Entry into Force) of Chapter 14 (Final Provisions), 
the initial reduction or elimination of customs duties 
shall  be  implemented  at  the  level  specified  in  that 
Party’s schedule of tariff commitment for the year in 
which the Agreement enters into force for that Party.   
 
6.  In the case of ad valorem tariffs, the tariff rates 
that result from the tariff reduction schedule should be 
expressed in whole number. Any fraction less than 0.5 
of a percentage point shall be rounded down, and any 
fraction equal to or greater than 0.5 of a percentage 
point shall be rounded up.  In the case of specific tariffs, 
any fraction smaller than 0.01 of the official monetary 
unit of a Party shall be rounded to the nearest two 
decimal places (any fraction equal to or greater than 
0.005 shall be rounded to 0.01). 
 
Modality for Products in the Normal Track 
 
7.  The  Parties  shall  classify  the  tariff  lines  they 
commit under the Normal Track into Normal Track 1 
and Normal Track 2, and shall reduce and eliminate the 
applied MFN tariff rates on such tariff lines according 
to the following modality: 
 
(a)  Normal Track 1: Unless otherwise provided in 
subparagraph  8  (b),  the  applied  MFN  tariff 
rates shall be reduced in equal proportions to 
0% within three years for ASEAN 6 and within 
16 
 eight  years  for  Cambodia,  Lao  PDR,  and 
Myanmar. 
 
(i)  The first reduction shall take place on the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement; 
and 
 
(ii)  The  subsequent  reductions  shall  take 
place  on  1  January  of  each  following 
year. 
 
(b)  Normal Track 2:  Unless otherwise provided in 
subparagraph  8  (b),  the  applied  MFN  tariff 
rates shall be reduced every two years in equal 
proportions to 0% within 10 years for ASEAN 6 
and within 15 years for Cambodia, Lao PDR, 
and Myanmar. 
 
(i)  The first reduction shall take place on the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement; 
and 
 
(ii)  The  subsequent  reductions  shall  take 
place on 1 January of every two years 
after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement. 
 
8.  For the purposes of implementing tariff reduction 
under  Normal  Track  1  and  Normal  Track  2,  the 
following shall apply: 
 
(a)  Tariff rates above 5% shall be reduced in equal 
proportions; and 
 
(b)  Tariff rates less than or equal to 5% shall be 
reduced to 0% at the latest by the end of the 
tariff reduction period. 
 
17 
 Modality for Products in the Sensitive Track 
 
9.  Sensitive  List:  The  Parties  shall  reduce  and, 
where applicable, eliminate the applied MFN tariff rates 
of tariff lines placed in the Sensitive List according to 
the following modality:  
 
(a)  ASEAN 6 shall reduce the applied MFN tariff 
rates of tariff lines placed in their respective 
Sensitive Lists to 0-5% within 12 years of the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement:  The 
reduction of these tariff rates shall commence 
from  1  January  of  the  sixth  year;  and 
subsequently, the tariff rates shall be reduced 
to 0-5% at the latest by the twelfth year, unless 
specified in the respective Parties’ schedules 
as agreed with Hong Kong, China. 
 
(b)  Cambodia,  Lao  PDR,  and  Myanmar  shall 
reduce  the  applied  MFN  tariff  rates  of  tariff 
lines placed in their respective Sensitive Lists 
to 0-5% within 17 years of the date of entry into 
force  of  this  Agreement:    The  reduction  of 
these  tariff  rates  shall  commence  from  1 
January of the ninth year; and subsequently, 
the tariff rates shall be reduced to 0-5% at the 
latest  by  the  seventeenth  year,  unless 
specified in the respective Parties’ schedules 
as agreed with Hong Kong, China. 
 
10.  Highly Sensitive List: The Parties shall reduce 
and, where applicable, eliminate the applied MFN tariff 
rates of tariff lines placed in the Highly Sensitive List 
according to the following modality:  
 
(a)  ASEAN 6 shall reduce the applied MFN tariff 
rates of tariff lines placed in their respective 
Highly Sensitive Lists to not more than 50% 
18 
 within 14 years of the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement. 
 
(b)  Cambodia,  Lao  PDR,  and  Myanmar  shall 
reduce  the  applied  MFN  tariff  rates  of  tariff 
lines placed in their respective Highly Sensitive 
Lists to not more than 50% within 20 years of 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
(c)  The reduction shall not apply for tariff rates that 
are equal or less than 50% on the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement. 
 
11.  Notwithstanding the above: 
 
(a)  Hong  Kong,  China  shall  eliminate  customs 
duties on originating goods of the other Parties 
covering  all  goods  classified  under  HS 
Chapters 1 to 97, with effect from the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  Singapore shall eliminate customs duties on all 
originating  goods of the other  Parties  under 
this Agreement, with effect from the date on 
which  this  Agreement  enters  into  force  for 
Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
19 
 Part 2: Schedule of Brunei Darussalam  
 
Part 3: Schedule of Cambodia   
 
Part 4: Schedule of Indonesia  
 
Part 5: Schedule of Lao PDR  
 
Part 6: Schedule of Malaysia 
 
Part 7: Schedule of Myanmar 
 
Part 8: Schedule of the Philippines 
 
Part 9: Schedule of Singapore 
 
Part 10: Schedule of Thailand 
 
Part 11: Schedule of Viet Nam 
 
Part 12: Schedule of Hong Kong, China 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 