ANNEX 3-1  
 
 
OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES 
 
 
For the purposes of implementing Chapter 3 (Rules of 
Origin),  the  following  operational  certification 
procedures  and  other  related  administrative  matters 
shall apply: 
 
Rule 1 Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
 
 
 
issued  by  the  issuing  authority  of  an 
intermediate Party based on the Certificate of 
Origin (Form AHK) issued by the first exporting 
Party;    
 
(b)  exporter means a natural or juridical person 
located in the Area of a Party where a good is 
exported from by such a person;   
 
(c)   competent authority means the government 
authority or other entity authorised under the 
internal laws and regulations of a Party;  
 
(d)   importer means a natural or juridical person 
located in the Area of a Party where a good is 
imported into by such a person; 
 
(e)   issuing  authority  means  the  government 
authority  or  authority  designated  by  the 
government of the exporting Party to issue a 
40 
 Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) or MC and 
notified to all other Parties in accordance with 
this Annex; and 
 
(f)   producer means a natural or juridical person 
who  carries  out  production  in the  Area  of  a 
Party. 
 
Rule 2 
 
Specimen Signatures and Official Seals of the 
Issuing Authorities 
 
1.  Each Party shall inform all other Parties of the 
names  and  addresses  of  its  respective  issuing 
authorities  and  shall  provide  specimen  signatures, 
specimen of official seals and specimen of correction 
stamps, if any, used by its issuing authorities. 
 
2.  The information in paragraph 1 of a Party shall 
be  provided  by  its  contact  point  electronically  to  all 
other Parties through the ASEAN Secretariat and, to 
the extent possible, one month before they take effect.  
A Party shall promptly inform all other Parties of any 
change in names, addresses, or official seals in the 
same manner. 
 
3.   All  Parties  shall  promptly  provide  confirmation 
that they have received the information to the ASEAN 
Secretariat,  which  will  forward  the  compiled 
confirmation to the Party providing the information.   
 
   
41 
 Rule 3 
 
Supporting Documents 
 
For the purposes of determining originating status, the 
competent authorities shall have the right to request for 
supporting  documentary  evidence  or  to  carry  out 
checks considered appropriate in accordance with the 
internal laws and regulations of a Party.  
   
Rule 4 
 
Pre-exportation Verification 
 
The producer or exporter of the good, or its authorised 
representative,  subject  to  the  internal  laws  and 
regulations  of  a  Party,  shall  apply  to  the  issuing 
authority  of  the  Party  requesting  pre-exportation 
examination of the origin of the good.  The result of pre-
exportation examination of a Party, subject to review 
periodically  or  whenever  appropriate,  shall  be 
accepted as the supporting evidence in determining 
the origin of the said good to be exported thereafter.  
The pre-exportation examination may not apply to the 
good  of  which,  by  its  nature,  origin  can  be  easily 
determined. 
 
Rule 5 
 
Application for Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
 
At the time of carrying out the formalities for exporting 
the  good  under  preferential  tariff  treatment,  the 
exporter or its authorised representative shall submit a 
written  application  or  an  application  by  electronic 
means for the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK), and in 
accordance with the internal laws and regulations of 
the exporting Party, appropriate supporting documents 
42 
 proving that the good to be exported qualifies for the 
issuance of a Certificate of Origin (Form AHK). 
 
Rule 6 
 
Examination of Application for Certificate of 
Origin (Form AHK) 
 
The issuing authority of a Party shall, to the best of its 
competence and ability, carry out proper examination 
in accordance with its internal laws and regulations on 
each application for a Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
to ensure that: 
 
(a)   the origin of the good is in conformity with the 
provisions of this Chapter; 
 
(b)   the  other  details  in  the  Certificate  of  Origin 
(Form  AHK)  correspond  to  the  supporting 
documentary evidence submitted; 
 
(c)   the  description,  quantity  and  weight  of  the 
good, marks and number of packages, number 
and kinds of packages, as specified, conform 
to the good to be exported; and 
 
(d)   the  application  and  the  Certificate  of  Origin 
(Form AHK) are duly completed and signed 
either  manually  or  electronically  by  the 
authorised signatory.  
 
Rule 7 
 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
 
1.  The  format  of  the  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form 
AHK) is to be determined by the Parties and it shall 
43 
 contain the data requirements listed in the Appendix 
(List of Data Requirements).  
 
2.  The  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  AHK)  shall 
comprise one original and two copies. 
 
3.  The Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) shall: 
 
(a)  be in hardcopy; 
 
(b)  bear a unique reference number separately 
given by each place or office of issuance; 
 
(c)  be in the English language; and 
 
(d)  bear  an  authorised  signature  and  official 
seal  of  the  issuing  authority  and  the 
signature and official seal may be applied 
electronically.  
 
4.  The  FOB  value  of  goods,  when  the  Regional 
Value Content origin criterion is applied, needs to be 
indicated on the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) for 
goods  that  are  exported  from  one  ASEAN  Member 
State to another ASEAN Member State, and from Hong 
Kong, China to ASEAN Member States, but need not 
be indicated if the goods are exported from ASEAN 
Member States to Hong Kong, China.  
 
5.  The  original  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  AHK) 
shall be forwarded by the exporter to the importer for 
submission to the customs authority of the importing 
Party.  Copies shall be retained by the issuing authority 
and the exporter. 
 
6.  Multiple goods declared on the same Certificate 
of Origin (Form AHK) shall be allowed, provided that 
each good is originating in its own right.  
44 
  
Rule 8 
 
Treatment of Erroneous Declaration in the 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
 
Neither erasures nor superimpositions shall be allowed 
on the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK).  Any alteration 
shall be made by: 
 
(a)  striking  out  the  erroneous  materials  and 
making  any  addition  required;  such 
alteration shall be approved by an official 
authorised to sign the Certificate of Origin 
(Form  AHK)  and  certified  by  the  issuing 
authority; and any unused spaces shall be 
crossed  out  to  prevent  any  subsequent 
addition; or 
 
(b)  issuing a new Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK) to replace the erroneous one. 
 
Rule 9 
 
Issuance of the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
 
1.  Subject  to  the  submission  of  all  documentary 
requirements, in accordance with the internal laws and 
regulations  of  the exporting  Party,  the  Certificate  of 
Origin  (Form  AHK)  shall  be  issued  by  the  issuing 
authority of the exporting Party prior to shipment or at 
the time of shipment but shall not be issued more than 
three working days after the declared shipment date 
whenever the good to be exported is considered to be 
originating in that Party within the meaning set out in 
this Chapter.  
 
45 
 2.  In exceptional case where a Certificate of Origin 
(Form AHK) has not been issued in accordance with 
paragraph 1 due to involuntary errors or omissions or 
other valid causes, the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
may be issued retroactively but no longer than one year 
from the date of shipment and shall be duly marked 
“Issued Retroactively”. 
 
Rule 10 
 
Movement Confirmation 
 
An issuing authority of an intermediate exporting Party 
shall issue an MC, if an application is made by the 
exporter  while  the  good  is  passing  through  that 
intermediate exporting Party, provided that: 
 
(a)  a valid original Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
or its certified true copy is presented; 
 
(b)  the  period  of  validity  of  the  MC  does  not 
exceed  the  period  of  validity  of  the  original 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK); 
 
(c)  the goods which are to be re-exported using 
the MC shall remain under the supervision of 
the  competent  authority6 of  the  intermediate 
exporting Party in accordance with its internal 
laws and regulations and the goods shall not 
undergo  any  further  processing  in  the 
intermediate  exporting  Party,  except  for 
repacking  or  logistics  activities  such  as 
unloading,  reloading,  storing,  or  any  other 
operations necessary to preserve them in good 
condition or to transport them to the importing 
                                                           
6 The supervision of the competent authority of the intermediate exporting Party 
includes documentary controls or any risk management procedures as deemed 
necessary by that competent authority. 
46 
 Party; 
 
(d)  the MC contains relevant information from the 
original  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  AHK) 
pursuant to the data requirements listed in the 
Appendix (List of Data Requirements) and the 
FOB value shall be the FOB value of the goods 
exported  from  the  intermediate  exporting 
Party;  
 
(e)  in the event that the information is not complete 
or  circumvention  is  suspected,  the  final 
importing  Party  may  request  the  original 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) be submitted 
to its respective competent authority; and 
 
(f)  the  verification  procedures  in  Rule  17 
(Retroactive Check) and Rule 18 (Verification 
Visit) shall also apply to the MC. 
 
Rule 11 
 
Loss of the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
 
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate 
of Origin (Form AHK), the exporter may apply in writing 
to the issuing authority for a certified true copy of the 
original Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) or its copies. 
The certified true copy shall be made on the basis of 
the export documents in their possession and bear the 
words  “CERTIFIED  TRUE  COPY”.    This  copy  shall 
bear the date of issuance of the original Certificate of 
Origin  (Form  AHK).    The  certified  true  copy  of  a 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) shall be issued no 
longer than one year from the date of issuance of the 
original Certificate of Origin (Form AHK). 
 
   
47 
 Rule 12 
 
Presentation of the Certificate of Origin 
(Form AHK) 
 
1.  For  the  purposes  of  claiming  preferential  tariff 
treatment,  the  importer  shall  submit  to  the  customs 
authority of the importing Party at the time of import, a 
declaration,  a  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  AHK) 
including  supporting  documents  (i.e.  invoices  and, 
when  required,  Bill  of  Lading  or  other  related 
transportation documents) issued in the Area of the 
exporting Party and other documents as required in 
accordance with the internal laws and regulations of 
the importing Party. 
 
2.  In the case where a Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK)  is  rejected  by  the  customs  authority  of  the 
importing Party, the subject Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK)  shall  be  marked  accordingly  and  the  original 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) shall be returned to 
the issuing authority within a reasonable period but not 
exceeding 60 days from the date of rejection.  The 
issuing authority shall be duly notified of the grounds 
for the denial of preferential tariff treatment.  
 
3.  In the case where a Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK)  is  rejected,  as  stated  in  paragraph  2,  the 
importing  Party  shall  accept  and  consider  the 
clarification made by the issuing authority and assess 
again whether or not the Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK)  can  be  accepted  for  the  granting  of  the 
preferential tariff treatment.  The clarifications shall be 
detailed and exhaustive in addressing the grounds of 
denial  of  preferential  tariff  treatment  raised  by  the 
importing Party.  If a clarification made by the issuing 
authority  addresses  the  grounds  for  denial  of 
preferential  tariff  treatment  and  satisfies  the 
48 
 requirements of this Chapter, the importing Party shall 
accept the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) and grant 
preferential  tariff  treatment  in  accordance  with  its 
internal laws and regulations.   
 
Rule 13 
 
Validity Period of the Certificate of Origin  
(Form AHK) 
 
1.  The following time limit for the presentation of the 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) shall be observed: 
 
(a)   the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) shall be 
valid for a period of one year from the date of 
issuance  and  shall  be  submitted  to  the 
customs  authority  of  the  importing  Party 
within that period; and 
 
(b)   where the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) is 
submitted  to  the  customs  authority  of  the 
importing Party after the expiration of the time 
limit  for  its  submission,  such  Certificate  of 
Origin  (Form  AHK)  shall  still  be  accepted 
where failure to observe the time limit for its 
submission  results  from  force  majeure  or 
other valid causes beyond the control of the 
importer or the exporter.  
 
2.  In all cases, the customs authority of the importing 
Party may accept such Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
provided that the goods have been imported before the 
expiration  of  the  time  limit  of the said  Certificate  of 
Origin (Form AHK). 
 
   
49 
 Rule 14 
 
Waiver of Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
 
1.   In the case of a consignment of goods originating 
in the exporting Party and not exceeding US$ 200.00 
FOB, the presentation of Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK)  shall  be  waived  and  the  use  of  simplified 
declaration by the exporter that the goods in question 
have  originated  in  the  exporting  Party  shall  be 
accepted.  Goods sent through the post not exceeding 
US$ 200.00 FOB shall also be similarly treated. 
 
2.   Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of 
paragraph 1,  a  Party  may  elect  not  to  require 
submission of a Certificate of Origin (Form AHK).  
 
Rule 15 
 
Treatment of Minor Discrepancies 
 
1.  Where the origin of the goods is not in doubt, the 
discovery  of  minor  discrepancies,  such  as 
typographical  errors  in  the  statements  made  in  the 
Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  AHK)  or  made  in  other 
documents submitted to the customs authority of the 
importing  Party  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  the 
formalities for importing the goods, shall not ipso facto 
invalidate the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK), if it does 
in fact correspond to the goods submitted. 
 
2.  In the case where the exporting Party and the 
importing Party have different tariff classifications for a 
good subject to preferential tariff treatment, the goods 
shall be released at the most-favoured-nation rates or 
at  the  AHKFTA  preferential  rate,  subject  to  the 
compliance of the applicable rules of origin, and no 
penalty  or  other  charges  shall  be  imposed  in 
50 
 accordance with the internal laws and regulations of 
the importing Party.  Once the classification differences 
have been resolved, the correct rate shall be applied 
and any overpaid duty shall be refunded if applicable, 
in accordance with the internal laws and regulations of 
the importing Party, as soon as the issues have been 
resolved. 
 
3.  For  multiple  items  declared  under  the  same 
Certificate  of  Origin  (Form  AHK),  a  problem 
encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect 
or delay the granting of preferential tariff treatment and 
customs clearance of the remaining items listed in the 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK).  Subparagraph (c) of 
Rule 17 (Retroactive Check) may be applied to the 
problematic items. 
 
Rule 16 
 
Record Keeping Requirement 
 
1.  For  the  purposes  of  the  verification  process 
pursuant to Rule 17 (Retroactive Check) and Rule 18 
(Verification  Visit),  the  producer  and/or  exporter 
applying  for  the  issuance  of  a  Certificate  of  Origin 
(Form  AHK)  shall,  subject  to  the  internal  laws  and 
regulations of the exporting Party, keep its supporting 
records for application for not less than three years 
from the date of issuance of the Certificate of Origin 
(Form AHK). 
 
2.  The  application  for  Certificate  of  Origin  (Form 
AHK) and all documents related to such application 
shall be retained by the issuing authorities for not less 
than three years from the date of issuance. 
 
3.  Information  relating  to  the  validity  of  the 
Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) shall be furnished by 
51 
 the  issuing  authority  of  the  exporting  Party  upon 
request of the importing Party.  
 
4.  Any  information  communicated  between  the 
Parties concerned shall be treated as confidential and 
shall be used for purpose of the validation of Certificate 
of Origin (Form AHK) only. 
 
Rule 17 
 
Retroactive Check 
 
The competent authority of the importing Party may 
request the competent authority of the exporting Party 
to conduct a retroactive check at random or when it has 
reasonable  doubt  as  to  the  authenticity  of  the 
document  or  as  to  the  accuracy  of  the  information 
regarding the true origin of the goods in question or of 
certain  parts  thereof.    Upon  such  request,  the 
competent  authority  of  the  exporting  Party  shall 
conduct a retroactive check on the exporter or producer, 
subject to the following conditions: 
 
(a)  the  request  for  retroactive  check  shall  be 
accompanied  with  the  Certificate  of  Origin 
(Form AHK) concerned and shall specify the 
reasons  and  any  additional  information 
suggesting  that  the  particulars  given  on  the 
said Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) may be 
inaccurate,  unless  the  retroactive  check  is 
requested on a random basis; 
 
(b)  the competent authority of the exporting Party 
receiving a request for retroactive check shall 
respond to the request promptly and transmit 
the  results  of  the  retroactive  check  to  the 
importing Party within 90 days upon the receipt 
of the request; 
52 
  
(c)  the competent authority of the importing Party 
may  suspend  the  provisions  on  preferential 
tariff treatment to a good that is the subject of 
a  retroactive  check  for  the  duration  of  that 
action  or  any  part  thereof.  However,  in 
accordance  with  the  internal  laws  and 
regulations  of  the  importing  Party,  the 
competent authority of the importing Party may 
release the good to the importer subject to any 
administrative measures deemed necessary, 
provided  that  it  is  not  held  to  be  subject  to 
import prohibition or restriction and there is no 
suspicion  of  fraud.    In  the  event  that  a 
determination is made by the importing Party 
that the good qualifies as an originating good 
of  the  exporting  Party,  any  suspended 
preferential tariff treatment shall be reinstated; 
and 
 
(d)  the competent authority of the importing Party, 
after receipt of the results of the retroactive 
check  from  the  competent  authority  of  the 
exporting Party, shall determine whether or not 
the subject good is an originating good. The 
entire process of retroactive check including 
the  process  of  notifying  the  competent 
authority of the exporting Party the result of the 
determination of whether or not the good is an 
originating good shall be completed within 180 
days upon the receipt of the request by the 
competent authority of the exporting Party.  
 
   
53 
 Rule 18 
 
Verification Visit 
 
If the competent authority of the importing Party is not 
satisfied with the outcome of the retroactive check, it 
may, under exceptional cases, request for verification 
visit to the premises of the exporter or producer through 
the  competent  authority  of  the  exporting  Party  in 
accordance with the following conditions: 
 
(a)  Prior  to  conducting  a  verification  visit,  the 
competent  authority  of  the  importing  Party 
shall: 
 
(i)  deliver a written request to conduct the 
proposed verification visit to: 
 
(1)  the  exporter  or  producer  whose 
premises are to be visited; and 
 
(2)  the  competent  authority  of  the 
exporting Party;  
 
(ii)   deliver a written notification to conduct 
the  proposed  verification  visit  to  the 
importer of the goods that are subject to 
the verification visit;  
 
(iii)   the  written  request  mentioned  in 
subparagraph  (a)  (i)  shall  be  as 
comprehensive  as  possible  and 
includes:  
 
(1)  the  name  and  contact  details  of 
the  competent  authority  issuing 
the request; 
 
54 
 (2)  the  name  of  the  exporter  or 
producer whose premises are to 
be visited; 
 
(3)  the  proposed  date  for  the 
verification visit; 
 
(4)  the  objective  and  scope  of  the 
proposed  verification  visit, 
including specific reference to the 
goods  that  are  subject  to  the 
verification; and 
 
(5)  the names and designation or title 
of  the  officials  of  the  importing 
Party  performing  the  verification 
visit; 
 
(iv)   obtain  the  written  consent  of  the 
exporter  or  producer  whose  premises 
are to be visited; 
 
(b)  Where a written consent from the exporter or 
producer is not obtained within 30 days upon 
receipt  of  the  written  request  pursuant  to 
subparagraph (a) (i), the competent authority 
of the importing Party may deny preferential 
tariff treatment to the goods that would have 
been the subject of the verification visit; 
 
(c)  The  competent  authority  of  the  exporting 
Party  receiving  the  written  request  may 
postpone the proposed verification visit and 
notify the competent authority of the importing 
Party of such intention.  Notwithstanding any 
postponement, any verification visit shall be 
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  internal 
laws and regulations of the exporting Party 
55 
 within 60 days upon the date of receipt of the 
request,  or  for  a  longer  period  as  the 
concerned  Parties  may  agree.    The 
arrangement of the verification visit shall be 
agreed by the competent authorities of the 
importing and exporting Parties; 
 
(d)  The  competent  authority  of  the  importing 
Party  conducting  the  verification  visit  shall 
provide  the  exporter  or  producer  whose 
goods are the subject of the verification visit, 
and the competent authority of the exporting 
Party, with a written determination of whether 
or  not  the  subject  goods  qualified  as 
originating goods; 
 
(e)  Any  suspended  preferential  tariff  treatment 
shall  be  reinstated  upon  the  written 
determination referred to in subparagraph (d) 
that the goods qualify as originating goods; 
 
(f)  The exporter or producer shall be allowed 30 
days,  upon  receipt  of  the  written 
determination, to provide in writing additional 
information  regarding  the  eligibility  of  the 
goods  to  the  competent  authority  of  the 
importing Party.  If the goods are still found to 
be  non-originating,  the  final  written 
determination shall be communicated by the 
competent authority of the importing Party to 
the competent authority of the exporting Party 
within  30  days  upon  receipt  of  additional 
information  from  the  exporter  or  producer; 
and 
 
(g)  The  verification  visit  process,  including  the 
actual visit and determination of whether the 
subject goods are originating or not, shall be 
56 
 carried out and its results communicated to 
the competent authority of the exporting Party 
within 180 days upon receipt of the written 
request  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (a)  (i).  
While awaiting the results of the verification 
visit,  subparagraph  (c)  of  Rule  17 
(Retroactive  Check)  on  the  suspension  of 
preferential tariff treatment shall be applied.
   
Rule 19 
 
Confidentiality 
 
The Parties shall maintain, in accordance with their 
internal  laws  and  regulations,  the  confidentiality  of 
classified business information collected in the process 
pursuant to Rule 17 (Retroactive Check) and Rule 18 
(Verification Visit) and shall protect such information 
from  disclosure  that could  prejudice the competitive 
position of the person who provided the information.  
The  information  and  documents  collected  in  such 
process shall not be used for other purposes, including 
being used as evidence in administrative and judicial 
proceedings, without the explicit written permission of 
the Party providing such information. 
 
Rule 20 
 
Documentation for Implementing 
Subparagraph 2 (b) of Article 9  
(Direct Consignment) of this Chapter  
 
For the purposes of implementing subparagraph 2 (b) 
of Article 9 (Direct Consignment) of this Chapter, where 
transportation is effected through the area of one or 
more non-Parties, the following shall be produced to 
the competent authority of the importing Party: 
 
57 
 (a)  the  Bill  of  Lading  or  other  related 
transportation  documents  issued  in  the 
exporting Party; 
 
(b)  a Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) issued by 
the relevant issuing authority of the exporting 
Party, unless not required pursuant to Rule 14 
(Waiver of Certificate of Origin (Form AHK));  
 
(c)  a copy of the original commercial invoice in 
respect of the goods; and 
 
(d)  supporting  documents  evidencing  that  the 
requirements of subparagraphs 2(b) (i) to (iii) 
of  Article  9  (Direct  Consignment)  of  this 
Chapter have been complied with.  
 
Rule 21 
 
Exhibition Goods 
 
1.   Goods sent from an exporting Party for exhibition 
in another Party and sold during or after the exhibition 
for importation into a Party shall be granted preferential 
tariff treatment accorded under this Agreement on the 
condition that the goods meet the requirements as set 
out in this Chapter, and provided that it is shown to the 
satisfaction  of the relevant  customs authority  of the 
importing Party that: 
 
(a)  an exporter has dispatched those goods from 
the Area of the exporting Party to the Party 
where the exhibition is held and has exhibited 
them there; 
 
(b)  the exporter has sold the goods or transferred 
them to a consignee in the importing Party; and  
 
58 
 (c)  the  goods  have  been  consigned  during  the 
exhibition  or  immediately  thereafter  to  the 
importing Party in the state in which they were 
sent for the exhibition. 
 
2.  For the purposes of paragraph 1, the Certificate 
of Origin (Form AHK) shall be provided to the customs 
authority  of  the  importing  Party.    The  name  and 
address  of  the  exhibition  shall  be  indicated.    The 
relevant  customs  authority  of  the  Party  where  the 
exhibition took place may provide evidence together 
with supporting documents prescribed in subparagraph 
(d)  of  Rule  20  (Documentation  for  Implementing 
Subparagraph 2 (b) of Article 9 (Direct Consignment) 
of this Chapter) for the identification of the goods and 
the conditions under which they were exhibited. 
 
3.  Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, agricultural 
or crafts exhibition, fair or similar show or display in 
shops or business premises with a view to sale and 
where the goods remain under customs control during 
the exhibition. 
 
Rule 22 
 
Third Party Invoicing 
 
1.    The competent authority of the importing Party 
shall accept Certificates of Origin (Form AHK) in the 
case  where  the  sales  invoice  is  issued  either  by  a 
company located in a third party or by an exporter for 
the account of the said company, provided that the 
goods meet the requirements of this Chapter.  
 
2.  The exporter shall indicate “Third party invoicing” 
and such information as name and country/party of the 
company issuing the invoice in the Certificate of Origin 
(Form AHK).  
59 
  
Rule 23 
 
Action against Fraudulent Acts 
 
1.  When  it  is  suspected  that  fraudulent  acts  in 
connection with the Certificate of Origin (Form AHK) 
have  been  committed,  the  Parties  concerned  shall 
cooperate in the action to be taken in the respective 
Parties  against  the  persons  involved  to  the  extent 
permitted  under  their  applicable  internal  laws  and 
regulations. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  provide  legal  sanctions  for 
fraudulent acts related to the Certificate of Origin (Form 
AHK)  in  accordance  with  its  internal  laws  and 
regulations. 
   
60 
  APPENDIX 
 
 
LIST OF DATA REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
   
61 
 