CHAPTER 8 
 
 
TRADE IN SERVICES 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
 
(a)   a  service  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental  authority  means  any  service 
which is supplied neither on a commercial basis, 
nor  in  competition  with  one  or  more  service 
suppliers; 
 
(b)   commercial  presence  means  any  type  of 
business  or  professional  establishment, 
including through: 
 
(i)   the  constitution,  acquisition  or 
maintenance of a juridical person; or 
 
(ii)   the creation or maintenance of a branch or 
a representative office, 
 
within  the  Area  of  a  Party  for  the  purpose  of 
supplying a service; 
 
(c)   direct taxes comprise all taxes on total income, 
on total capital or on elements of income or of 
capital,  including  taxes  on  gains  from  the 
alienation  of  property,  taxes  on  estates, 
inheritances  and  gifts,  and  taxes  on  the  total 
amounts  of  wages  or  salaries  paid  by 
146 
 enterprises,  as  well  as  taxes  on  capital 
appreciation; 
 
(d)   juridical  person  means  any  legal  entity  duly 
constituted  or  otherwise  organised  under 
applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, 
and whether privately-owned or governmentally-
owned,  including  any  corporation,  trust, 
partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship or 
association; 
 
(e)   juridical  person  of  another  Party  means  a 
juridical person which is either: 
 
(i)   constituted or otherwise organised under 
the law of that other Party, and is engaged 
in substantive business operations in the 
Area of that Party or any other Party; or 
 
(ii)   in  the  case  of  the  supply  of  a  service 
through  commercial  presence,  owned  or 
controlled by: 
 
(1)   natural persons of that Party; or 
 
(2)   juridical persons of that other Party 
identified under subparagraph (i); 
 
(f)   a juridical person is: 
 
(i)   “owned” by persons of a Party if more than 
50 per cent of the equity interest in it is 
beneficially  owned  by  persons  of  that 
Party; 
 
(ii)   “controlled” by persons of a Party if such 
persons have the power to name a majority 
147 
 of its directors or otherwise to legally direct 
its actions; 
 
(iii)  “affiliated”  with  another  person  when  it 
controls,  or  is  controlled  by,  that  other 
person; or when it and the other person are 
both controlled by the same person; 
 
(g)   measure  means  any  measure  by  a  Party, 
whether  in the  form  of  a  law,  regulation,  rule, 
procedure, decision, administrative action, or any 
other form; 
 
(h)   measures  by  Parties  affecting  trade  in 
services include measures in respect of: 
 
(i)   the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
 
(ii)   the access to and use of, in connection with 
the supply of a service, services which are 
required by the Parties to be offered to the 
public generally; 
 
(iii)   the  presence,  including  commercial 
presence,  of  persons  of  a  Party  for  the 
supply of a service in the Area of another 
Party; 
 
(i)   monopoly  supplier  of  a  service  means  any 
person, public or private, which in the relevant 
market of the Area of a Party is authorised or 
established formally or in effect by that Party as 
the sole supplier of that service; 
 
   
148 
 (j)  in respect of the meaning of natural person of 
another Party, Article XXVIII (k) of GATS shall 
apply to this Chapter, mutatis mutandis7;  
 
(k)  person  means  either  a  natural  person  or  a 
juridical person; 
 
(l)   sector of a service means: 
 
(i)   with reference to a specific commitment, 
one  or  more,  or  all,  subsectors  of  that 
service, as specified in a Party’s Schedule; 
 
(ii)   otherwise, the whole of that service sector, 
including all of its subsectors; 
 
(m)   services  includes  any  service  in  any  sector 
except  services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental authority; 
 
(n)   service  consumer  means  any  person  that 
receives or uses a service; 
 
(o)   service of another Party means a service which 
is supplied: 
 
(i)   from or in the Area of that other Party, or in 
the case of maritime transport, by a vessel 
registered  under  the  laws  of  that  other 
Party or by a person of that other Party 
which  supplies  the  service  through  the 
operation  of  a  vessel  and/or  its  use  in 
whole or in part; or 
 
                                                           
7 For Thailand, for a Party that has both nationals and permanent residents and has 
not notified the WTO, a natural person of that Party shall be limited to a national who 
resides in the Area of that Party or elsewhere and who under the law of that Party is 
a national of that Party.  
149 
 (ii)  in  the  case  of  the  supply  of  a  service 
through  commercial  presence  or through 
the  presence  of  natural  persons,  by  a 
service supplier of that other Party; 
 
(p)   service  supplier  means  any  person  that 
supplies a service;8 
 
(q)   supply  of  a  service  includes  the  production, 
distribution,  marketing,  sale  and  delivery  of  a 
service; and 
 
(r)   trade in services is defined as the supply of a 
service: 
 
(i)   from the Area of a Party into the Area of 
any  other  Party  (cross-border  supply: 
Mode 1); 
 
(ii)   in  the  Area  of  a  Party  to  the  service 
consumer of any other Party (consumption 
abroad: Mode 2); 
 
(iii)   by a service supplier of a Party, through 
commercial presence in the  Area of any 
other Party (commercial presence: Mode 
3); 
 
(iv)   by a service supplier of a Party, through 
presence of natural persons of a Party in 
the Area of any other Party (presence of 
natural persons: Mode 4).  
                                                           
8 Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other 
forms of commercial presence such as a branch or a representative office, the service 
supplier (i.e. the juridical person) shall, nonetheless, through such presence be 
accorded the treatment provided for service suppliers under this Chapter.  Such 
treatment shall be extended to the presence through which the service is supplied and 
need not be extended to any other parts of the supplier located outside the Area where 
the service is supplied. 
150 
 Article 2 
 
Scope 
 
1.   This  Chapter  applies  to  measures  by  a  Party 
affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter, measures by a 
Party means measures taken by: 
 
(a)  central,  regional,  or  local  governments  or 
authorities; and 
 
(b)  non-governmental bodies in the exercise of 
powers  delegated  by  central,  regional,  or 
local governments or authorities. 
 
3.   In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under 
this  Chapter,  each  Party  shall  take  reasonable 
measures  as  may  be  available  to  it  to  ensure  their 
observance  by  regional  and  local  governments  and 
authorities  and  non-governmental  bodies  within  its 
Area. 
 
4.   This  Chapter  shall  not  apply  to  measures 
affecting: 
 
(a)   government procurement; 
 
(b)  cabotage in maritime transport services; 
 
(c)   subject to Article 13 (Subsidies), subsidies or 
grants including government-supported loans, 
guarantees,  and  insurance,  provided  by  a 
Party  or  to  any  conditions  attached  to  the 
receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether 
or not such subsidies or grants are offered 
151 
 exclusively  to  domestic  services,  service 
consumers or service suppliers;  
 
(d)  services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental  authority  within  the  Area  of 
each respective Party; or 
 
(e)   in  respect  of  air  transport  services,  traffic 
rights however granted; or services directly 
related to the exercise of traffic rights, other 
than measures affecting: 
 
(i)   aircraft repair and maintenance services; 
 
(ii)   the selling and marketing of air transport 
services; and 
 
(iii)   computer reservation system services. 
 
5.   The  Parties  note  the  multilateral  negotiations 
pursuant  to  the  review  of  the  GATS  Annex  on  Air 
Transport  Services.    Upon  the  conclusion  of  such 
multilateral negotiations, the Parties shall conduct a 
review  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  appropriate 
amendments to this Chapter so as to incorporate the 
results of such multilateral negotiations. 
 
6.   Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to measures 
affecting  natural  persons  seeking  access  to  the 
employment market of another Party, nor shall it apply 
to  measures  regarding  citizenship,  residence  or 
employment on a permanent basis. 
 
7.   For  greater  certainty,  this  Chapter  shall  not 
prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate the 
entry of natural persons of another Party into, or their 
temporary stay in, its Area, including those measures 
necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the 
152 
 orderly  movement  of  natural  persons  across,  its 
borders, provided that such measures are not applied 
in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits 
accruing to another Party under the terms as set out in 
Article 19 (Schedule of Specific Commitments) of the 
Party applying the measures9. 
 
Article 3 
 
Transparency 
 
Article III of GATS is incorporated into and shall form 
an integral part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 4 
 
Disclosure of Confidential Information 
 
Article III bis of GATS is incorporated into and shall 
form an integral part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 5 
 
Domestic Regulation 
 
1.   In  sectors  where  specific  commitments  are 
undertaken, each Party shall ensure that all measures 
of general application affecting trade in services are 
administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial 
manner. 
 
2.   (a)   Each  Party  shall  maintain  or  institute  as 
soon as practicable judicial, arbitral or administrative 
tribunals or procedures which provide, at the request of 
an affected service supplier, for the prompt review of, 
                                                           
9 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of another Party and not for 
those of a non-Party shall not be regarded as nullifying or impairing benefits accruing 
to another Party under the terms of a specific commitment. 
153 
 and  where  justified,  appropriate  remedies  for, 
administrative  decisions  affecting  trade  in  services. 
Where such procedures are not  independent of the 
agency  entrusted  with  the  administrative  decision 
concerned, the Party shall ensure that the procedures 
in fact provide for an objective and impartial review. 
 
  (b)   The provisions of subparagraph (a) shall 
not be construed to require a Party to institute such 
tribunals  or  procedures  where  this  would  be 
inconsistent  with  its  constitutional  structure  or  the 
nature of its legal system. 
 
3.   Where authorisation is required for the supply of 
a service on which a specific commitment under this 
Chapter has been made, the competent authorities of 
each Party shall: 
 
(a)   in the case of an incomplete application, at 
the request of the applicant, identify all the 
additional  information  that  is  required  to 
complete the application and provide the 
opportunity to remedy deficiencies within a 
reasonable timeframe; 
 
(b)   within a reasonable period of time after the 
submission  of  an  application  considered 
complete  under  its  internal  laws  and 
regulations,  inform  the  applicant  of  the 
decision  whether  or  not  to  grant  the 
relevant authorisation; 
 
(c)  at  the  request  of  the  applicant,  provide 
without  undue  delay  information 
concerning  the  status  of  the  application; 
and 
(d)   if an application is terminated or denied, to 
the maximum extent possible, inform the 
154 
 applicant in writing and without delay the 
reasons for such action.  The applicant will 
have the possibility of resubmitting, at its 
discretion, a new application. 
 
4.   With  the  objective  of  ensuring  that  measures 
relating to qualification requirements and procedures, 
technical standards and licensing requirements do not 
constitute unnecessary barriers to trade in services, 
the  Parties  shall  jointly  review  the  results  of  the 
negotiations  on  disciplines  on  these  measures, 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article VI of GATS, with a 
view  to  their  incorporation  into  this  Chapter.    The 
Parties note that such disciplines aim to ensure that 
such requirements are, inter alia: 
 
(a)  based on objective and transparent criteria, 
such  as  competence  and  the  ability  to 
supply the service; 
 
(b)   not more burdensome than necessary to 
ensure the quality of the service; and 
 
(c)  in the case of licensing procedures, not in 
themselves a restriction on the supply of 
the service. 
 
5.   (a)   In sectors in which a Party has undertaken 
specific commitments, pending the incorporation of the 
disciplines referred to in paragraph 4, that Party shall 
not apply licensing and qualification requirements and 
technical standards that nullify or impair such specific 
commitments in a manner which: 
 
(i)  does not comply with the criteria outlined in 
subparagraph 4 (a), 4 (b) or 4 (c); and 
 
155 
 (ii)  could not reasonably have been expected 
of  that  Party  at  the  time  the  specific 
commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
(b)   In  determining  whether  a  Party  is  in 
conformity with the obligation under subparagraph (a), 
account shall be taken of international standards of 
relevant  international  organisations10 applied  by  that 
Party. 
 
6.  In sectors where specific commitments regarding 
professional services are undertaken, each Party shall 
provide  for  adequate  procedures  to  verify  the 
competence of professionals of any other Party. 
 
7.  Where a Party maintains measures relating to 
qualification  requirements  and  procedures,  technical 
standards and licensing requirements, the Party shall 
endeavour to make publicly available: 
 
(a)  information on requirements and procedures 
to  obtain,  renew  or  retain  any  licences  or 
professional qualifications; and 
 
(b)  information on technical standards. 
 
8.  In respect of non-governmental bodies which are 
not  exercising  governmental  authority  or  are  not 
administering  mandatory  domestic  regulations,  each 
Party shall endeavour to encourage them to comply, 
where appropriate, with the provisions of this Article.  
 
   
                                                           
10 The term “relevant international organisations” refers to international bodies 
whose membership is open to the relevant bodies of at least all Parties of this 
Agreement. 
156 
 Article 6 
 
Recognition 
 
1.   For the purposes of fulfilment, in whole or in part, 
of  their  respective  standards  or  criteria  for  the 
authorisation,  licensing  or  certification  of  service 
suppliers,  and  subject  to  the  requirements  of 
paragraph 4, each Party may recognise the education 
or experience obtained, requirements met, or licences 
or  certifications  granted  in  another  Party.  Such 
recognition,  which  may  be  achieved  through 
harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an 
agreement or arrangement between the Parties or the 
relevant competent bodies of the Parties or may be 
accorded autonomously. 
 
2.   Two  or  more  Parties  may  enter  into,  or 
encourage  their  relevant  competent  bodies  to  enter 
into,  negotiations  on  recognition  of  qualification 
requirements,  qualification  procedures,  licensing 
and/or  registration  procedures  for  the  purposes  of 
fulfilment of their respective standards or criteria for the 
authorisation,  licensing  or  certification  of  service 
suppliers. 
 
3.  A  Party  that  is  a  party  to  an  agreement  or 
arrangement of the type referred to in paragraph 1, 
whether  existing  or  future,  shall  afford  adequate 
opportunity  for  other  interested  Parties  to  negotiate 
their accession to such an agreement or arrangement 
or to negotiate comparable ones with it.  Where a Party 
accords  recognition  autonomously,  it  shall  afford 
adequate  opportunity  for  any  other  Party  to 
demonstrate that education, experience, licences, or 
certifications obtained or requirements met in that other 
Party’s Area should be recognised. 
 
157 
 4.   A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner 
which  would  constitute  a  means  of  discrimination 
among the Parties in the application of its standards or 
criteria for the authorisation, licensing or certification of 
services suppliers, or a disguised restriction on trade in 
 
services.
 
Article 7 
 
Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  any  monopoly 
supplier of a service in its Area does not, in the supply 
of the monopoly service in the relevant market, act in a 
manner inconsistent with that Party’s obligations under 
specific commitments. 
 
2.   Where  a Party’s monopoly  supplier  competes, 
either directly or through an affiliated company, in the 
supply of a service outside the scope of its monopoly 
rights  and  which  is  subject  to  that  Party’s  specific 
commitments,  the  Party  shall  ensure  that  such  a 
supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in 
its  Area  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  such 
commitments. 
 
3.  If  any  Party  has  reason  to  believe  that  a 
monopoly supplier of a service of any other Party is 
acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 1 or 2, 
that  Party  may  request  the  Party  establishing, 
maintaining  or  authorising  such  supplier  to  provide 
specific  information  concerning  the  relevant 
operations. 
 
4.  The provisions of this Article shall also apply to 
cases of exclusive service suppliers, where a Party, 
formally or in effect: 
 
158 
 (a)  authorises or establishes a small number of 
service suppliers; and 
 
(b)  substantially prevents competition among 
those suppliers in its Area. 
 
Article 8 
 
Business Practices 
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  that  certain  business 
practices of service suppliers, other than those falling 
under  Article  7  (Monopolies  and  Exclusive  Service 
Suppliers),  may  restrain  competition  and  thereby 
restrict trade in services. 
 
2.  Each Party shall, at the request of any other Party 
(the “Requesting Party”), enter into consultations with 
a view to eliminating practices referred to in paragraph 
1.  The Party addressed (the “Requested Party”) shall 
accord full and sympathetic consideration to such a 
request  and  shall  co-operate  through  the  supply  of 
publicly  available  non-confidential  information  of 
relevance to the matter in question.  The Requested 
Party shall also provide other information available to 
the Requesting Party, subject to its internal law and to 
the conclusion of satisfactory agreement concerning 
the  safeguarding  of  its  confidentiality  by  the 
Requesting Party. 
 
   
159 
 Article 9 
 
Safeguards 
 
1.  The  Parties  note  the  multilateral  negotiations 
pursuant  to  Article  X  of  GATS  on  the  question  of 
emergency safeguard measures based on the principle 
of  non-discrimination.  Upon  the  conclusion  of  such 
multilateral negotiations, the Parties shall conduct a 
review  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  appropriate 
amendments to this Chapter so as to incorporate the 
results of such multilateral negotiations.  
 
2.   In  the  event  that  the  implementation  of  this 
Chapter  causes  substantial  adverse  impact  to  a 
service sector of a Party before the conclusion of the 
multilateral negotiations referred to in paragraph 1, the 
affected Party may request for consultations with the 
other Party for the purposes of discussing any measure 
with  respect  to  the  affected  service  sector.    Any 
measure  taken  pursuant  to  this  paragraph  shall  be 
mutually agreed by the Parties concerned.  The Parties 
concerned shall take into account the circumstances of 
the particular case and give sympathetic consideration 
to the Party seeking to take a measure. 
 
Article 10 
 
Payments and Transfers 
 
1.  Except  under  the  circumstances  envisaged  in 
Article 11 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of 
Payments),  a  Party  shall  not  apply  restrictions  on 
international  transfers  and  payments  for  current 
transactions relating to its specific commitments. 
 
2.   Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and 
obligations  of  any  Party  who  is  a  member  of  the 
160 
 International  Monetary  Fund  (the  “Fund”)  under  the 
Articles of Agreement of the Fund, including the use of 
exchange  actions  which  are  in  conformity  with  the 
Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  Fund,  provided  that  a 
Party  shall  not  impose  restrictions  on  any  capital 
transactions  inconsistently  with  its  specific 
commitments  regarding  such  transactions,  except 
under Article 11 (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance 
of Payments) or at the request of the Fund. 
 
Article 11 
 
Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of 
Payments 
 
Where a Party is in serious balance-of-payments and 
external financial difficulties or threat thereof, it may 
adopt or maintain restrictions on trade in services in 
accordance with Article XII of GATS. 
 
Article 12 
 
Security Exceptions 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to: 
(a)  require any Party to furnish any information, the 
disclosure of which it considers contrary to its 
essential security interests; or 
(b)  prevent any Party from taking any action which it 
considers  necessary  for  the  protection  of  its 
essential  security  interests,  including  but  not 
limited to: 
(i)  action relating to fissionable and fusionable 
materials or the materials from which they 
are derived; 
161 
 (ii)  action  relating  to  the  traffic  in  arms, 
ammunition and implements of war and to 
such traffic in other goods and materials as 
is  carried  on  directly  or indirectly for the 
purpose  of  supplying  a  military 
establishment; 
(iii)  action taken so as to protect critical public 
infrastructures  including  communications, 
power  and  water  infrastructures  from 
deliberate attempts intended to disable or 
degrade such infrastructures;  
(iv)  action  taken  in  time  of  war  or  other 
emergency  in  domestic  or  international 
relations; or 
(c)  prevent  any  Party  from  taking  any  action  in 
pursuance  of  its  obligations  under  the  United 
Nations  Charter  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
 
Article 13 
 
Subsidies 
 
1.  Except as provided in this Article, this Chapter 
shall not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a 
Party, or to any conditions attached to the receipt or 
continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether 
or not such subsidies or grants are offered exclusively 
to  domestic  services,  service  consumers  or  service 
suppliers.    If  such  subsidies  or  grants  significantly 
affect trade in services committed under this Chapter, 
any Party may request for consultations with a view to 
an amicable resolution of this matter. 
 
162 
 2.  Pursuant to this Article, the Parties shall: 
 
(a)  on request, provide information on subsidies 
related to trade in services committed under 
this Chapter to any requesting Party; and 
 
(b)  review  the  treatment  of  subsidies  when 
relevant  disciplines  are  developed  by  the 
WTO. 
 
Article 14 
 
WTO Disciplines 
 
Subject to any future agreements as may be agreed 
pursuant  to  reviews  of  this  Chapter  by  the  Parties 
under Article 23 (Review), the Parties hereby agree 
and  reaffirm  their  commitments  to  abide  by  the 
provisions of the agreements under the framework of 
WTO  Agreement  as  are  relevant  and  applicable  to 
trade in services. 
 
Article 15 
 
Increasing Participation of Cambodia, Lao PDR, 
Myanmar and Viet Nam 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
163 
  
 
(d)  appropriate  flexibility  for  Cambodia,  Lao  PDR, 
Myanmar,  and  Viet  Nam  for  opening  fewer 
sectors, liberalising fewer types of transactions 
and  progressively  extending  market  access  in 
line with their respective level of development. 
 
Article 16 
 
Market Access 
 
1.  With  respect  to  market  access  through  the 
modes of supply identified in subparagraph (r) of Article 
1  (Definitions),  a  Party  shall  accord  services  and 
service suppliers of any other Party treatment no less 
favourable  than  that  provided  for  under  the  terms, 
limitations and conditions agreed and specified in its 
Schedule.11 
 
2.   In  sectors  where  market-access  commitments 
are undertaken, the measures which a Party shall not 
maintain  or  adopt  either  on  the  basis  of  a  regional 
subdivision or on the basis of its entire Area, unless 
otherwise specified in its Schedule, are defined as: 
 
(a)  limitations  on  the  number  of  service 
suppliers whether in the form of numerical 
                                                           
11 If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to the supply of a 
service through the mode of supply referred to in subparagraph (r) (i) of Article 1 
(Definitions) and if the cross-border movement of capital is an essential part of the 
service itself, that Party is thereby committed to allow such movement of capital.  If 
a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to the supply of a service 
through the mode of supply referred to in subparagraph (r) (iii) of Article 1 
(Definitions), it is thereby committed to allow related transfers of capital into its 
Area. 
164 
 quotas,  monopolies,  exclusive  service 
suppliers  or  the  requirements  of  an 
economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations  on  the  total  value  of  service 
transactions  or  assets  in  the  form  of 
numerical quotas or the requirement of an 
economic needs test; 
 
(c)  limitations on the total number of service 
operations  or  on  the  total  quantity  of 
service  output  expressed  in  terms  of 
designated numerical units in the form of 
quotas or the requirement of an economic 
needs test;12 
 
(d)  limitations on the total number of natural 
persons  that  may  be  employed  in  a 
particular service sector or that a service 
supplier  may  employ  and  who  are 
necessary for, and directly related to, the 
supply of a specific service in the form of 
numerical quotas or the requirement of an 
economic needs test; 
 
(e)  measures which restrict or require specific 
types of legal entity or joint venture through 
which  a  service  supplier  may  supply  a 
service; and 
 
(f)  limitations  on  the  participation  of  foreign 
capital  in  terms  of  maximum  percentage 
limit  on  foreign  shareholding  or  the  total 
value  of  individual  or  aggregate  foreign 
investment. 
 
                                                           
12 Subparagraph 2 (c) does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the 
supply of services. 
165 
 Article 17 
 
National Treatment 
 
1.  In  the  sectors  inscribed  in  its  Schedule,  and 
subject  to  any  conditions  and  qualifications  set  out 
therein, each Party shall accord to services and service 
suppliers of any other Party, in respect of all measures 
affecting  the  supply  of  services,  treatment  no  less 
favourable than that it accords to its own like services 
and service suppliers13. 
 
2.  A Party may meet the requirement of paragraph 
1 by according to services and service suppliers of any 
other  Party,  either  formally  identical  treatment  or 
formally different treatment to that it accords to its own 
like services and service suppliers. 
 
3.  Formally identical or formally different treatment 
shall be considered to be less favourable if it modifies 
the conditions of competition in favour of services or 
service suppliers of the Party compared to like services 
or service suppliers of any other Party. 
 
Article 18 
 
Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect 
to measures affecting trade in services not subject to 
scheduling  under  Article  16  (Market  Access)  and 
Article  17  (National  Treatment)  including  those 
regarding  qualifications,  standards  or  licensing 
matters.  Such  commitments  shall  be  inscribed  in  a 
Party’s Schedule. 
                                                           
13 Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require 
any Party to compensate for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result 
from the foreign character of the relevant services or service suppliers.  
166 
  
Article 19 
 
Schedule of Specific Commitments 
 
1.  Each Party shall set out in a schedule the specific 
commitments it undertakes under Article 16 (Market 
Access), Article 17 (National Treatment) and Article 18 
(Additional  Commitments).    With  respect  to  sectors 
where  such  commitments  are  undertaken,  each 
Schedule shall specify: 
 
(a)  the sectors in which such commitments are 
undertaken; 
 
(b)  terms, limitations and conditions on market 
access; 
 
(c)  conditions  and  qualifications  on  national 
treatment; 
 
(d)  undertakings  relating  to  additional 
commitments; and 
 
(e)  where  appropriate  the  time-frame  for 
implementation of such commitments. 
 
2.  Measures  inconsistent  with  both  Article  16 
(Market Access) and Article 17 (National Treatment) 
shall be inscribed in the columns relating to Article 16 
(Market Access). 
3.  The Parties’ schedules of specific commitments 
shall  be  annexed  to  this  Chapter  at  Annex  8-1 
(Schedules of Specific Commitments) and shall form 
an integral part thereof. 
 
   
167 
 Article 20 
 
Application and Extension of Commitments 
 
1.  Hong Kong, China shall make a single schedule 
of specific commitments under Article 19 (Schedule of 
Specific Commitments) and shall apply its Schedule to 
all ASEAN Member States. 
 
2.  Each  ASEAN  Member  State  shall  make  its 
individual  schedule  of  specific  commitments  under 
Article  19  (Schedule  of  Specific  Commitments)  and 
shall apply its Schedule to Hong Kong, China and the 
rest of the ASEAN Member States. 
 
Article 21 
 
Modification of Commitments 
 
1.  A Party may modify or withdraw any commitment 
in its Schedule (the “modifying Party”) at any time after 
three years from the date on which that commitment 
has entered into force, provided that: 
 
(a)  the modifying Party notifies the other Parties as 
well as the ASEAN Secretariat of its intention 
to modify or withdraw a commitment no later 
than three months before the intended date of 
implementation  of  the  modification  or 
withdrawal; and 
 
(b)  the  modifying  Party  enters  into  negotiations 
with  any  affected  Party  to  agree  to  the 
necessary compensatory adjustment. 
 
2.  In  achieving  a  compensatory  adjustment,  the 
Parties concerned shall ensure that the general level of 
mutually  advantageous  commitment  is  not  less 
168 
 favourable to trade than provided for in the Schedules 
prior to such negotiations. 
 
3.  Any compensatory adjustment pursuant to this 
Article shall be accorded on a non-discriminatory basis 
to all Parties. 
 
4.  If the Parties concerned are unable to reach an 
agreement  on  the  compensatory  adjustment,  the 
matter shall be resolved by arbitration under Chapter 
13  (Consultations  and  Dispute  Settlement).    The 
modifying  Party  may  not  modify  or  withdraw  its 
commitment  until  it  has  made  compensatory 
adjustments  in  conformity  with  the  findings  of  the 
arbitration. 
 
5.  If the modifying Party implements its proposed 
modification or withdrawal and does not comply with 
the  findings  of  the  arbitration,  any  Party  that 
participated in the arbitration may modify or withdraw 
substantially  equivalent  benefits  in  conformity  with 
those findings.  Notwithstanding Article 20 (Application 
and Extension of Commitments), such a modification 
or withdrawal may be implemented solely with respect 
to the modifying Party. 
 
   
169 
 Article 22 
 
Contact Point 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  to 
facilitate communications among the Parties on any 
matter covered by this Chapter, including the exchange 
of  information  relevant  to  the  implementation  and 
operation of this Chapter. 
 
2.  At the request of any Party, the contact point of 
the requested Party shall identify the office or official 
responsible  for  the  matter  and  assist  in  facilitating 
communication with the requesting Party. 
 
Article 23 
 
Review 
 
1.  The  Parties  shall  review  this  Chapter  in 
accordance with Article 7 (Review) of Chapter 14 (Final 
Provisions)  for  the  purpose  of  considering  further 
measures to liberalise trade in services as well as to 
develop  disciplines  and  negotiate  agreements  on 
matters referred to in Article 14 (WTO Disciplines) or 
any other relevant matters as may be agreed. 
 
2.  The  Parties  may,  at  the  reviews  pursuant  to 
paragraph 1, enter into negotiations to negotiate further 
improvements  to  specific  commitments  under  this 
Chapter  so  as  to  progressively  liberalise  trade  in 
services between the Parties. 
 
   
170 
 Article 24 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
1.  The  GATS  Annexes,  namely,  Annex  on 
Movement  of  Natural  Persons  Supplying  Services 
under the Agreement, Annex on Air Transport Services, 
Annex  on  Financial  Services,  and  Annex  on 
Telecommunications,  shall  apply  to  this  Chapter, 
mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, this 
Chapter or any action taken under it shall not affect or 
nullify  the  rights  and  obligations  of  a  Party  under 
existing agreements to which it is a party. 
 
Article 25 
 
Denial of Benefits 
 
A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  to the supply of a service, if the Party establishes 
that the service is supplied from or in the area of 
a non-Party; 
 
(b)  in the case of the supply of a maritime transport 
service, if the Party establishes that the service 
is supplied: 
 
(i)  by a vessel registered under the laws of a 
non-Party; and 
 
(ii)  by a person of a non-Party which operates 
and/or uses the vessel in whole or in part; 
 
171 
 (c)  to a service supplier that is a juridical person, if 
the Party establishes that that juridical person is 
not a service supplier of another Party. 
   
172 
 