CHAPTER 12 
 
 
INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 1 
 
AHKFTA Joint Committee 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish the ASEAN - Hong 
Kong, China Free Trade Area Joint Committee (the 
“AHKFTA  Joint  Committee”)  consisting  of 
representatives of the Parties. 
 
2.  The functions of the AHKFTA Joint Committee 
shall be to: 
 
(a)  review the implementation and operation of 
this  Agreement  and  the  AHK  Investment 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  consider and recommend to the Parties any 
amendment  to  this  Agreement  or  the  AHK 
Investment Agreement; 
 
(c)   supervise  and  co-ordinate  the  work  of  all 
subsidiary  bodies  established  under  this 
Agreement15, as well as other joint activities 
conducted  under  this  Agreement  and  the 
AHK Investment Agreement 16; 
  
                                                           
15 For the avoidance of doubt, subsidiary bodies established under this Agreement 
include  the  sub-committees  established  under  the  relevant  Chapters  of  this 
Agreement, but does not include any arbitral tribunal established under Chapter 13 
(Consultations and Dispute Settlement). 
 
16 The other joint activities do not include activities conducted under Chapter 13 
(Consultations and Disputes Settlement) and arbitration conducted under the AHK 
Investment Agreement. 
184 
 (d)  consider  and  adopt,  where  appropriate, 
decisions and recommendations of subsidiary 
bodies established under this Agreement; 
 
(e)  consider any other matter that may affect the 
operation  of  this  Agreement  or  the  AHK 
Investment Agreement or that is entrusted to 
it by the Parties; and 
 
(f)  carry out any other function as the Parties 
may agree. 
 
3.  In  the  fulfilment  of  its  functions,  the  AHKFTA 
Joint  Committee  may  establish  additional subsidiary 
bodies,  including  ad  hoc  bodies,  and  assign  the 
subsidiary  bodies  established  under  this  Agreement 
with  tasks  on  specific  matters,  or  delegate  its 
responsibilities to any of them. 
 
4.  The AHKFTA Joint Committee shall establish its 
rules and procedures. 
 
5.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the AHKFTA 
Joint Committee shall convene its first meeting within 
one year after this Agreement enters into force.  Its 
subsequent  meetings  shall  be  convened  at  such 
frequency as the Parties may mutually determine, and 
as  necessary  to  discharge  its  functions  under  this 
Agreement.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the 
AHKFTA Joint Committee shall convene alternately in 
ASEAN  Member  States  and  Hong  Kong,  China.  
Special meetings of the AHKFTA Joint Committee may 
be convened, as agreed by the Parties, within 30 days 
from the date of receipt of the request of a Party or as 
otherwise mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
   
185 
 Article 2 
 
Communications 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  to 
facilitate communications among the Parties on any 
matter  relating  to  this  Agreement.    All  official 
communications in this regard shall be in the English 
language. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  provide  details  of  its  contact 
point to the other Parties.  Each Party shall notify the 
other Parties promptly of any amendment to the details 
of its contact point.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
186 
 