CHAPTER 13 
 
 
CONSULTATIONS AND DISPUTE SETTLEMENT  
 
 
SECTION A 
 
Introductory Provisions 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Definitions  
   
For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context 
otherwise requires: 
 
(a)  Complaining  Party  means  any  Party  that 
requests  consultations  under  Article  6 
(Consultations); 
 
(b)  dispute arising under this Agreement means 
a  complaint  made  by  a  Complaining  Party 
concerning any measure affecting the operation, 
implementation, or application of this Agreement 
whereby any benefit accruing to such Party under 
this Agreement is being nullified or impaired, or 
the attainment of any objective of this Agreement 
is being impeded, as a result of the failure of the 
Responding Party to carry out its obligations17 
under this Agreement18;  
 
                                                           
17 A failure to carry out its obligations includes application by the Responding Party 
of any measure which is in conflict with the obligations under this Agreement. 
 
18 Non-violation complaints are not permitted under this Agreement. 
187 
 (c)  Parties to the dispute means the Complaining 
Party and the Responding Party; 
 
(d)  Responding Party means any Party to which the 
request for consultations is made under Article 6 
(Consultations); and 
 
(e)  Third Party means any Party that has notified its 
substantial  interest  in  the  matter  before  an 
arbitral  tribunal  pursuant  to  Article  10  (Third 
Party). 
 
Article 2 
 
Objective 
 
The objective of this Chapter is to provide an effective, 
efficient and transparent process for consultations and 
settlement of disputes arising under this Agreement. 
 
Article 3  
 
Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement, 
this Chapter shall apply to the settlement of disputes 
arising under this Agreement.  This Chapter shall not 
apply  to  the  settlement  of  disputes  arising  under 
Chapter  7  (Trade  Remedies),  Chapter  9  (Economic 
and  Technical  Co-operation),  and  Chapter  10 
(Intellectual Property). 
 
2.  This Chapter shall apply subject to such special 
and  additional  provisions  on  dispute  settlement 
contained in other Chapters of this Agreement. 
 
3.  Subject  to  Article  5  (Choice  of  Forum),  this 
Chapter is without prejudice to the rights of a Party to 
188 
 have  recourse  to  dispute  settlement  procedures 
available  under  other  international  agreements  to 
which it is a party. 
 
Article 4 
 
General Provisions 
 
1.  This  Agreement  shall  be  interpreted  in 
accordance  with  the  customary  rules  of  treaty 
interpretation of public international law. 
 
2.  All  notifications,  requests  and  replies  made 
pursuant to this Chapter shall be in writing. 
 
3.  The  Parties  to  the  dispute  are  encouraged  at 
every stage of the dispute to make every effort to reach 
a mutually agreed solution to the dispute.  Where a 
mutually  agreed  solution  is  reached,  the  terms  and 
conditions of the agreement shall be notified to all other 
Parties. 
 
4.  Unless  otherwise  specified,  any  time  period 
provided in this Chapter may be modified by mutual 
agreement of the Parties to the dispute provided that 
any such modification shall not prejudice the rights of a 
Third Party pursuant to Article 10 (Third Party). 
 
Article 5 
 
Choice of Forum  
 
1.  Where a dispute concerning any matter arises 
under this Agreement and under another international 
agreement to which the Parties to the dispute are party, 
the Complaining Party may select the forum in which to 
address that matter.  The forum selected shall be used 
189 
 to the exclusion of other possible fora in respect of that 
matter. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Article, the Complaining 
Party shall be deemed to have selected the forum in 
which to settle the dispute when it has requested the 
establishment  of  an  arbitral  tribunal  pursuant  to 
Article 8  (Request  for  Establishment  of  an  Arbitral 
Tribunal) or requested the establishment of, or referred 
a matter to, a dispute settlement panel under another 
international agreement. 
 
3.  This Article does not apply where the Parties to 
the dispute agree in writing that this Article shall not 
apply to a particular dispute. 
 
 
SECTION B 
 
Consultation Provisions 
  
 
Article 6 
 
Consultations 
 
1.  A Party may request consultations with any other 
Party with respect to any dispute arising under this 
Agreement.    A  Responding  Party  shall  accord  due 
consideration to a request for consultations made by a 
Complaining  Party  and  shall  accord  adequate 
opportunity for such consultations. 
 
2.  A request for consultations shall give the reasons 
for the request, including identification of the measure 
at issue and an indication of the factual and legal basis 
for the complaint.  
 
190 
 3.  The  Complaining  Party  shall  simultaneously 
provide a copy of such request to all other Parties.  The 
Responding  Party  shall  immediately  acknowledge 
receipt of the request by way of notification to all the 
Parties, indicating the date on which the request was 
received. 
 
4.  The  Responding  Party  shall,  unless  otherwise 
mutually agreed, reply to the request within seven days 
after  the  date  of  its  receipt  and  shall  enter  into 
consultations within a period of no more than:  
 
(a)  10 days after the date of receipt of the request 
in  cases  of  urgency,  including  those 
concerning perishable goods; or 
 
(b)  30 days after the date of receipt of the request 
for any other matter. 
 
5.  If  the  Responding  Party  does  not  enter  into 
consultations  within  the  periods  specified  in 
paragraph 4, or a period otherwise mutually agreed, 
the Complaining Party may proceed directly to request 
the  establishment of  an  arbitral  tribunal  pursuant to 
Article  8  (Request  for  Establishment  of  an  Arbitral 
Tribunal). 
 
6.  The Parties to the dispute shall make every effort 
to  reach  a  mutually  satisfactory  solution  through 
consultations.  To this end, the Parties to the dispute 
shall: 
 
(a)  provide sufficient information to enable a full 
examination of the matter, including how the 
measure  at  issue  might  affect  the 
implementation  or  application  of  this 
Agreement; 
 
191 
 (b)  treat  any  confidential  or  proprietary 
information  exchanged  in  the  course  of 
consultations on the same basis as the Party 
providing the information; and  
 
(c)  upon  request  by  a  Party  to  the  dispute, 
endeavour  to  make  available  for  the 
consultations personnel of their government 
agencies or other regulatory bodies who have 
responsibility  for  or  expertise  in  the  matter 
under consultation.  
 
7.  Consultations shall be confidential and without 
prejudice to the rights of the Parties to the dispute in 
any further or other proceedings. 
 
8.   Whenever a Party other than the Parties to the 
dispute considers that it has a substantial trade interest 
in the consultations, such Party may notify the Parties 
to the dispute, within seven days after the date of the 
notification of the request for consultations, of its desire 
to be joined in the consultations.  Such notification shall 
be simultaneously provided to all other Parties.  Such 
Party shall be joined in the consultations if the Parties 
to the dispute agree.   
 
Article 7  
 
Good Offices, Conciliation, Mediation  
 
1.  The Parties to the dispute may at any time agree 
to good offices, conciliation or mediation.  Procedures 
for good offices, conciliation or mediation may begin at 
any time and be terminated at any time. 
 
2.  If the Parties to the dispute agree, procedures for 
good offices, conciliation or mediation may continue 
192 
 while  the  matter  is  being  examined  by  an  arbitral 
tribunal established or re-convened under this Chapter. 
 
3.  Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation 
and mediation and positions taken by the Parties to the 
dispute during these proceedings shall be confidential 
and without prejudice to the rights of any Party to the 
dispute in any further or other proceedings. 
 
 
SECTION C 
 
Adjudication Provisions 
 
 
Article 8 
 
Request for Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal 
 
1.  The  Complaining  Party  may  request  the 
establishment  of  an  arbitral  tribunal  to  consider  the 
dispute arising under this Agreement if: 
 
(a)  the  Responding  Party  does  not  enter  into 
consultations in accordance with paragraph 4 
of Article 6 (Consultations); or 
 
(b)  the  consultations  fail  to  resolve  a  dispute 
within: 
 
(i)  20 days after the date of receipt of the 
request for consultations in cases of 
urgency,  including  those  concerning 
perishable goods; 
  
(ii)  60 days after the date of receipt of the 
request  for  consultations  regarding 
any other matter; or 
193 
  
(iii)  any other period as the Parties to the 
dispute may agree. 
 
2.  A request made pursuant to paragraph 1 shall 
identify  the  specific  measure  at  issue  and  provide 
details of the factual and legal basis of the complaint 
(including  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  to  be 
addressed by the arbitral tribunal) sufficient to present 
the problem clearly. 
 
3.  The  Complaining  Party  shall  simultaneously 
provide a copy of such request to all other Parties.  The 
Responding  Party  shall  immediately  acknowledge 
receipt of the request by way of notification to all the 
Parties, indicating the date on which the request was 
received. 
 
4.  Where  a  request  is  made  pursuant  to 
paragraph 1, an arbitral tribunal shall be established in 
accordance  with  Article  11  (Establishment  and  Re-
convening of an Arbitral Tribunal). 
 
Article 9 
 
Procedures for Multiple Complainants  
 
1.  Where  more  than  one  Party  requests  the 
establishment of an arbitral tribunal related to the same 
matter, a single arbitral tribunal shall be established to 
examine  these  complaints  if  all  the  Parties  to  the 
disputes agree.  The Parties to the disputes should 
seek to establish a single arbitral tribunal whenever 
feasible. 
 
2.  The  single  arbitral  tribunal  shall  organise  its 
examination and present its findings in such a manner 
that the rights which the Parties to the dispute would 
194 
 have enjoyed had separate arbitral tribunals examined 
the complaints are in no way impaired. 
 
3.  If more than one arbitral tribunal is established to 
examine the complaints related to the same matter, the 
Parties to the disputes shall endeavour to ensure that 
the same persons serve as arbitrators for each arbitral 
tribunal. The arbitral tribunals shall consult each other 
to  ensure,  to  the  greatest  extent  possible,  that  the 
timetables  for  the  arbitral  tribunal  processes  are 
harmonised. 
 
Article 10  
 
Third Party  
 
1.  Any  Party  having  a  substantial  interest  in  a 
matter before an arbitral tribunal may notify the Parties 
to the dispute of its interest no later than 10 days after 
the  date  of  receipt  by  the  Responding  Party  of  the 
request for the establishment of the arbitral tribunal or 
the date of a request for a Compliance Review Tribunal 
pursuant to Article 16 (Compliance Review).  The Party 
shall  simultaneously  provide  such  notification  to  all 
other  Parties.    The  Party  notifying  its  substantial 
interest shall have the rights and obligations of a Third 
Party. 
  
2.  A Third Party shall receive the submissions of the 
Parties to the dispute to the first substantive meeting of 
the arbitral tribunal with the Parties to the dispute under 
Rule 10 of Annex 13-1 (Rules of Procedure for Arbitral 
Tribunal Proceedings).  
 
3.  A Third Party shall have an opportunity to make 
at least one written submission to the arbitral tribunal 
and  shall  have  an  opportunity  to  be  heard  by  the 
arbitral tribunal at its first substantive meeting with the 
195 
 Parties  to  the  dispute.    The  Third  Party  shall 
simultaneously  provide  any  submission  or  other 
document submitted by it to the Parties to the dispute 
and all other Third Parties. 
 
4.  The Parties to the dispute may agree to provide 
additional  or  supplemental  rights  to  Third  Parties 
regarding participation in arbitral tribunal proceedings.  
In  providing  additional  or  supplemental  rights,  the 
Parties to the dispute may impose conditions.  Unless 
the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitral 
tribunal shall not grant any additional or supplemental 
rights to Third Parties regarding participation in arbitral 
tribunal proceedings. 
 
5.  If a Third Party considers that a measure already 
the subject of an arbitral tribunal proceeding nullifies or 
impairs benefits accruing to it under this Agreement, 
such Party may have recourse to dispute settlement 
procedures under this Chapter. 
 
Article 11 
 
Establishment and Re-convening of an Arbitral 
Tribunal  
 
1.  An  arbitral  tribunal  requested  pursuant  to 
Article 8  (Request  for  Establishment  of  an  Arbitral 
Tribunal) shall be established in accordance with this 
Article. 
 
2.  Unless  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  otherwise 
agree,  the  arbitral  tribunal  shall  consist  of  three 
arbitrators.    All  appointments  and  nominations  of 
arbitrators under this Article shall conform fully with the 
requirements in paragraphs 7 and 8. 
 
196 
 3.  The Parties to the dispute shall each appoint one 
arbitrator within 20 days after the date of receipt by the 
Responding Party of a request under paragraph 3 of 
Article  8  (Request  for  Establishment  of  an  Arbitral 
Tribunal).  Where there is more than one Complaining 
Party, they shall jointly appoint an arbitrator. 
 
4.   Following the appointment of the arbitrators in 
accordance with paragraph 3, the Parties to the dispute 
shall agree on the appointment of the third arbitrator 
who shall serve as the chair of the arbitral tribunal.  To 
assist in reaching this agreement, each of the Parties 
to the dispute may provide to the other Party or Parties 
to  the  dispute  a  list  of  up  to  three  nominees  for 
appointment as the chair of the arbitral tribunal.  Where 
there is more than one Complaining Party, the list of up 
to  three  nominees  shall  be  jointly  provided  by  the 
Complaining Parties.  If the Parties to the dispute fail to 
agree on the chair of the arbitral tribunal within 15 days 
after the appointment of the second arbitrator, the two 
appointed  arbitrators  shall  designate  by  common 
agreement  the  third  arbitrator  who  shall  chair  the 
arbitral tribunal. 
 
5.   If  any  of  the  three  arbitrators  has  not  been 
appointed within 45 days after the date of the receipt of 
a request under paragraph 3 of Article 8 (Request for 
Establishment of an Arbitral Tribunal), any Party to the 
dispute may request the Director-General of the WTO 
to make the remaining appointments within a further 
period of 15 days.  Any lists of nominees which were 
provided under paragraph 4 shall also be provided to 
the Director-General of the WTO and may be used in 
making the required appointments.  In the event that 
the Director-General of the WTO is a national19 of any 
                                                           
19 For the purposes of this paragraph and paragraph 8 only, in the case of Hong Kong, 
China,  “national”  means  a  permanent  resident  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 
197 
 Party to the dispute, the Deputy Director-General of the 
WTO  or  the  officer  next  in  seniority  who  is  not  a 
national of any Party to the dispute shall be requested 
to make the necessary appointments. 
 
6.  The date of establishment of the arbitral tribunal 
shall  be  the  date  on  which  the  last  arbitrator  is 
appointed.  
 
7.  All arbitrators shall: 
 
(a)  have  expertise  or  experience  in  law, 
international trade, other matters covered by 
this Agreement, or the resolution of disputes 
arising under international trade agreements; 
 
(b)  be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, 
reliability, and sound judgement;  
 
(c)  be independent of, and not be affiliated with 
or take any instruction from, any Party to the 
dispute or Third Party; 
 
(d)  not have dealt with the matter under dispute 
in any capacity; 
 
(e)  disclose  to  the  Parties  to  the  dispute 
information which may give rise to justifiable 
doubts  as  to  their  independence  or 
impartiality;  
 
(f)   serve in their individual capacities, and not as 
government  representatives  or 
representatives of any organisation; and  
 
(g)   comply  with  the  Rules  of  Conduct  for  the 
Understanding  on  Rules  and  Procedures 
Governing  the  Settlement  of  Disputes 
198 
 adopted  by  the  WTO  Dispute  Settlement 
Body on 11 December 1996. 
 
8.   Unless  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  otherwise 
agree, arbitrators shall not be nationals of any Party to 
the dispute. In addition, the chair of an arbitral tribunal 
shall not have his or her usual place of residence in any 
Party to the dispute.  
 
9.  All Parties shall not give arbitrators instructions 
or seek to influence them as individuals with regard to 
matters before an arbitral tribunal. 
 
10.  If  an  arbitrator  appointed  under  this  Article 
resigns  or  becomes  unable  to  act,  a  successor 
arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as 
prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator 
and shall have all the powers and duties of the original 
arbitrator.  The work of the arbitral tribunal shall be 
suspended during the appointment of the successor 
arbitrator. 
 
11.  Where an arbitral tribunal is re-convened under 
Article  16  (Compliance  Review)  or  Article  17 
(Compensation  and  Suspension  of  Concessions  or 
other  Obligations),  the  re-convened  arbitral  tribunal 
shall, where possible, have the same arbitrators as the 
original arbitral tribunal.  Where this is not possible, any 
replacement arbitrator shall be appointed in the same 
manner  as  prescribed  for  the  appointment  of  the 
original arbitrator, and shall have all the powers and 
duties of the original arbitrator.    
 
   
199 
 Article 12 
 
Functions of an Arbitral Tribunal  
 
1.  An  arbitral  tribunal  shall  make  an  objective 
assessment  of  the  matter  before  it,  including  an 
objective assessment of:  
 
(a)  the facts of the case; 
 
(b)  the  applicability  of  the  provisions  of  this 
Agreement cited by the Parties to the dispute; 
and 
 
(c)  whether the Responding Party has failed to 
carry out its obligations under this Agreement.   
 
2.  An arbitral tribunal shall have the following terms 
of reference unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise 
agree within 20 days from the date of the establishment 
of an arbitral tribunal: 
 
“To examine, in the light of the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, the matter 
referred  to  in  the  request  for 
establishment of an arbitral tribunal made 
pursuant  to  Article  8  (Request  for 
Establishment  of  an  Arbitral  Tribunal), 
and  to  make  such  findings  and  if 
applicable,  recommendations  provided 
for in this Agreement.”  
 
The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  make  its  findings  in 
accordance with this Agreement. 
 
3.  The arbitral tribunal shall set out in its report: 
 
200 
 (a)  a  descriptive  section  summarising  the 
submissions and arguments of the Parties to 
the dispute and, if applicable, Third Parties; 
  
(b)  its findings on the facts of the case and on the 
applicability of the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement; 
 
(c)  its findings on whether the Responding Party 
has failed to carry out its obligations under 
this Agreement, and its recommendations, if 
any, for the resolution of the matter; and  
 
(d)  its reasons for its findings in subparagraphs 
(b) and (c). 
 
4.  In addition to  paragraph  3,  an  arbitral  tribunal 
may include in its report any other findings relating to 
the  dispute  jointly  requested  by  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute.  The arbitral tribunal may recommend ways in 
which  the  Responding  Party  could  implement  such 
findings.  
 
5.  Unless  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  otherwise 
agree, an arbitral tribunal shall base its report solely on 
the  relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the 
submissions  and  arguments  of  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute and, if applicable, Third Parties and any other 
information provided to the arbitral tribunal pursuant to 
paragraph  8  of  Article  13  (Arbitral  Tribunal 
Procedures).  The submissions of Third Parties shall 
be reflected in the report of the arbitral tribunal.  
 
6.  The interests of the Parties to the dispute and 
those of other Parties shall be fully taken into account 
during the arbitral tribunal proceedings. 
 
201 
 7.  The findings and recommendations of the arbitral 
tribunal referred to in paragraph 2 cannot add to or 
diminish  the  rights  and  obligations  provided  in  this 
Agreement.  
   
8.  The arbitral tribunal shall consult the Parties to 
the  dispute  regularly  and  provide  adequate 
opportunities  for  the  development  of  a  mutually 
satisfactory solution to the dispute. 
 
9.  An  arbitral  tribunal  re-convened  under  this 
Chapter shall also carry out functions with regard to 
compliance  review  under  Article  16  (Compliance 
Review)  and  review  of  level  of  suspension  of 
concessions  or  other  obligations  under  Article  17 
(Compensation  and  Suspension  of  Concessions  or 
other Obligations).  Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not apply 
to  an  arbitral  tribunal  re-convened  under  Article  16 
(Compliance  Review)  and  Article  17 (Compensation 
and Suspension of Concessions or other Obligations). 
 
10.  An arbitral tribunal shall make its decisions by 
consensus.  If an arbitral tribunal is unable to reach 
consensus, it may make its decisions by majority vote.  
The arbitral tribunal shall indicate the different opinions 
of the arbitrators on matters not unanimously agreed in 
its report, not disclosing which arbitrator is associated 
with majority or minority opinions. 
 
Article 13 
 
Arbitral Tribunal Procedures  
 
1.   An  arbitral  tribunal  established  pursuant  to 
Article 11  (Establishment  and  Re-Convening  of  an 
Arbitral Tribunal) shall adhere to this Chapter.  Unless 
the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitral 
tribunal shall apply the rules of procedure set out in 
202 
 Annex 13-1 (Rules of Procedure for Arbitral Tribunal 
Proceedings).  On the request of a Party to the dispute, 
or on its own initiative, the arbitral tribunal may, after 
consulting the Parties to the dispute, adopt additional 
rules  of  procedure  which  do  not  conflict  with  the 
provisions of this Chapter or with Annex 13-1 (Rules of 
Procedure for Arbitral Tribunal Proceedings). 
 
2.   An arbitral tribunal re-convened under Article 16 
(Compliance Review) or Article 17 (Compensation and 
Suspension of Concessions or other Obligations) may, 
in consultation with the Parties to the dispute, establish 
its  own  procedures  which  do  not  conflict  with  this 
Chapter or Annex 13-1 (Rules of Procedure for Arbitral 
Tribunal  Proceedings),  drawing  as  it  deems 
appropriate from this Chapter or Annex 13-1 (Rules of 
Procedure for Arbitral Tribunal Proceedings). 
 
Timetable  
 
3.   After  consulting  the  Parties  to  the  dispute,  an 
arbitral  tribunal  shall,  as  soon  as  practicable  and 
whenever  possible  within  15  days  after  the 
establishment of the arbitral tribunal, fix the timetable 
for the arbitral tribunal process.  The arbitral tribunal 
process, from the date of establishment until the date 
of the final report shall, as a general rule, not exceed a 
period of 150 days, unless the Parties to the dispute 
otherwise agree.  
 
4.   Similarly,  a  Compliance  Review  Tribunal  re-
convened pursuant to Article 16 (Compliance Review) 
shall, as soon as practicable and whenever possible 
within 15 days after re-convening, fix the timetable for 
the compliance review process taking into account the 
time  periods  specified  in  Article  16  (Compliance 
Review). 
 
   
203 
 Arbitral Tribunal Proceedings  
 
5.   The procedures for arbitral tribunal proceedings 
should provide sufficient flexibility so as to ensure high-
quality reports, while not unduly delaying the arbitral 
tribunal process.  
 
Confidentiality 
 
6.   The deliberations of an arbitral tribunal shall be 
confidential.  
 
Additional Information and Technical Advice  
 
7.  The Parties to the dispute and Third Parties shall 
respond promptly and fully to any request by an arbitral 
tribunal  for  any  information  as  the  arbitral  tribunal 
considers necessary and appropriate.  
 
8.  An  arbitral  tribunal  may,  after  consulting  the 
Parties to the dispute, seek information and technical 
advice  from  any  individual  or  body  which  it  deems 
appropriate.    The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  provide  the 
Parties to the dispute with any information or technical 
advice  it  receives  and  an  opportunity  to  provide 
comments.  For greater certainty, where the arbitral 
tribunal takes the information or technical advice into 
account in the preparation of its report, it shall also take 
into  account  any  comments  by  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute on the information or technical advice.  
 
Reports 
 
9.   The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  provide  an  interim 
report  to  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  that  meets  the 
requirements  specified  in  paragraph  3  of  Article  12 
(Functions of an Arbitral Tribunal).  
 
204 
 10.  The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  present  its  interim 
report to the Parties to the dispute within 90 days after 
the date of establishment of the arbitral tribunal or in 
cases  of  urgency,  including  those  concerning 
perishable  goods,  within  60  days  after  the  date  of 
establishment of the arbitral tribunal.  In exceptional 
cases, if the arbitral tribunal considers it cannot present 
its interim report within 90 days, or within 60 days in 
cases  of  urgency,  it  shall  inform  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute in writing of the reasons for the delay together 
with  an  estimate  of  the  period  within  which  it  will 
present its report.  Unless the Parties to the dispute 
otherwise agree, any delay shall not exceed a further 
period of 30 days. 
 
11.  A  Party  to  the  dispute  may  submit  written 
comments on the interim report to the arbitral tribunal 
within  10  days  after  receiving  the  interim  report  or 
within such period as the Parties to the dispute may 
agree. 
 
12.  After considering any written comments by the 
Parties  to  the  dispute  and  making  any  further 
examination it considers necessary, the arbitral tribunal 
shall present its final report to the Parties to the dispute 
within 30 days after presentation of the interim report, 
unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree.  The 
final report shall set out any further arguments made 
by the Parties to the dispute on the interim report. 
 
13.    The  interim  and  final  reports  of  the  arbitral 
tribunal shall be drafted without the presence of the 
Parties  to  the  dispute.  Opinions  expressed  by 
individual  arbitrators  in  the  reports  of  the  arbitral 
tribunal shall be anonymous. 
 
14.   The arbitral tribunal shall provide its final report 
to  all  other  Parties  seven  days  after  the  report  is 
205 
 presented to the Parties to the dispute, and at any time 
thereafter a Party to the dispute may make the report 
publicly  available  subject  to  the  protection  of  any 
confidential information contained in the report. 
 
Article 14 
 
Suspension and Termination of Proceedings 
 
1.  The Parties to the dispute may agree that the 
arbitral tribunal suspends its work at any time for a 
period not exceeding 12 months from the date of such 
agreement.  In such event, the Parties to the dispute 
shall  jointly  notify  the  chair  of  the  arbitral  tribunal.  
Within this period, the suspended arbitral proceedings 
shall  resume  upon  the  request  of  any  Party  to  the 
dispute.  If the work of the arbitral tribunal has been 
continuously suspended for more than 12 months, the 
authority for the establishment of the arbitral tribunal 
shall lapse unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise 
agree.  
 
2.  The Parties to the dispute may agree to terminate 
the  proceedings  of  an  arbitral  tribunal  by  jointly 
notifying the chair of the arbitral tribunal at any time, in 
the event that a mutually satisfactory solution to the 
dispute has been found before the presentation of the 
final report to the Parties to the dispute.  
 
3.  Before  the  arbitral  tribunal  presents  its  final 
report, it may, at any stage of the proceedings, propose 
that the Parties to the dispute seek to settle the dispute 
amicably.   
 
4.  The Parties to the dispute shall notify all other 
Parties that the arbitral tribunal has been suspended or 
its authority has lapsed pursuant to paragraph 1 or has 
been terminated pursuant to paragraph 2.  
206 
  
 
SECTION D 
 
Implementation Provisions 
 
 
Article 15 
 
Implementation  
 
1.  Where  an  arbitral  tribunal  finds  that  the 
Responding Party has failed to carry out its obligations 
under  this  Agreement,  the  Responding  Party  shall 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement.  
 
2.  Within 30 days from the date of the presentation 
of the arbitral tribunal’s final report to the Parties to the 
dispute,  the  Responding  Party  shall  notify  the 
Complaining Party: 
 
(a)  of its intention with respect to implementation, 
including an indication of any possible action 
it may take to comply with the obligation in 
paragraph 1; 
   
(b)  whether such implementation can take place 
immediately; and 
 
(c)   if  such  implementation  cannot  take  place 
immediately,  the  reasonable  period  of  time 
the  Responding  Party  would  need  to 
implement. 
 
3.  If it is impracticable to comply immediately with 
the obligation in paragraph 1, the Responding Party 
shall have a reasonable period of time to do so. 
 
207 
 4.  If a reasonable period of time is required, it shall, 
whenever possible, be mutually agreed by the Parties 
to the dispute.  Where the Parties to the dispute are 
unable to agree on the reasonable period of time within 
45 days from the date of the presentation of the arbitral 
tribunal’s final report to the Parties to the dispute, any 
Party  to  the  dispute  may  request  that  the  arbitral 
tribunal  determines  the  reasonable  period  of  time.  
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, such 
request shall be made no later than 120 days from the 
date of the presentation of the arbitral tribunal’s final 
report to the Parties to the dispute. 
 
5.  Where  a  request  is  made  pursuant  to 
paragraph 4,  the  arbitral  tribunal  shall  present  the 
Parties  to  the  dispute  with  a  report  containing  a 
determination of the reasonable period of time and the 
reasons for such determination within 45 days from the 
date of the request. 
 
6.  As  a  guideline,  the  reasonable  period  of  time 
determined by the arbitral tribunal should not exceed 
15 months from the date of the presentation of the 
arbitral  tribunal’s  final  report  to  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute.    However,  its  duration  may  be  shorter  or 
longer, depending upon the particular circumstances. 
 
Article 16 
 
Compliance Review 
 
1.  Where the Parties to the dispute disagree on the 
existence  or  consistency  with  this  Agreement  of 
measures  taken  to  comply  with  the  obligation  in 
paragraph  1  of  Article  15  (Implementation),  such 
dispute shall be decided through recourse to an arbitral 
tribunal  re-convened  for  this  purpose  (“Compliance 
208 
 Review Tribunal”).20  Unless otherwise specified in this 
Chapter,  a  Compliance  Review  Tribunal  may  be 
convened at the request of any Party to the dispute.  
 
2.  The request for re-convening an arbitral tribunal 
under paragraph 1 may only be made after the earlier 
of: 
 
(a)  the expiry of the reasonable period of time as 
determined  under  Article  15 
(Implementation); or 
 
(b)  a notification to the Complaining Party by the 
Responding Party that it has complied with 
the  obligation  in  paragraph  1  of  Article  15 
(Implementation),  including  a  description  of 
how the Responding Party has complied with 
such obligation. 
 
3.  A  Compliance  Review  Tribunal  shall  make  an 
objective assessment of the matter before it, including 
an objective assessment of: 
 
(a)  the  factual  aspects  of  any  implementation 
action taken by the Responding Party; and 
 
(b)   whether the Responding Party has complied 
with the obligation in paragraph 1 of Article 15 
(Implementation). 
 
4.  The Compliance Review Tribunal shall set out in 
its report: 
 
                                                           
20  Consultations  under  Article  6  (Consultations)  are  not  required  for  these 
procedures. 
 
209 
 (a)  a  descriptive  section  summarising  the 
arguments of the Parties to the dispute and, if 
applicable, Third Parties; 
 
(b)  its findings on the factual aspects of the case; 
and 
 
(c)  its findings on whether the Responding Party 
has  complied  with  the  obligation  in 
paragraph 1 of Article 15 (Implementation).  
 
5.  The  Compliance  Review  Tribunal  shall,  where 
possible, provide its report to the Parties to the dispute 
within 60 days from the date it re-convenes.  When the 
Compliance Review Tribunal considers that it cannot 
provide  its  report  within  the  60-day  period,  it  shall 
inform  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  in  writing  of  the 
reasons for the delay together with an estimate of the 
period within which it will submit the report.  Unless the 
Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, it may extend 
the 60-day period for a maximum of 30 days. 
 
6.   Where  an  arbitral  tribunal  is  requested  to  re-
convene pursuant to paragraph 1, it shall re-convene 
within 15 days from the date of the request, unless 
paragraph  10  of  Article  11  (Establishment  and  Re-
Convening of an Arbitral Tribunal) applies.  
 
Article 17 
 
Compensation and Suspension of Concessions or 
other Obligations 
 
1.  Compensation and suspension of concessions or 
other obligations are temporary measures available in 
the event that the Responding Party does not comply 
with  its  obligation  under  paragraph  1  of  Article 15 
(Implementation).  However, neither compensation nor 
210 
 suspension  of  concessions  or  other  obligations  is 
preferred  to  compliance  with  the  obligation  under 
paragraph  1  of  Article  15  (Implementation).  
Compensation  is  voluntary  and,  if  granted,  shall  be 
consistent with this Agreement. 
 
2.  Where  either  of  the  following  circumstances 
exists: 
 
(a)  the  Responding  Party  has  notified  the 
Complaining Party that it does not intend to 
comply with the obligation in paragraph 1 of 
Article 15 (Implementation); or 
 
(b)  a  failure  to  comply  with  the  obligation  in 
paragraph  1  of  Article  15  (Implementation) 
has  been  established  in  accordance  with 
Article 16 (Compliance Review), 
 
the  Responding  Party  shall,  if  so  requested  by  the 
Complaining Party, enter into negotiations with a view 
to developing mutually acceptable compensation. 
 
3.  If no satisfactory compensation has been agreed 
within 30 days from the date of a request made under 
paragraph 2, the Complaining Party may at any time 
thereafter notify the Responding Party and  all other 
Parties that it intends to suspend the application to the 
Responding Party of concessions or other obligations 
equivalent to the level of nullification and impairment, 
and  shall  have  the  right  to  begin  suspending 
concessions or other obligations 30 days after the date 
of receipt of the notification by the Responding Party. 
 
4.  The  right  to  suspend  concessions  or  other 
obligations  arising  under  paragraph  3  shall  not  be 
exercised where: 
 
211 
 (a)  a  review  is  being  undertaken  pursuant  to 
paragraph 8; or 
 
(b)   a mutually agreed solution has been reached. 
 
5.  In  considering  what  concessions  or  other 
obligations to suspend pursuant to paragraph 3, the 
Complaining Party shall apply the following principles: 
 
(a)   the  Complaining  Party  should  first  seek  to 
suspend concessions or other obligations in 
the same sector or sectors as that affected by 
the measure; and  
 
(b)  the  Complaining  Party  may  suspend 
concessions  or  other  obligations  in  other 
sectors if it considers that it is not practicable 
or effective to suspend concessions or other 
obligations in the same sector or sectors. 
 
6.  A  notification  made  under  paragraph  3  shall 
specify the level of concessions or other obligations 
that the Complaining Party proposes to suspend, and 
the relevant Chapter or Chapters and sector or sectors 
which the concessions or other obligations are related 
to.  In the case where the Complaining Party suspends 
concessions  or  other  obligations  in  other  sectors 
pursuant to subparagraph 5 (b), the notification shall 
also indicate the reasons for which the suspension is 
based. 
 
7.  The  level  of  suspending  concessions  or  other 
obligations  shall  be  equivalent  to  the  level  of 
nullification  and  impairment.    For  the  avoidance  of 
doubt,  any  suspension  of  concessions  or  other 
obligations shall be restricted to those accruing to the 
Responding Party under this Agreement. 
 
212 
 8.  Within  30  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  a 
notification made under paragraph 3, if the Responding 
Party  objects  to  the  level  of  concessions  or  other 
obligations proposed for suspension or considers that 
the principles set forth in paragraph 5 have not been 
followed,  the  Responding  Party  may  request  the 
arbitral tribunal to re-convene to make findings on the 
matter.    The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  provide  its 
assessment to the Parties to the dispute within 30 days 
from the date it re-convenes.  Where an arbitral tribunal 
is requested to re-convene pursuant to this paragraph, 
it shall re-convene within 15 days from the date of the 
request,  unless  paragraph  10  of  Article  11 
(Establishment  and  Re-Convening  of  an  Arbitral 
Tribunal) applies. 
 
9.  The  suspension  of  concessions  or  other 
obligations shall be temporary and shall only be applied 
until  such  time  as  the  obligation  in  paragraph 1  of 
Article 15 (Implementation) has been complied with or 
a mutually satisfactory solution is reached. 
 
10.  Where the right to suspend concessions or other 
obligations has been exercised under this Article, if the 
Responding Party considers that:  
 
(a)   the level of concessions or other obligations 
suspended by the Complaining Party is not 
equivalent to the level of the nullification and 
impairment; or 
 
(b)   it  has  complied  with  the  obligation  in 
paragraph 1 of Article 15 (Implementation), 
it may request the arbitral tribunal to re-convene to 
examine the matter.21 
                                                           
21 Where a Compliance Review Tribunal determines that measures taken by the 
Responding Party do not comply with the obligation in paragraph 1 of Article 15 
213 
  
11.  Where the arbitral tribunal re-convenes pursuant 
to  subparagraph  10  (a),  paragraph  8  shall  apply, 
mutatis  mutandis.    Where  the  arbitral  tribunal  re-
convenes  pursuant  to  subparagraph  10  (b), 
paragraphs 3 to 5 of Article 16 (Compliance Review) 
shall apply.  
 
 
SECTION E 
 
Final Provisions 
 
 
Article 18 
 
Special and Differential Treatment Involving 
Newer ASEAN Member States  
 
1.  At all stages of the determination of the causes 
of  a  dispute  and  of  dispute  settlement  procedures 
involving  newer  ASEAN  Member  States,  particular 
sympathetic consideration shall be given to the special 
situation  of  newer  ASEAN  Member  States.    In  this 
regard, all Parties shall exercise due restraint in raising 
matters  under  these  procedures  involving  a  least-
developed country Party.  If nullification or impairment 
is found to result from a measure taken by a least-
developed  country  Party,  a  Complaining  Party  shall 
exercise due restraint regarding matters covered under 
Article  17  (Compensation  and  Suspension  of 
Concessions or other Obligations) or other obligations 
pursuant to these procedures. 
 
2.  Where one or more of the Parties to a dispute is 
a newer ASEAN Member State, the arbitral tribunal’s 
                                                           
(Implementation), it may also, on request, assess whether the level of any existing 
suspension of concessions is still appropriate and, if not, assess an appropriate level. 
214 
 reports shall explicitly indicate how it has taken account 
of  relevant  provisions  on  special  and  differential 
treatment for a newer ASEAN Member State that form 
part of this Agreement and have been raised by the 
newer  ASEAN  Member  State  in  the  course  of  the 
dispute settlement procedures.  
 
Article 19  
 
Expenses 
 
1.  Unless  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  otherwise 
agree, each Party to a dispute shall bear the costs of 
its appointed arbitrator and its own expenses and legal 
costs. 
 
2.  Unless  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  otherwise 
agree, the costs of the chair of the arbitral tribunal and 
other  expenses  associated  with  the  conduct  of  its 
proceedings  shall  be  borne  in  equal  parts  by  the 
Parties to the dispute. 
 
Article 20 
 
Contact Point 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate a contact point for this 
Chapter and shall notify the other Parties of the details 
of its contact point within 30 days of the entry into force 
of this Agreement.  Each Party shall notify the other 
Parties of any amendment to the details of its contact 
point.  
 
2.  Any  request,  written  submission  or  other 
document relating to any proceedings pursuant to this 
Chapter  shall  be  delivered  to  the  relevant  Party  or 
Parties  through their  designated  contact  points  who 
215 
 shall provide confirmation of receipt of such document 
in writing. 
   
216 
 Article 21 
 
Language 
 
1.  All proceedings pursuant to this Chapter shall be 
conducted in the English language.  
 
2.  Any  document  submitted  for  use  in  any 
proceedings pursuant to this Chapter shall be in the 
English language.  If any original document is not in the 
English language, the Party submitting it for use in the 
proceedings  shall  provide  an  English  language 
translation of that document 
 
   
217 
 