ANNEX 13-1 
 
 
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR ARBITRAL 
TRIBUNAL PROCEEDINGS  
 
 
Timetable 
 
1.  In  determining  the  timetable  for  the  arbitral 
tribunal  process,  the  arbitral  tribunal  shall  provide 
sufficient time for the Parties to the dispute to prepare 
their respective submissions.  The arbitral tribunal shall 
set precise deadlines for written submissions by the 
Parties to the dispute and the Third Parties and they 
shall respect those deadlines. 
 
2.   Any time period applicable to the arbitral tribunal 
proceedings  shall  be  suspended  for  a  period  that 
begins on the date on which any arbitrator resigns or 
becomes unable to act and ends on the date on which 
the successor arbitrator is appointed. 
 
3.   Unless  the  Parties  to  the  dispute  otherwise 
agree, an arbitral tribunal may, in consultation with the 
Parties  to  the  dispute,  modify  any  time  period 
applicable  in  the  arbitral  tribunal  proceedings  and 
make  such  other  procedural  or  administrative 
adjustments as may be required in the proceedings. 
 
Arbitral Tribunal Proceedings 
 
4.   The Parties to the dispute and Third Parties shall 
be present only when invited by the arbitral tribunal to 
appear before it.  Unless the Parties to the dispute 
otherwise  agree,  an  arbitral  tribunal  shall  hold  its 
substantive  meetings  in  closed  session.    All 
presentations  and  statements  made  at  substantive 
218 
 meetings shall be made in the presence of the Parties 
to  the  dispute.    There  shall  be  no  ex  parte 
communications with the arbitral tribunal concerning 
matters under consideration by it.  
 
5.  The chair of the arbitral tribunal shall preside at 
all of its meetings.  An arbitral tribunal may delegate to 
the  chair  authority  to  make  administrative  and 
procedural decisions.  
 
6.   Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Annex,  the 
arbitral  tribunal  may  conduct  its  business  by  any 
means, including by telephone, facsimile transmission, 
or any other means of electronic communication. 
 
7.   Only members of the arbitral tribunal may take 
part in the deliberations of the arbitral tribunal. 
 
8.   The arbitral tribunal may, in consultation with the 
Parties  to  the  dispute,  retain  such  number  of 
assistants,  interpreters,  translators,  designated  note 
takers, or other individuals as may be required for the 
proceedings and permit them to be present during its 
deliberations.  Any such arrangements established by 
the arbitral tribunal may be modified by the agreement 
of the Parties to the dispute. 
 
Written Submissions and other Documents 
  
9.   Each Party to the dispute shall have opportunity 
to set out in writing the facts of its case, its arguments 
and counter-arguments.  The timetable fixed by the 
arbitral  tribunal  shall  include  precise  deadlines  for 
submissions by the Parties to the dispute and Third 
Parties. 
 
10.   Each Party to the dispute shall transmit to the 
arbitral tribunal a first submission in writing setting out 
219 
 the facts of its case and its arguments.  Unless the 
Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, a Complaining 
Party shall deliver its first submission  to the arbitral 
tribunal and to the Responding Party within 14 days 
after  the  date  of  the  establishment  of  the  arbitral 
tribunal.  The Responding Party shall deliver its first 
submission  to  the  arbitral  tribunal  and  to  the 
Complaining  Party  within  21  days  after  the  date  of 
receipt of the first submission of the Complaining Party.  
All subsequent written submissions shall be submitted 
simultaneously.  
 
11.   A Party to the dispute shall deliver no less than 
four copies of each of its written submissions to the 
arbitral  tribunal  and  one  copy  to  the  other  Party  or 
Parties to the dispute.  Third Parties shall receive the 
submissions of the Parties to the dispute to the first 
substantive meeting.  The copies shall be delivered 
against  receipt,  or  by  registered  post,  courier,  or 
facsimile.  A copy of the written submissions shall also 
be provided in electronic format.  
 
12.   In respect of any written request, notice, or other 
document delivered to the arbitral tribunal related to the 
arbitral tribunal proceeding that is not covered by Rules 
10 and 11, each Party to the dispute shall deliver a 
copy of such request, notice, or document to the other 
Party  or  Parties  to  the  dispute  and  may  do  so  by 
facsimile,  email,  or  other  means  of  electronic 
transmission. 
 
13.   A Party to the dispute may at any time correct 
minor errors of a clerical nature in any written request, 
notice, submission, or other document related to the 
arbitral  tribunal  proceeding  by  delivering  a  new 
document clearly indicating the changes. 
 
   
220 
 Substantive Meetings 
 
14.   The timetable fixed by the arbitral tribunal shall 
provide for at least one substantive meeting for the 
Parties  to  the  dispute  to  present  their  case  to  the 
arbitral tribunal.  As a general rule, the timetable shall 
not provide more than two substantive meetings unless 
special circumstances exist.  
 
15.   At the first substantive meeting with the Parties 
to the dispute, each Party to the dispute shall present 
the  facts  of  its  case  and  its  arguments.    The 
Complaining Party shall present its position first.  The 
Parties to the dispute shall be given an opportunity for 
final statements, with the Complaining Party presenting 
its statement first. 
 
16.   All Third Parties shall be invited to present their 
views during a separate session of the first substantive 
meeting  of  the  arbitral  tribunal  set  aside  for  that 
purpose.  All Third Parties may be present during the 
entirety of this session. 
 
17.   The Parties to the dispute and Third Parties shall 
make available to the arbitral tribunal written versions 
of their oral statements and responses to questions 
made in substantive meetings with the arbitral tribunal. 
 
Confidentiality 
 
18.   Written submissions, documents, information, or 
technical  advice  submitted  to  the  arbitral  tribunal, 
written versions of oral statements and responses to 
questions  made  in  substantive  meetings  with  the 
arbitral  tribunal  shall  be  treated  as  confidential,  but 
shall be made available to the Parties to the dispute.  
No  Party  to  the  dispute  shall  be  precluded  from 
disclosing statements of its own positions to the public 
221 
 provided  that  there  is  no  disclosure  of  information 
which has been designated as confidential by a Party 
to the dispute, a Third Party, or any individual or body 
under  paragraph  8  of  Article  13  (Arbitral  Tribunal 
Procedures).  The Parties to the dispute, Third Parties 
and  the  arbitral  tribunal  shall  treat  information 
submitted  by  a  Party  to  the  dispute  to  the  arbitral 
tribunal,  which  that  Party  has  designated  as 
confidential, as confidential information.  A Party to the 
dispute shall within 28 days of a request of another 
Party  to  the  dispute,  provide  a  non-confidential 
summary  of  the  information  contained  in  its  written 
submissions that could be disclosed to the public.  
 
19.   The  members  of  the  arbitral  tribunal  and  the 
persons retained by the arbitral tribunal shall maintain 
the confidentiality of arbitral tribunal proceedings and 
deliberations. 
 
Venue 
20.   The  venue  for  substantive  meetings  shall  be 
decided by mutual agreement between the Parties to 
the dispute.  If there is no agreement, the venue shall 
alternate  between  the  Areas  of  the  Parties  to  the 
dispute, with the first substantive meeting to be held in 
the Area of the Responding Party. 
 
Remuneration and Payment of Expenses 
 
21.   The  arbitral  tribunal  shall  keep  a  record  and 
render a final account of all general expenses incurred 
in  connection  with  the  arbitral  tribunal  proceedings, 
including those paid to the chair of the arbitral tribunal 
as  well  as  its  assistants,  interpreters,  translators, 
designated  note  takers,  or  other  individuals  that  it 
retains pursuant to Rule 8. 
   
222 
 