CHAPTER 4 
 
 
CUSTOMS PROCEDURES AND TRADE 
FACILITATION 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)   Customs Administration means: 
 
(i)  in  respect  of  ASEAN,  the  customs 
administration  of  each  ASEAN  Member 
State  or  competent  authorities  that  are 
responsible under the  internal law of the 
ASEAN  Member  State  for  the 
administration of customs law; and 
 
(ii)  in  respect  of  Hong  Kong,  China,  the 
Customs and Excise Department of Hong 
Kong, China; 
 
(b)   customs  law  means  any  internal  law 
administered,  applied  or  enforced  by  the 
Customs Administration of a Party; and 
 
(c)   customs  procedures  means  the  treatment 
applied by the Customs Administration of a Party 
to a good that is subject to customs law.  
 
   
117 
 Article 2 
 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a)  ensure  predictability,  consistency  and 
transparency in the application of the customs 
laws of the Parties;  
 
(b)    promote efficient and economical administration 
of  customs  procedures,  and  the  expeditious 
clearance of goods; 
 
(c)  simplify and harmonise customs procedures to 
the extent possible; 
 
(d)   promote  co-operation  among  the  Customs 
Administrations of the Parties; and 
 
(e)    facilitate trade among the Parties. 
 
Article 3 
 
Scope 
 
This Chapter applies, in accordance with the Parties’ 
respective  internal  laws,  to  customs  procedures 
applied to goods traded among the Parties. 
 
Article 4 
 
Customs Procedures and Facilitation 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  its  customs 
procedures and practices are predictable, consistent 
and transparent, and facilitate trade including through 
the expeditious clearance of goods.  
118 
 2.   Customs procedures of the Parties shall, where 
possible and to the extent permitted by their respective 
customs  laws,  conform  to  standards  and 
recommended  practices  of  the  World  Customs 
Organization  and  other  international  organisations 
relevant to customs. 
 
3.   The Customs Administration of each Party shall 
review its customs procedures to facilitate trade. 
 
4.  Customs control shall be limited to such control 
which  is  necessary  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
customs laws of the respective Parties. 
 
Article 5 
 
Pre-arrival Processing 
 
The  Customs  Administration  of  each  Party  shall 
endeavour to adopt or maintain procedures allowing 
for the submission of import documentation and other 
required  information,  in  electronic  format  as 
appropriate, in order to begin processing prior to the 
arrival of a good with a view to expediting the release 
of the good upon arrival. 
 
Article 6 
 
Risk Management 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  use  risk  management  to 
determine control measures with a view to facilitating 
legitimate  trade,  and  expediting  customs  clearance 
and release of goods. 
 
2.  Each Party shall administer customs procedures 
so as to expedite the clearance of low-risk goods and 
focus on high-risk goods. 
119 
 Article 7  
 
Customs Valuation 
 
Each Party shall determine the customs value of goods 
traded with other Parties in accordance with Article VII 
of GATT 1994 and the Customs Valuation Agreement. 
 
Article 8 
 
Classification of Goods 
 
Each Party shall apply the International Convention on 
the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding 
System  signed  at  Brussels  on  14  June  1983,  as 
amended, to goods traded with other Parties. 
 
Article 9 
 
Use of Information Technology System 
 
1.  The  Customs  Administration  of  each  Party, 
where applicable, shall apply information technology in 
customs operations based on internationally accepted 
standards  for  expeditious  customs  clearance  and 
release of goods. 
 
2.   Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  establish  and 
operate its single window system to enable traders to 
submit  documentation  or  data  requirements  for 
importation, exportation or transit of goods through a 
single entry point to its relevant authorities or agencies. 
 
 
   
120 
 Article 10 
 
Authorized Economic Operators 
 
1.   The Customs Administration of each Party shall 
endeavour  to  establish  a  programme  of  Authorized 
Economic Operators (AEOs) on the basis of the SAFE 
Framework  of  Standards  to  Secure  and  Facilitate 
Global Trade of the World Customs Organization (the 
“SAFE Framework”) to promote informed compliance 
and facilitate trade while ensuring effective customs 
control. 
 
2.   The Customs Administrations of the Parties shall 
endeavour to work towards mutual recognition of AEOs 
and  develop  their  programmes  on  the  basis  of 
international standards under the SAFE Framework. 
 
Article 11 
 
Post Clearance Audit 
 
The  Customs  Administration  of  each  Party  shall 
establish and operate post clearance audits to ensure 
compliance  with  customs  and  other  related  law  for 
expeditious customs clearance. 
 
Article 12 
 
Advance Rulings 
 
1.  Each Party, through its Customs Administration 
or other relevant authorities, shall, subject to its internal 
law  and  administrative  determinations,  provide  in 
writing advance rulings to an applicant described in 
subparagraph  2  (a),  in  respect  of  the  tariff 
classification, appropriate method or criteria and the 
121 
 application  thereof  to  be  used  for  determining  the 
customs valuation, and origin of goods. 
 
2.  Where  available,  each  Party  shall  adopt  or 
maintain procedures for advance rulings, which shall: 
 
(a)  provide  that  an  exporter,  importer  or  any 
person  with  a  justifiable  cause  or  a 
representative  thereof  may  apply  for  an 
advance  ruling  before  the  importation  of  a 
good in question; 
 
(b)  require that an applicant for an advance ruling 
provides a detailed description of the good 
and  all  relevant  information  needed  to 
process an application for an advance ruling; 
 
(c)   provide that its Customs Administration may, 
at any time during the course of evaluation of 
an application for an advance ruling, request 
the applicant to provide additional information 
within a specified period; 
 
(d)  provide that any advance ruling be based on 
the facts and circumstances presented by the 
applicant, and any other relevant information 
in the possession of the decision-maker; and 
 
(e)  provide that an advance ruling be issued to 
the applicant expeditiously on receipt of all 
necessary  information,  within  the  period 
specified in each Party’s respective internal 
law or administrative determinations. 
 
3.  A Party may reject an application for an advance 
ruling  where  the  additional  information  requested  in 
accordance with subparagraph 2 (c) is not provided 
within the specified period. 
122 
  
4.  Subject  to  paragraphs  1  and  5  and  where 
available, each Party shall apply an advance ruling to 
all  importations  of  goods  described  in  that  ruling 
imported into its Area for three years from the date of 
that ruling, or such other period as specified in that 
Party's internal law or administrative determinations. 
 
5.   A Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling 
upon a determination that the ruling was based on an 
error  of  fact  or  law  (including  human  error),  the 
information provided is false or inaccurate, there is a 
change in its internal law in a manner consistent with 
this Agreement, or there is a change in a material fact 
or circumstances on which the ruling was based. 
 
6.   Where  an  importer  claims  that  the  treatment 
accorded to an imported good should be governed by 
an advance ruling, the Party may evaluate whether the 
facts  and  circumstances  of  the  importation  are 
consistent  with  the  facts  and  circumstances  upon 
which an advance ruling was based. 
 
Article 13 
 
Temporary Admission 
 
1.  Each Party shall facilitate temporary admission of 
a  good  in  accordance  with  its  internal  law  and  the 
relevant international standards applied by the Party. 
 
2.  Temporary  admission  in  this  Article  means 
customs  procedures  for  certain  goods  which  are 
brought into a Party for a specific purpose and intended 
for  re-exportation  within  a  specified  period  without 
having  undergone  any  change  except  normal 
depreciation  due  to  the  use  made  of  them.    Such 
customs  procedures  may  include  the  goods  being 
123 
 conditionally relieved totally or partially from payment 
of import duties and taxes. 
 
Article 14 
 
Express Consignments 
 
1.   The Customs Administration of each Party shall 
endeavour  to  put  in  place  adequate  measures  and 
mechanisms to facilitate customs clearance of express 
consignments,  including  pre-arrival  lodging  and 
processing of a goods declaration. 
 
2.   Goods  declaration  in  this  Article  means  a 
statement  made  in  the  manner  prescribed  by  the 
Customs  Administration  of  a  Party,  by  which  the 
persons concerned indicate the customs procedure to 
be  applied  to  the  goods  and  furnish  the  particulars 
which  the  Customs  Administration  requires  for  the 
application of the customs procedure. 
 
Article 15 
 
Customs Co-operation 
 
To the extent permitted by its internal law, the Customs 
Administration  of  each  Party  may,  as  it  deems 
appropriate,  assist  the  Customs  Administration  of 
another Party on: 
 
(a)   the  implementation  and  operation  of  this 
Chapter; and  
 
(b)  such  other  issues  as  the  Parties  mutually 
determine. 
 
   
124 
 Article 16 
 
Publication and Enquiry Points 
 
1.  The Customs Administration of each Party shall 
publish on the internet or in print form the customs law 
and customs administrative procedures that it applies 
or enforces, including any modifications thereof, except 
law enforcement procedures and internal operational 
guidelines. 
 
2.   The Customs Administration of each Party shall 
designate  one  or  more  enquiry  points  to  deal  with 
enquiries from interested persons concerning customs 
matters, and shall make available on the internet or in 
print form information concerning the procedures for 
making such enquiries. 
 
Article 17 
 
Consultations 
 
1.   Each  Party  shall  encourage  its  Customs 
Administration  to  consult  with  the  Customs 
Administrations of the other Parties regarding issues 
related to trade in goods arising from the operation or 
implementation of this Chapter. 
   
2.   The Customs Administration of each Party shall 
designate one or more contact points for the purposes 
of this Chapter.  Each Party shall provide information 
on the contact points to the other Parties and notify any 
amendment to such information to the other Parties as 
soon as practicable. 
 
3.   The consultations referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
be  conducted  through  the  contact  points  of  the 
125 
 Customs Administrations of the relevant Parties, within 
a timeframe to be mutually determined. 
 
4.   Any action taken pursuant to paragraph 1 shall 
be without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the 
Parties under Chapter 13 (Consultations and Dispute 
Settlement)  or  under  the  WTO  Dispute  Settlement 
Understanding. 
 
Article 18 
 
Review and Appeal 
 
1.  Each Party shall, in accordance with its internal 
law, provide that the importer, exporter or any other 
person  affected  by  its  administrative  rulings, 
determinations or decisions have access to:  
 
(a)   a level of administrative appeal to or review 
by the authority higher than or independent of 
the official or office responsible for the rulings, 
determinations  or  decisions.  The  level  of 
administrative appeal or review may include 
any  authority  supervising  the  Customs 
Administration, subject to the internal law of 
the Party; and/or  
 
(b)  judicial review or appeal of the administrative 
rulings, determinations or decisions subject to 
its internal law. 
 
2.  The decision on review or appeal shall be given 
to the applicant or appellant and, subject to the Party’s 
internal law, the reasons for such decision shall be 
provided in writing.  
 
   
126 
 