CHAPTER 6 
 
 
STANDARDS, TECHNICAL REGULATIONS AND 
CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES 
 
 
Article 1 
 
Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
(a)  TBT  Agreement  means  the  Agreement  on 
Technical Barriers to Trade in Annex 1A to the 
WTO Agreement; and  
 
(b)  the definitions in Annex 1 of the TBT Agreement 
are incorporated into and shall form part of this 
Chapter, mutatis mutandis. 
 
Article 2 
 
Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to facilitate trade in 
goods among the Parties by: 
 
(a)   ensuring  that  standards,  technical  regulations, 
and conformity assessment procedures do not 
create unnecessary obstacles to trade;  
 
(b)   promoting mutual understanding of each Party’s 
standards, technical regulations, and conformity 
assessment procedures; 
 
133 
 (c)    strengthening information exchange among the 
Parties on standards, technical regulations, and 
conformity assessment procedures; 
 
(d)   strengthening co-operation among the Parties in 
the  work  of  international  bodies  related  to 
standardisation  and  conformity  assessments; 
and 
 
(e)   providing a framework to implement supporting 
mechanisms to realise these objectives. 
  
Article 3 
 
Scope 
 
1.   For the mutual benefit of the Parties, this Chapter 
applies  to  all  standards,  technical  regulations,  and 
conformity assessment procedures of the Parties that 
may affect trade in goods among the Parties except: 
 
(a)   purchasing  specifications  prepared  by 
governmental  bodies  for  the  production  or 
consumption  requirements  of  such  bodies; 
and 
 
(b)   sanitary  or  phytosanitary  measures  as 
defined in paragraph 1 of Annex A of the SPS 
Agreement, which are covered by Chapter 5 
(Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures). 
 
2.   Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the right of a 
Party to prepare, adopt and apply, in accordance with 
its rights and obligations under the TBT Agreement, 
standards,  technical  regulations,  and  conformity 
assessment procedures to the extent necessary to fulfil 
a legitimate objective.  Such legitimate objectives are, 
inter  alia,  national  security  requirements,  the 
134 
 prevention of deceptive practices, and the protection of 
human health or safety, animal or plant life or health, 
or the environment. 
 
Article 4 
 
Affirmation of the TBT Agreement 
 
1.   Each Party affirms its rights and obligations with 
respect to another Party under the TBT Agreement. 
 
2.   In the implementation of this Chapter, each Party 
shall  take  such  reasonable  measures  as  may  be 
available  to  it  to  ensure  compliance  by  local 
government  and  non-governmental  bodies,  where 
applicable, within its Area, which are responsible for 
the preparation, adoption and application of standards, 
technical  regulations,  and  conformity  assessment 
procedures.  
 
Article 5 
 
Standards 
 
1.  With  respect  to  the  preparation,  adoption  and 
application of standards, each Party shall ensure that 
its  central  government  standardising  bodies  accept 
and comply with Annex 3 of the TBT Agreement.  Each 
Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be 
available  to  it  to  ensure  other  standardising  bodies 
within its Area accept and comply with Annex 3 of the 
TBT Agreement. 
 
2.  Each  Party  shall  encourage  the  standardising 
body or bodies, where applicable, in its Area to co-
operate with the standardising body or bodies of the 
other Parties.  Such co-operation shall include: 
 
135 
 (a)  exchange of information on standards; 
 
(b)  exchange of information relating to standard 
setting procedures; and 
 
(c)  co-operation  in  the  work  of  international 
standardising  bodies  in  areas  of  mutual 
interest. 
 
Article 6 
 
Technical Regulations 
 
1.  Where relevant international standards exist or 
their  completion  is  imminent,  each  Party  shall  use 
them,  or  relevant  parts  of  them,  as  a  basis  for  its 
technical regulations except when such international 
standards or relevant parts would be an ineffective or 
inappropriate means for the fulfilment of the legitimate 
objectives  pursued,  for  instance  because  of 
fundamental  climatic  or  geographical  factors  or 
fundamental technological problems. 
 
2.  Each Party shall give positive consideration to 
accepting  as  equivalent  technical  regulations  of 
another Party, even if these regulations differ from its 
own,  provided  it  is  satisfied  that  these  regulations 
adequately fulfil the objectives of its own regulations. 
 
3.   Where  a  Party  does  not  accept  a  technical 
regulation of another Party as equivalent to its own, it 
shall,  upon  request  of  that  other  Party,  explain  the 
reasons for its decision. 
 
   
136 
 Article 7 
 
Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1.    Each Party shall give positive consideration to 
accepting  the  results  of  conformity  assessment 
procedures  of  another  Party,  even  when  those 
procedures differ from its own, provided it is satisfied 
that those procedures offer an assurance of conformity 
with  applicable  technical  regulations  or  standards 
equivalent to its own procedures.  
 
2.   Each Party shall facilitate the acceptance of the 
results  of  conformity  assessment  procedures 
conducted in the Area of another Party with a view to 
increasing  efficiency,  avoiding  duplication,  and 
ensuring  cost  effectiveness  of  the  conformity 
assessments.  In this regard, each Party may choose, 
depending on the situation of the Party and the specific 
sectors involved, a broad range of approaches.  These 
may include: 
 
(a)  recognition  by  a  Party  of  the  results  of 
conformity assessments performed in the 
Area of another Party; 
 
(b)  recognition  of  co-operative  arrangements 
between accreditation bodies in the Areas 
of the Parties; 
 
(c)  mutual  recognition  of  conformity 
assessment  procedures  conducted  by 
bodies located in the Area of each Party; 
 
(d)  accreditation  of  conformity  assessment 
bodies in the Area of another Party; 
 
137 
 (e)  use of existing regional and international 
multilateral  recognition  agreements  and 
arrangements; 
 
(f)  designating conformity assessment bodies 
located  in  the  Area  of  another  Party  to 
perform conformity assessment; and 
 
(g)  suppliers’ declaration of conformity, where 
applicable. 
 
3.   Each  Party  shall  exchange  information  with 
another Party on its experience in the development and 
application of the approaches set out in subparagraphs 
2 (a) to (g) and other appropriate approaches with a 
view  to  facilitating  the  acceptance  of  the  results  of 
conformity assessment procedures. 
 
4.   A  Party  shall,  upon  request  of  another  Party, 
explain its reasons for not accepting the results of any 
conformity  assessment  procedure  performed  in  the 
Area of the requesting Party.  
 
Article 8 
 
Co-operation 
 
1.   The  Parties  shall  co-operate  in  the  field  of 
standards,  technical  regulations,  and  conformity 
assessment  procedures  with  a  view  to  facilitating 
access to each other’s markets. 
 
2.   A Party shall, upon request of another Party, give 
positive consideration to proposals on co-operation in 
the  field  of  standards,  technical  regulations,  and 
conformity  assessment  procedures.    Such  co-
operation, which shall be on mutually determined terms 
and conditions, may include: 
138 
 (a)   advice or technical assistance relating to the 
development  and  application  of  standards, 
technical  regulations,  and  conformity 
assessment procedures; 
 
(b)   co-operation between conformity assessment 
bodies,  both  governmental  and  non-
governmental,  in  the  Area  of  each  of  the 
Parties such as: 
 
(i)   use of accreditation to qualify conformity 
assessment bodies; and 
 
(ii)   enhancing  infrastructure  in  calibration, 
testing,  inspection,  certification  and 
accreditation  to  meet  relevant 
international  standards, 
recommendations and guidelines; 
 
(c)  co-operation in areas of mutual interest in the 
work  of  relevant  regional  and  international 
bodies  relating  to  the  development  and 
application  of  standards  and  conformity 
assessment  procedures  such  as  enhancing 
participation  in  the  existing  frameworks  for 
mutual  recognition  developed  by  relevant 
regional and international bodies; and 
 
(d)  enhancing  co-operation  in  the  development 
and improvement of technical regulations and 
conformity assessment procedures such as: 
 
(i)  co-operation  in  the  development  and 
promotion of good regulatory practice; 
 
(ii)   transparency, including ways to promote 
improved  access  to  information  on 
139 
 standards,  technical  regulations,  and 
conformity assessment procedures; and 
 
(iii)   management of risks relating to health, 
safety,  the  environment  and  deceptive 
practices. 
 
3.   A Party shall, upon request of another Party, give 
positive consideration to a sector-specific proposal that 
the  requesting  Party  makes  for  further  co-operation 
under this  Chapter.   Such co-operation  shall  be  on 
mutually determined terms and conditions. 
 
Article 9 
 
Consultations  
 
1.   Consultations on any matter arising under this 
Chapter shall be held at the request of a Party which 
considers  that  another  Party  has  taken  a  measure 
which is likely to create, or has created, an obstacle to 
trade.  Such consultations shall take place within 60 
days from the request with the objective of finding a 
mutually acceptable solution.  Such consultations may 
be conducted by any means agreed by the Parties. 
 
2.   Where  a  matter  covered  under  this  Chapter 
cannot be clarified or resolved through consultations, 
the Parties concerned may establish an ad hoc working 
group  with  a  view  to  identifying  a  workable  and 
practical solution to facilitate trade.  The ad hoc working 
group  shall  comprise  representatives  of  the  Parties 
concerned. 
 
3.     Where a Party declines a request from another 
Party to establish an ad hoc working group referred to 
in paragraph 2, it shall, upon request of the requesting 
Party, explain the reasons for its decision.  
140 
  
4.   Where  an  imported  consignment  does  not 
comply  with  the  technical  regulations  or  conformity 
assessment  procedures  of  the  importing  Party,  the 
Parties concerned shall undertake the necessary steps 
to address the non-compliance without undue delay. 
 
5.   Any action taken pursuant to this Article shall be 
without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the 
Parties under Chapter 13 (Consultations and Dispute 
Settlement)  or  under  the  WTO  Dispute  Settlement 
Understanding. 
 
Article 10 
 
Agreements or Arrangements 
 
1.  The Parties shall seek to identify trade-facilitating 
initiatives regarding standards, technical regulations, 
and  conformity  assessment  procedures  that  are 
appropriate for particular issues or sectors. 
 
2.  Such  trade-facilitating  initiatives  may  include 
agreements  or  arrangements  on  regulatory  issues, 
such  as  alignment  of  standards,  convergence  or 
equivalence  of  technical  regulations,  conformity 
assessment procedures and compliance issues. 
 
3.  Parties to an existing agreement or arrangement 
shall, upon request of another Party, give consideration 
to extending such an agreement or arrangement to the 
requesting Party.  Such consideration may be subject 
to appropriate confidence building processes including 
information exchange, co-operation, consultations and 
training to ensure equivalence of relevant standards, 
technical  regulations,  or  conformity  assessment 
procedures. 
 
141 
 4.  Where  a  Party  declines  a  request  of  another 
Party  to  consider  extending  the  application  of  an 
existing  agreement  or  arrangement  referred  to  in 
paragraph 3, it shall, upon request of the requesting 
Party, explain the reasons for its decision.  
 
Article 11 
 
Transparency 
 
1.   Each Party affirms its commitment to ensuring 
that information regarding proposed new or amended 
standards,  technical  regulations,  and  conformity 
assessment  procedures  is  made  available  in 
accordance with the relevant requirements of the TBT 
Agreement. 
 
2.   Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  the  information 
relating  to  standards,  technical  regulations,  and 
conformity  assessment  procedures  is  published  in 
accordance with the relevant requirements of the TBT 
Agreement.    Such  information  should  be  made 
available  in  printed  form  and,  where  possible,  in 
electronic form. 
 
3.    In connection with the notification requirements 
under Article 2 and Article 5 of the TBT Agreement, 
each Party shall allow at least 60 days for any other 
Party  to  present  comments  on  proposed  technical 
regulations  or  conformity  assessment  procedures 
except  where  urgent  problems  of  safety,  health, 
environmental protection or national security arise, or 
threaten to arise, for that Party. 
 
4.    Each Party shall take into due consideration the 
comments of any other Party presented pursuant to 
paragraph 3 and shall endeavour to provide responses 
to these comments upon request.  
142 
  
Article 12 
 
Contact Points 
 
1.    Each  Party  shall  designate  a  contact  point  or 
contact  points  which  shall,  for  that  Party,  have 
responsibility  for  coordinating  the  implementation  of 
this Chapter. 
 
2.    Each Party shall provide the other Parties with 
the name of each designated contact point and the 
contact  details  of  the  relevant  official  or  officials, 
including  telephone,  facsimile,  email  and  any  other 
relevant details. 
 
3.    A Party shall notify the other Parties promptly of 
any change of its contact point or contact points or any 
amendments to the details of the relevant officials.  
 
4.    Each Party shall ensure that its contact point or 
contact points  facilitate the  exchange  of  information 
among the Parties on standards, technical regulations, 
and conformity assessment procedures, in response to 
all  reasonable  requests  for such  information from  a 
Party. 
 
   
143 
 Article 13 
 
Sub-Committee on Standards, Technical 
Regulations and Conformity Assessment 
Procedures 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish a Sub-Committee on 
Standards,  Technical  Regulations  and  Conformity 
Assessment  Procedures  (the  “STRACAP  Sub-
Committee”),  consisting  of  representatives  of  the 
Parties, to  promote  and  monitor the  implementation 
and administration of this Chapter, including monitoring 
consultations  conducted  pursuant  to  Article  9 
(Consultations). 
 
2.    The  STRACAP  Sub-Committee  shall  meet  as 
mutually determined by the Parties.  Meetings may be 
conducted  in  person,  or  by  any  other  means  as 
mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
3.    The STRACAP Sub-Committee shall determine 
its terms of reference in accordance with this Chapter. 
 
4.    The STRACAP Sub-Committee shall determine 
its  work  programme  in  response  to  priorities  as 
identified and agreed by the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
144 
 