 
 
 
CHAPTER 4 
 
CUSTOMS 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.1: SCOPE 
 
  This Chapter shall apply, in accordance with the Parties’ respective national laws, 
rules and regulations, to customs procedures required for clearance of goods traded 
between the Parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.2: TRANSPARENCY 
 
1.  The Parties shall promptly publish or otherwise make publicly available their 
laws,  regulations,  administrative  procedures  and  administrative  rulings  of  general 
application on respective customs matters that pertain to or affect the operation of this 
Chapter, so as to enable interested persons and parties to become acquainted with them. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Article or in any part of this Chapter shall require any Party to 
publish law enforcement procedures and internal operational guidelines including those 
related to conducting risk analysis and targeting methodologies. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.3: RISK MANAGEMENT 
 
1.  A Party shall adopt the risk management approach in its customs activities based 
on  its  identified  risk  of  goods  in  order  to  facilitate  the  clearance  of  low  risk 
consignments, while focusing its inspection activities on high-risk goods. Accordingly, 
each Party undertakes that customs compliance activities at the time of entry shall not 
normally exceed 5 per cent of total customs transactions. 
 
2.  The Parties shall apply and further develop risk management techniques in the 
performance of their customs compliance activities. 
 
3.  The Parties shall exchange information on risk management techniques in the 
performance of their customs procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.4: PAPERLESS TRADING 
 
1.  Recognising  that  trading  using  electronic  filing  and  transfer  of  trade-related 
information  and  electronic  versions  of  documents,  as  an  alternative  to  paper-based 
methods will significantly enhance the efficiency of trade through reduction of cost and 
time,  the  Parties  shall  co-operate  with  a  view  to  realising  and  promoting  paperless 
trading  between  their  respective  customs  administrations  and  its  respective  trading 
community. 
 
  25  
 
2.  The Parties shall exchange views and information on realizing, promoting and 
developments in paperless trading. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.5: DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT 
 
1.  The importing Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good for which an 
importer in its territory claims preferential tariff treatment where the good does not meet 
the requirements of Chapter 3 or where the importer fails to comply with any of the 
relevant requirements of Chapter 3. 
 
2.  Where the denial of preferential treatment is due to the signature that appears in 
the Certificate of Origin, the Importing Party may accept a clarification letter from the 
exporting Party confirming the authenticity of Certificate of Origin.  Such clarification 
letter may be issued directly from the exporting Party to the importing Party or through 
the exporter of the good. 
 
3.  Export of consignments accompanied by an authentic Certificate of Origin will 
not be subjected to any detention or delays by the Customs Authorities of the importing 
country. 
 
4.  In case of reasonable doubt about the authenticity of a Certificate of Origin, the 
Customs Authority of the importing country may seek a clarification from the certifying 
agency of the exporting country which will furnish the same within a period of 30 days.  
Meanwhile, the subject consignment will be allowed entry into the importing country on 
a provisional basis against a bond or a guarantee i.e. a legally binding undertaking as 
may  be  required.    After  examining  the  information  so  provided  by  the  certifying 
authority, the Customs Authority in the importing country would take appropriate action 
to finalise the provisional assessment. 
 
5.  Where the clarification carried on in paragraph 4 is not conclusive, the importing 
Party may, upon informing the exporting Party and with the knowledge of the importer 
concerned and with the consent of the exporter or manufacturer concerned, visit the 
exporter or manufacturer concerned for the purpose of verifying the preference claim.  If 
no consent is given by the exporter or manufacturer concerned within a period of 45 
days, the importing party may disallow the tariff preference for the particular Certificate 
of Origin.  
 
 
ARTICLE 4.6: VERIFICATION OF CERTIFICATES OF ORIGIN 
 
1.  The Parties shall co-operate with each other to verify the authenticity and the 
correctness of the information given in the certificates of origin.  
 
2.  For the purpose of implementing the provisions of paragraph 1, the customs 
administration of the importing Party shall return the certificate of origin, or a copy of 
the document, to the customs authority of the exporting Party, giving the reason for the 
enquiry. Any document and/or information obtained suggesting that the information 
given on the certificate of origin is incorrect shall be forwarded in support of the request 
for verification. 
  26  
 
 
3.  The verification shall be carried out by the customs authorities of the exporting 
Party. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.7: ADVANCE RULINGS 
 
  The Parties shall apply Advance Rulings in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 3.13.  
 
 
ARTICLE 4.8: SHARING OF BEST PRACTICES 
 
1.  The Customs Administrations of both Parties shall endeavor to use their best 
efforts  to  provide  each  other  technical  advice  for  the  purpose  of  improving  risk 
assessment techniques, simplifying and expediting customs procedures and enhancing 
customs clearance. 
 
2.  The  Customs  Administrations  of  both  Parties  shall  endeavor,  within  their 
respective available resources, to actively encourage exchange of information on best 
practices on customs procedures and techniques with the aim of enhancing each other's 
capacity.   
 
 
ARTICLE 4.9: CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
  Nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  require  a  Party  to  provide  or  allow  access  to 
information: 
 
(a)  the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement or otherwise be 
contrary to the public interest; or 
 
(b)  the  disclosure  of  which  would  prejudice  the  legitimate  commercial 
interest of a particular enterprise, public or private. 
  27 