ANNEX 7 D 
 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES 
 
 
ARTICLE 1:  SCOPE  
 
1.1  This  Annex  shall  apply  to  measures  affecting  trade  in  telecommunications 
services.  
 
1.2  This Annex shall apply subject to rules, regulations and licence conditions, as 
applicable  within  the  territory  of  each  Party,  within  the  framework  of  the 
provisions of Article 7.10. 
 
1.3  This Annex shall not apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating 
to broadcasting services as defined in each Party’s laws and regulations.  
 
1.4  Nothing in this Annex shall be construed:  
 
(a)  to require a Party to authorise a service supplier of the other Party to 
establish, construct, acquire, lease, operate, or supply telecommunications 
transport networks or services, other than as provided for in its Schedule; 
or  
 
(b)   to require a Party (or to require a Party to oblige service suppliers in its 
territory)  to  establish,  construct,  acquire,  lease,  operate  or  supply 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services  not  offered  to  the 
public generally.  
 
 
ARTICLE 2:  ACCESS  TO  AND  USE  OF  PUBLIC  TELECOMMUNICATIONS  TRANSPORT 
NETWORKS AND SERVICES  
 
2.1  Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party is accorded access 
to  and  use  of  public  telecommunications  transport  networks  and  services  on 
  538 reasonable  and  non-discriminatory  terms  and  conditions,  for  the  supply  of  a 
service  included  in  its  Schedule.  This  obligation  shall  be  applied,  inter  alia, 
through Articles 2.2 through 2.6. 
 
2.2  Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party have access to and 
use of any public telecommunications transport networks and services offered in 
its territory, through its licensed suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services, within or across the border of that Party, including private 
leased circuits, and to this end shall ensure, subject to Articles 2.5 and 2.6, that 
such service suppliers are permitted: 
 
(a)  to  purchase  or  lease  and  attach  terminal  or  other  equipment  which 
interfaces  with  the  public  telecommunications  transport  network  and 
services and which is necessary to supply a service supplier's services;  
 
(b)  to  interconnect  private  leased  or  owned  circuits  with  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  and  services  or  with  circuits 
leased or owned by another service supplier; and  
 
(c)  to use operating protocols of the service supplier's choice in the supply of 
any  service,  other  than  as  necessary  to  ensure  the  availability  of 
telecommunications  transport  networks  and  services  to  the  public 
generally.  
 
2.3  Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party may use public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  and  services  for  the  movement  of 
information within its territory and across borders, including for intra-corporate 
communications  of  such  service  suppliers,  and  for  access  to  information 
contained in data bases or otherwise stored in machine-readable form in the 
territory of the Party. Any new or amended measures of a Party significantly 
affecting  such  use  shall  be  notified  and  shall  be  subject  to  consultation,  in 
accordance with relevant provisions of the Agreement. 
 
2.4  Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a Party may take such measures as are 
necessary to ensure the security and confidentiality of messages, subject to the 
requirement  that  such  measures  are  not  applied  in  a  manner  which  would 
  539 constitute  a  means  of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable  discrimination  or  a  disguised 
restriction on trade in services. 
 
2.5  Each Party shall ensure that no condition is imposed on access to and use of 
public  telecommunications  transport  networks  and  services  other  than  as 
necessary: 
 
(a)  to  safeguard  the  public  service  responsibilities  of  suppliers  of  public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services,  in  particular  their 
ability  to  make  their  networks  or  services  available  to  the  public 
generally;  
 
(b)  to protect the technical integrity of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services; or 
 
(c)  to ensure that service suppliers of the other Party do not supply services 
unless permitted pursuant to commitments in the first Party’s Schedule. 
 
2.6  Provided that they satisfy the criteria set out in Article 2.5, conditions for access to 
and use of public telecommunications transport networks and services may include: 
 
(a)  restrictions on resale or shared use of public telephone services; 
 
(b)  a requirement to use specified technical interfaces, including interface 
protocols, for the interconnection with such networks and services;  
 
(c)  requirements, where necessary, for the inter-operability of such services;  
 
(d)  type approval of terminal or other equipment which interfaces with the 
network and technical requirements relating to the attachment of such 
equipment to such networks;  
 
(e)  restrictions on interconnection of private leased or owned circuits with 
such networks or services or with circuits leased or owned by another 
service supplier; or 
 
  540 (f)  notification, registration and licensing.  
 
2.7  Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, each Party may, consistent with its 
level of development, place reasonable conditions on access to and use of public 
telecommunications transport networks and services necessary to strengthen its 
domestic telecommunications infrastructure and service capacity and to increase 
its  participation  in  international  trade  in  telecommunications  services.  Such 
conditions shall be specified in each Party’s Schedule. 
 
ARTICLE 3:   ACCESS TO MAJOR SUPPLIERS’ INFRASTRUCTURE 
 
3.1  Each  Party  shall  endeavour  to  require  the  major  suppliers  in  its  territory  to 
provide suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or services of 
the other Party,  
 
(a)  access  to  the  major  suppliers’  unbundled  network  elements  for 
interconnection  or  for  the  provision  of  public  telecommunications 
transport networks or services, 
 
  (b)  physical co-location of equipment necessary for interconnection or access 
to unbundled network elements, at premises owned or controlled by the 
major suppliers, and 
 
  (c)  access to poles, ducts, conduits or any other structures deemed necessary 
by the Party, which are owned or controlled by such major suppliers,   
 
  on  terms,  conditions,  and  rates  that  are  reasonable,  transparent  and  non-
discriminatory, subject to mutually agreed terms and conditions within the overall 
policy framework of that Party. 
 
3.2   Implementation of Article 3.1 shall be determined by each Party, depending upon 
the state of market conditions in the relevant markets as assessed by the Party in 
its territory.  
 
  541 3.3   Nothing in the preceding paragraphs of this Article shall prevent either Party from 
allowing its major suppliers to take reasonable steps to protect the security of their 
networks. 
 
ARTICLE 4:  COMPETITIVE SAFEGUARDS 
 
Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications 
 
4.1  Each Party shall, through the relevant authority, maintain appropriate measures 
for the purpose of preventing suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices. 
 
Safeguards 
 
4.2  For the purposes of Article 4.1, anti-competitive practices shall include: 
 
(a)   using information obtained from competitors for anti-competitive results; 
and 
 
(b)   not making available to suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks  or  services,  on  a  timely  basis,  technical  information  about 
essential  facilities  and  commercially  relevant  information  which  are 
necessary  for  them  to  provide  public  telecommunications  transport 
networks or services. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5:  INTERCONNECTION 
 
5.1  Each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services in its territory provide interconnection with the facilities and 
equipment  of  suppliers  of  public  telecommunications  transport  networks  or 
services of the other Party, subject to terms and conditions specified by each 
Party’s telecommunications regulatory / licensing body from time to time. 
 
  542 5.2  Each  Party  shall  ensure  that  a  major  supplier  in  its  territory  provides 
interconnection for suppliers of public telecommunications transport networks or 
services of the other Party at any specified technical and commercially feasible 
point, specified by the telecommunications regulatory / licensing body, in the 
major  supplier’s  network,  or  in  the  case  of  points  not  specified  by  the 
telecommunications regulatory / licensing body, as per mutual agreement. Such 
interconnection is provided: 
 
(a)  under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards 
and specifications) and rates7D-1 and of a quality no less favourable than 
that provided for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated 
suppliers  of public telecommunications transport networks or services or 
for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
 
(b)  in a timely manner7D-2; and  
 
(c)  upon  request,  at  points  in  addition  to  the  network  termination  points 
offered to the majority of suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services, subject to technical and commercial feasibility and 
mutually agreed terms and conditions. 
 
 
Options for interconnecting with major suppliers 
 
5.3  Each Party shall endeavour that suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks  or services of  the other Party  may interconnect  their  facilities and 
equipment with those of major suppliers in its territory on the basis of:  
 
(a)  a  reference  interconnection  offer  containing  the  rates,  terms,  and 
conditions that the major supplier offers generally to suppliers of public 
telecommunications transport networks or services, as amended from time 
to time;  
                                                 
7D-1 The Parties understand that interconnection rates are commercially negotiated between suppliers of 
public telecommunications networks or services. 
 
7D-2 The Parties understand that timeliness may vary from case to case, depending upon the complexity of 
each interconnection negotiation, which may be affected by a range of factors. 
  543  
(b)  the terms and conditions of an existing interconnection agreement; or 
 
(c)  through negotiation of a new interconnection agreement. 
 
Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations 
 
5.4  Each  Party  shall  make  publicly  available  the  applicable  procedures  for 
interconnection with major suppliers in its territory.  
 
Public availability of interconnection arrangements  
 
5.5  Each Party shall ensure that a major supplier will make publicly available either its 
interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer. 
 
5.6  Each Party shall require major suppliers in its territory to file all interconnection 
agreements to which they are a party with its telecommunications regulatory body. 
 
5.7  Each Party shall endeavour to make available for inspection to suppliers of public 
telecommunications  transport  networks  or  services  which  are  seeking 
interconnection, interconnection agreements in force between a major supplier in 
its  territory  and  any  other  supplier  of  public  telecommunications  transport 
networks  or  services  in  such  territory,  including  interconnection  agreements 
concluded between a major supplier and its affiliates and subsidiaries, subject to 
any requirement which the telecommunications regulatory body may impose to 
protect  the  commercial  confidentiality  of  information  contained  in  these  
interconnection agreements. 
 
Resolution of interconnection disputes 
 
5.8  A supplier of public telecommunications transport networks or services of the 
other  Party  requesting  interconnection  with  a  major  supplier  in  the  Party’s 
territory will have recourse, either: 
  
(a)  at any time, or 
 
  544 (b)  after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known 
 
to an independent domestic body, which may be a telecommunications regulatory 
/ dispute resolution body, as referred to in Article 8 below, to resolve disputes 
regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a 
reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established 
previously.  
 
ARTICLE 6:  UNIVERSAL SERVICE 
 
6.1  Each Party retains the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it 
wishes to maintain. Such obligations are not regarded as anti-competitive per se, 
since they would be administered in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. 
 
ARTICLE 7:   LICENSING CONDITIONS 
 
7.1  Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available: 
 
(a)  all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach 
a decision concerning an application for a licence and  
 
(b)  the terms and conditions of individual licences. 
 
7.2  In case of denial of licence, the reasons for denial, on applicants’ request, shall 
normally be given by each Party within a reasonable period of time.  
 
ARTICLE 8:  INDEPENDENT REGULATORY AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION BODIES  
 
8.1  The telecommunications regulatory / dispute resolution body is separate from, and 
not accountable to, any supplier of public telecommunications transport networks 
or services. The decisions of, and the procedures used by its telecommunications 
regulatory / dispute resolution body, are impartial with respect to all suppliers of 
public telecommunications transport networks or services.  
 
 
 
  545 ARTICLE 9:  ALLOCATION AND USE OF SCARCE RESOURCES 
 
9.1  Any  procedures  for  the  allocation  and  use  of  scarce  resources,  including 
frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will  be carried out in an objective, 
timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The current state of allocated 
frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of 
frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.  
 
ARTICLE 10:   DISPUTE SETTLEMENT AND APPEAL 
 
Recourse 
 
10.1   Each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public telecommunications transport 
networks  or  services  of  the  other  Party  have  timely  recourse  to  a  relevant 
telecommunications body to resolve disputes arising under domestic measures 
addressing a matter set out in this Annex. 
 
Reconsideration 
 
10.2  Each Party shall ensure that any supplier of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services aggrieved by the determination or decision of the relevant 
telecommunications  body  may  petition  that  body  for  reconsideration  of  that 
determination or decision. Neither Party may permit such a petition to constitute 
grounds for non-compliance with such determination or decision of the said body 
unless an appropriate authority stays such determination or decision. 
 
Appeal  
 
10.3  Each Party shall ensure that any supplier of public telecommunications transport 
networks or services aggrieved by a determination or decision of the relevant 
telecommunications body has the opportunity to appeal such determination or 
decision to an independent judicial or administrative authority.  
 
 
 
 
  546 ARTICLE 11:  TRANSPARENCY 
 
11.1  Further to the Services and Investment Chapters (Transparency Articles), each 
Party shall ensure that: 
 
 (a)  decisions  of  its  telecommunications  regulatory  body,  are  promptly 
published or otherwise made available to all interested suppliers of public 
telecommunications networks or services; and 
  
(b)  its measures relating to public telecommunications networks or services 
are made publicly available, including: 
 
(i)  tariffs and other terms and conditions of service;  
 
(ii)  specifications of technical interfaces;  
 
(iii)  information on bodies responsible for the preparation, amendment 
and adoption of standards affecting such access and use;  
 
(iv)  conditions applying to attachment of terminal or other equipment 
to the public telecommunications transport network or services; 
and  
 
(v)  notification, permit, registration or licensing requirements, if any. 
 
ARTICLE 12:   FLEXIBILITY IN CHOICE OF TECHNOLOGIES 
 
12.1  Parties  recognise  the  importance  of  international  standards  for  global 
compatibility and inter-operability of telecommunications networks and services 
and  undertake  to  promote  such  standards  through  the  work  of  relevant 
international bodies, including the International Telecommunication Union and 
the International Organisation for Standardisation. 
 
12.2  A  Party  shall  not  prevent  suppliers  of  public  telecommunications  transport 
networks or services from having the flexibility to choose the technologies that 
  547 they  use  to  supply  their  services,  subject  to  satisfying  inter-operability 
requirements and licensing conditions. 
 
ARTICLE 13:   RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CHAPTERS 
 
13.1  In the event of inconsistency between this Annex and another Chapter, this Annex 
shall prevail to the extent of such inconsistency. 
 
ARTICLE 14:  DEFINITIONS  
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
1.  Essential  facilities  mean  facilities  of  a  public  telecommunications  transport 
network or service that 
 
(a)  are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number 
of suppliers; and 
 
(b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically  substituted in order to 
provide a service. 
 
2.  Interconnection  means  linking  with  suppliers  providing  public 
telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of 
one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and to access services 
provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken. 
 
3.  Intra-corporate communications means telecommunications through which a 
company communicates within the company or with or among its subsidiaries, 
branches and, subject to a Party's domestic laws and regulations, affiliates. For 
these purposes, “subsidiaries”, “branches” and, where applicable, “affiliates” shall 
be as defined by each Party. “Intra-corporate communications” in this Annex 
excludes commercial or non-commercial services that are supplied to companies 
that are not related subsidiaries, branches or affiliates, or that are offered to 
customers or potential customers. 
 
  548 4.  Major  supplier  means  a  supplier  of  public  telecommunications  transport 
networks  or  services  which  has  the  ability  to  materially  affect  the  terms  of 
participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for public 
telecommunications transport networks or services as a result of: 
 
(a)  control over essential facilities; or 
 
(b)  use of its position in the market. 
 
5.  Network element means facilities or equipment used in the provision of a public 
telecommunications transport network or service, including features, functions, 
and capabilities that are provided by means of such facilities or equipment. 
 
6.  Non-discriminatory means treatment no less favorable than that accorded to any 
other user of like public telecommunications transport networks or services in like 
circumstances. 
 
7.  Public  telecommunications  transport  network  means  the  public 
telecommunications  infrastructure  which  permits  telecommunications  between 
and among defined network termination points. 
 
8.  Public telecommunications transport service means any telecommunications 
transport service required, explicitly or in effect, by a Party to be offered to the 
public generally. Such services may include, inter alia, telegraph, telephone, telex, 
and data transmission typically involving the real-time transmission of customer-
supplied information between two or more points without any end-to-end change 
in the form or content of the customer's information. 
 
9.  Reference interconnection offer means an interconnection offer extended by a 
major supplier and filed with or approved by a telecommunications regulatory 
body specifying rates, terms, and conditions.  
 
10.  Supplier of public telecommunications transport networks or services means 
any  provider  of  public  telecommunications  transport  networks  and/or  public 
telecommunications  transport  services,  including  those  who  provide  such 
  549 networks  and/or  services  to  other  suppliers  of  public  telecommunications 
transport networks and/or services. 
 
11.  Telecommunications means the transmission and reception of signals by any 
electromagnetic means. 
 
12.  Telecommunications dispute resolution body means any Federal or State body 
responsible for the dispute resolution of telecommunications. 
 
13.  Telecommunications  licensing  body  means  any  Federal  or  State  body 
responsible for the licensing of telecommunications. 
 
14.  Telecommunications  regulatory  body  means  any  Federal  or  State  body 
responsible for the regulation of telecommunications. 
 
15.  Users means service consumers and service suppliers. 
 
  550 