Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
CHAPTER 5 
TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
   
Article 5.1 
Objectives 
 
The objective of this Chapter is to facilitate and increase trade in goods between the Parties, 
by providing a framework to prevent, identify and eliminate unnecessary barriers to trade 
within the scope of the TBT Agreement.  
 
Article 5.2 
Scope and Definitions 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of all standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures as defined in Annex 1 of 
the TBT Agreement, which may, directly or indirectly, affect trade in goods between 
the Parties, regardless of the origin of those goods. 
 
2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, this Chapter shall not apply to:   
 
(a)  purchasing specifications prepared by governmental bodies for production or 
consumption requirements of such bodies; or  
 
(b)  sanitary  and  phytosanitary  measures  as  defined  in  Annex  A  of  the  SPS 
Agreement  which  are  covered  by  Chapter  4  (Sanitary  and  Phytosanitary 
Measures).   
 
3.  For the purposes of this Chapter, the definitions of Annex 1 to the TBT Agreement 
shall apply. 
 
Article 5.3 
Affirmation of the TBT Agreement 
 
The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other under the 
TBT  Agreement  which  is  incorporated  into  and  made  part  of  this  Agreement,  mutatis 
mutandis.  
 
Article 5.4 
Joint Cooperation  
 
1.   The Parties shall strengthen their  cooperation in the field of standards, technical 
regulations  and  conformity  assessment  procedures  with  a  view  to  increasing  the 
mutual  understanding  of  their  respective  systems  and  facilitating  access  to  their 
respective markets.  
 
2.  The Parties shall seek to identify, develop and promote trade facilitating initiatives 
which may include, but are not limited to:   
5-1 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
 
(a)  exchanging information and experiences on the preparation and application of 
their technical regulations and the use of good regulatory practice;   
 
(b)  where appropriate, simplifying technical regulations, standards and conformity 
assessment procedures;   
 
(c)  avoiding unnecessary divergence in their approaches to technical regulations 
and conformity assessment procedures, and working towards the possibility of 
converging or aligning technical regulations with international standards; 
 
(d)  encouraging cooperation between their respective bodies, public or private, 
responsible  for  metrology,  standardisation,  testing,  certification  and 
accreditation; 
 
(e)  ensuring efficient interaction of regulatory authorities at national, regional and 
international levels, for instance, by referring enquiries from a Party to the 
appropriate regulatory authorities; and 
 
(f)  exchanging information on developments in relevant regional and multilateral 
fora related to  standards, technical regulations and conformity  assessment 
procedures. 
 
3.      The Parties shall promote bilateral cooperation between their respective institutions in 
the field of halal standards and certification. 
 
4.  Upon request, a Party shall give appropriate consideration to proposals that the other 
Party makes for cooperation under the terms of this Chapter. 
 
Article 5.5 
International Standards  
 
1.  In accordance with Articles 2.4 and 5.4 of the TBT Agreement, the Parties shall use 
international standards, or relevant parts of international standards, as a basis for their 
technical regulations and related conformity assessment procedures where relevant 
international  standards  exist  or  their  completion  is  imminent,  except  when  such 
international standards or their relevant parts are ineffective or inappropriate to fulfil 
legitimate objectives.  
 
2.  In determining whether an international standard, guide, or recommendation within 
the meaning of Articles 2, 5 and Annex 3 of the TBT Agreement exists, each Party 
shall apply the principles set out in the Decision of the Committee on Principles for 
the  Development  of  International  Standards,  Guides  and  Recommendations  with 
relation  to  Articles  2,  5  and  Annex  3  of  the  Agreement,  adopted  by  the  WTO 
Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade, G/TBT/1/rev.12, 21 January 2015 and the 
subsequent revisions.  
 
5-2 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
3.  The Parties affirm their obligations under Article 4.1 of the TBT Agreement to ensure 
that their standardising bodies accept and comply with the Code of Good Practice for 
the Preparation, Adoption and Application of Standards in Annex 3 to the TBT 
Agreement.  
 
4.  The Parties shall cooperate with each other, where appropriate, in the context of their 
participation  in  international  standardising  bodies  to  ensure  that  international 
standards developed within such bodies that are likely to become a basis for technical 
regulations  are  trade  facilitating  and  do  not  create  unnecessary  obstacles  to 
international trade.  
   
5.  The Parties undertake to exchange information on:  
 
(a)   their use of standards in support of technical regulations;  
 
(b)   each other’s standardisation processes, and the extent of use of international 
standards or regional standards as a base for their national standards; and  
 
(c)   cooperation  agreements  implemented  by  either  Party  on  standardisation, 
provided the information can be made available to the public. 
 
Article 5.6 
Technical Regulations  
 
The Parties agree to make best use of good regulatory practice with regard to the preparation, 
adoption and application of technical regulations, as provided for in the TBT Agreement, 
including:  
 
(a)  when developing a technical regulation, to consider, inter alia, the impact of 
the  envisaged  technical  regulation  and  the  available  regulatory  and  non-
regulatory alternatives to the proposed technical regulation which may fulfil 
the Party’s legitimate objectives; 
 
(b)  consistent with Article 2.4 of the TBT Agreement, to use, to the maximum 
extent possible, relevant international standards as a basis for their technical 
regulations, except when such international standards would be an ineffective 
or inappropriate means for the fulfilment of the legitimate objectives pursued; 
where international standards have not been used as a basis, to explain upon 
request  to  the  other  Party  the  reasons  why  such  standards  have  been 
considered inappropriate or ineffective for the aim pursued; and 
 
(c)  consistent with Article 2.8 of the TBT Agreement, wherever appropriate, to 
specify  technical  regulations  based  on  product  requirements  in  terms  of 
performance rather than design or descriptive characteristics. 
 
 
 
5-3 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
Article 5.7 
Conformity Assessment Procedures   
 
1.  The  Parties  recognise  that  a  broad  range  of  mechanisms  exist  to  facilitate  the 
acceptance of the results of conformity assessment procedures, including:   
 
(a)  the importing Party’s reliance on a supplier’s declaration of conformity;   
 
(b)  agreements  on mutual  acceptance of the  results of conformity assessment 
procedures with respect to specific technical regulations conducted by bodies 
located in the territory of the other Party;   
 
(c)  use of accreditation procedures to qualify conformity assessment bodies;   
 
(d)  government designation of conformity assessment bodies, including bodies 
located in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(e)  unilateral  recognition  by  a  Party  of  the  results  of  conformity  assessment 
procedures conducted in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(f)  voluntary  arrangements  between  conformity  assessment  bodies  in  the 
respective territories of each Party; and 
  
(g)  use  of  regional  or  international  multilateral  recognition  agreements  and 
arrangements of which the Parties are parties.  
 
2.  Having regard in particular to those considerations, the Parties shall: 
 
(a)  intensify their exchange of information on these and other mechanisms with a 
view to facilitating the acceptance of conformity assessment results; 
 
(b)  exchange information on the criteria used to select appropriate conformity 
assessment procedures for specific products and, in line with Article 5.1.2 of 
the TBT Agreement, require conformity assessment procedures that are not 
more  strict  or  are  not  applied  more  strictly  than  necessary  to  give  the 
importing  Party  adequate  confidence  that  products  conform  with  the 
applicable technical regulations or standards, taking account of the risks non-
conformity would create;  
 
(c)  exchange information on accreditation policy, and consider how to make the 
best  use  of  international  standards  for  accreditation,  and  international 
agreements involving the Parties’ accreditation bodies, for example, through 
the mechanisms of the International Laboratory Accreditation Co-operation 
(ILAC) and the International Accreditation Forum (IAF);  
 
(d)  give positive consideration to accredit conformity assessment bodies in the 
territory of the other Party on terms no less favourable than those it accords to 
5-4 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
conformity assessment bodies in its territory, to the extent necessary to fulfil 
their obligations under the ILAC, the IAF and the European co-operation for 
Accreditation (EA); and  
   
(e)  ensure  that,  insofar  as  two  or  more  conformity  assessment  bodies  are 
authorised by a Party to carry out conformity assessment procedures required 
for placing the product on the market, economic operators may choose among 
them.  
 
3.  The Parties reaffirm their obligation under Article 5.2.5 of the TBT Agreement that 
fees imposed for mandatory conformity assessment of imported products shall be 
equitable  in  relation  to  any  fees  chargeable  for  assessing  the  conformity  of  like 
products of national origin or originating in any other country, taking into account 
communication,  transportation  and  other  costs  arising  from  differences  between 
location of facilities of the applicant and the conformity assessment body.  
 
4.   Upon request by either Party, the Parties may decide to engage in consultations with a 
view  to  defining  sectoral  initiatives  regarding  the  use  of  conformity  assessment 
procedures or the facilitation of acceptance of conformity assessment results that are 
appropriate  for  the  respective  sectors.  The  Party  making  the  request  should 
substantiate it with relevant information on how this sectoral initiative would facilitate 
trade  between  the  Parties.  In  these  consultations,  all  mechanisms  described  in 
paragraph 1 may be considered. Where a Party declines such a request from the other 
Party, it shall, upon request, explain its reasons.  
 
Article 5.8 
Transparency  
 
1.  The Parties reaffirm their transparency obligations under the TBT Agreement with 
regard to the preparation, adoption and application of standards, technical regulations 
and conformity assessment procedures.  
 
 2.  The Parties agree, where a part of the process of developing a standard, technical 
regulation or conformity assessment procedure is open to public consultation, to take 
the  other  Party’s  views  into  account  and,  without  discrimination,  to  provide 
reasonable  opportunities  for  the  other  Party  and  its  interested  persons  to  make 
comments. 
 
3.  Where a Party makes a notification under Articles 2.9 and 5.6 of the TBT Agreement, 
the Parties agree:  
 
(a)  to allow at least 60 days following the notification for the other Party to 
provide comments in writing on the proposal and where practicable, to give 
appropriate consideration to reasonable requests for extending the comment 
period; and  
 
5-5 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
(b)  to allow sufficient time between the publication of technical regulations and 
their entry into force for economic operators of the other Party to adapt, except 
where urgent problems of safety, health, environmental protection or national 
security arise or threaten to arise. 
 
4.  The notification of technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures shall 
include an online link to, or a copy of, the complete text of the notified document. 
Where possible, the Parties shall provide an online link to, or a copy of, the complete 
text of the notified document in English. 
 
5.  Each Party shall publish all standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment 
procedures in force.  
 
6.  Each Party shall make available, as appropriate and available, written guidance on 
compliance  with  its  standards,  technical  regulations,  and  conformity  assessment 
procedures to the other Party or its economic operators, upon request and without 
undue delay. 
 
Article 5.9 
Market surveillance 
 
The  Parties  undertake  to  exchange  information  on  market  surveillance  and  enforcement 
activities. 
 
Article 5.10 
Marking and Labelling  
 
1.  For the purposes of this Article, and in accordance with paragraph 1 of Annex 1 of the 
TBT Agreement, a technical regulation may include or deal exclusively with marking 
or labelling requirements. 
 
2.  The Parties agree that, where their technical regulations contain mandatory marking 
or labelling, they will ensure that these are not prepared with a view to, or with the 
effect of, creating unnecessary obstacles to international trade, and should not be more 
trade restrictive than necessary to fulfil a legitimate objective, as referred to under 
Article 2.2 of the TBT Agreement. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Agreement, where a Party requires mandatory marking or 
labelling of products: 
 
(a)  the Party shall endeavour to restrict its requirements only to those which are 
relevant for consumers or users of the product or to indicate the product’s 
conformity with the mandatory requirements; 
 
(b)  the Party may specify the information to be provided on the label and may 
require compliance with certain regulatory requirements for the affixing of the 
label, but shall not require any prior approval or certification of labels and 
5-6 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
markings as a precondition for sale of the products in its market unless this is 
deemed necessary in the light of the risk of the product to human, animal or 
plant health or life; 
 
(c)  where  the  Party  requires  the  use  of  a  unique  identification  number  by 
economic operators, the Party shall ensure that such numbers are issued to the 
relevant economic operators without undue delay and on a non-discriminatory 
basis; 
 
(d)  provided it is not misleading, contradictory or confusing in relation to the 
information  required  in  the  importing  Party  of  the  goods,  the  Party  shall 
permit the following:  
 
(i)  information in other languages in addition to the language required in 
the importing Party of the goods; 
 
(ii)  internationally-accepted  nomenclatures,  pictograms,  symbols  or 
graphics; and  
 
(iii)  additional information to that required in the importing Party of the 
goods; 
 
(e)  the Party shall accept that labelling, including re-labelling and corrections to 
labelling, take place, where relevant, in authorised premises (for example, in 
customs warehouses at the point of import) in the importing Party prior to the 
distribution and sale of the product as an alternative to labelling in the place of 
origin unless such labelling is required to be carried out in the place of origin 
for reasons of public health or safety; and 
 
(f)  the Party shall, in cases where it considers that legitimate objectives under the 
TBT  Agreement  are  not  compromised  thereby,  endeavour  to  accept  non-
permanent or detachable labels, or marking or labelling in the accompanying 
documentation rather than physically attached to the product.  
 
4.  Without prejudice to the Parties’ rights and obligations under the WTO Agreement, 
paragraph 3 shall apply to agricultural products, industrial products, and processed 
agricultural food products including beverages and spirits. 
 
Article 5.11 
Coordinators 
 
1.  To facilitate the implementation of this Chapter and cooperation between the Parties, 
each Party shall designate a Coordinator, who shall be responsible for coordinating 
with interested persons in the Party’s territory and communicating with the other 
Party’s  Coordinator  on  all  matters  pertaining  to  this  Chapter.  The  Coordinators’ 
functions shall include: 
 
5-7 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
(a)  monitoring the implementation and administration of this Chapter; 
 
(b)  promptly addressing any issue that a Party raises related to the development, 
adoption, application, or enforcement of standards, technical regulations or 
conformity assessment procedures; 
 
(c)  enhancing cooperation in  the development  and improvement of standards, 
technical regulations, and conformity assessment procedures; 
 
(d)  exchanging information on standards, technical regulations, and conformity 
assessment  procedures,  including  referring  enquiries  from  a  Party  to  the 
appropriate regulatory authorities, in response to all reasonable requests for 
such information from a Party; 
 
(e)  considering  and  facilitating  any  sector-specific  proposal  a  Party  makes  to 
further the objectives of this Chapter; 
 
(f)  facilitating the consideration of a request by a Party for the recognition of the 
results  of  conformity  assessment  procedures,  including  a  request  for  the 
negotiation of an agreement, in a sector nominated by that Party; 
 
(g)  reviewing  this  Chapter  in  light  of  any  developments  under  the  TBT 
Agreement, and developing recommendations for amendments to this Chapter 
in light of those developments; 
 
(h)  arranging the establishment of ad hoc working groups as mutually agreed by 
both Parties, in order to explore ways to facilitate trade between the Parties; 
and 
 
(i)  simultaneously informing the contact points set out in Article 18.16 (Contact 
Points) of Chapter 18 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions) of any 
communication between the Parties. 
 
2.  The Coordinators may communicate through teleconference, videoconference, or any 
other means, as mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Article, the Coordinator for:  
 
(a)   Singapore shall be:  
        
      Ministry of Trade and Industry,  
     Trade Division,  
       100 High Street #09-01 The Treasury, 
  Singapore 179434 
           Tel: (65) 6225 9911 
           Fax: (65) 6332 7260 
             Email: mti_email@mti.gov.sg  
5-8 
 Chapter 5 – Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
 
or its successor or designated contact points;  
 
(b)   Turkey shall be: 
 
Ministry of Economy, 
DG Product Safety and Inspection 
İnönü Bulvarı No: 36 
Emek, Ankara 06510 
Tel: +90 312 212 58 97 
Fax: + 90 312 212 87 68  
Email: tbt@economy.gov.tr    
 
or its successor or designated contact points. 
 
Article 5.12 
Final Provisions 
 
1.  The  Parties  have  undertaken  further  commitments  on  sector-specific  non-tariff 
measures on goods as set out in Annexes 5-A (Electronics) and 5-B (Motor Vehicles 
and Parts Thereof) and the appendices pertaining thereto. 
 
2.  The Parties may discuss in the Joint Committee established pursuant to Article 18.1 
(Joint Committee) of Chapter 18 (Institutional, General and Final Provisions) any 
implementing arrangements arising from this chapter. The Parties may, by decision in 
the Joint Committee, adopt any implementing measure required to this effect. 
5-9 
 