 
10B-1 
ANNEX 10B  
 
EXPROPRIATION 
 
 
The Parties confirm their shared understanding that: 
 
1. 
An action or a series of related actions by a Party cannot 
constitute an expropriation unless it interferes with a tangible or 
intangible property right or property interest1 in a covered 
investment. 
 
2. 
Article 10.13 (Expropriation) addresses two situations: 
 
(a) 
the first situation is direct expropriation, where a covered 
investment 
is 
nationalised 
or 
otherwise 
directly 
expropriated through formal transfer of title or outright 
seizure; and 
 
(b) 
the second situation is where an action or a series of 
related actions by a Party has an effect equivalent to direct 
expropriation without formal transfer of title or outright 
seizure. 
 
3. 
The determination of whether an action or series of related actions 
by a Party, in a specific fact situation, constitutes an expropriation 
of the type referred to in subparagraph 2(b) requires a case-by-
case, fact-based inquiry that considers, among other factors: 
 
(a) 
the economic impact of the government action, although 
the fact that an action or a series of related actions by a 
Party has an adverse effect on the economic value of an 
investment, standing alone, does not establish that such 
an expropriation has occurred; 
 
(b) 
whether the government action breaches the government’s 
prior binding written commitment to the investor, whether 
by contract, licence, or other legal document; and 
 
 
 
1 For the purposes of this Annex, “property interest” refers to such property interest as 
may be recognised under the laws and regulations of that Party. 
 
10B-2 
 
(c) 
the character of the government action, including its 
objective and context.2 
 
4. 
Non-discriminatory regulatory actions by a Party that are 
designed and applied to achieve legitimate public welfare 
objectives, such as the protection of public health, safety, public 
morals, the environment, and real estate price stabilisation, do not 
constitute expropriation of the type referred to in subparagraph 
2(b). 
 
 
 
 
2 For Korea, a relevant consideration could include whether the investor bears a 
disproportionate burden, such as a special sacrifice that exceeds what the investor or 
investment should be expected to endure for the public interest.  This footnote does 
not prejudice the determination of the character of the government action of any other 
Party. 
