 
8A-1 
ANNEX 8A 
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
 
Article 1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
(a) 
financial institution means any financial intermediary or 
other juridical person that is authorised to do business and 
regulated or supervised as a financial institution, under the 
laws and regulations of the Party in whose territory it is 
located; 
 
(b) 
financial service means any service of a financial nature 
offered by a financial service supplier of a Party.  Financial 
services include all insurance and insurance-related 
services, and all banking and other financial services 
(excluding insurance).  Financial services include the 
following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
(i) 
direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
(A) 
life; and 
 
(B) 
non-life; 
 
(ii) 
reinsurance and retrocession; 
 
(iii) 
insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and 
agency; 
 
(iv) 
services 
auxiliary 
to 
insurance, 
such 
as 
consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment, and claim 
settlement services; 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding 
insurance)  
 
(v) 
acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds 
from the public; 
 
 
8A-2 
(vi) 
lending of all types, including consumer credit, 
mortgage credit, factoring, and financing of 
commercial transaction; 
 
(vii) 
financial leasing; 
 
(viii) 
all payment and money transmission services, 
including credit, charge and debit cards, travellers 
cheques, and bankers drafts; 
 
(ix) 
guarantees and commitments; 
 
(x) 
trading for own account or for account of customers, 
whether on an exchange, in an over-the-counter 
market or otherwise, the following: 
 
(A) 
money 
market 
instruments 
(including 
cheques, bills, certificates of deposits); 
 
(B) 
foreign exchange; 
 
(C) 
derivative products including futures and 
options; 
 
(D) 
exchange rate and interest rate instruments, 
including products such as swaps and 
forward rate agreements; 
 
(E) 
transferable securities; and 
 
(F) 
other negotiable instruments and financial 
assets, including bullion; 
 
(xi) 
participation in issues of all kinds of securities, 
including underwriting and placement as agent 
(whether publicly or privately) and provision of 
services related to such issues; 
 
(xii) 
money broking; 
 
(xiii) 
asset management, such as cash or portfolio 
management, all forms of collective investment 
management, pension fund management, custodial, 
depository, and trust services; 
 
 
8A-3 
(xiv) settlement and clearing services for financial assets, 
including securities, derivative products, and other 
negotiable instruments; 
 
(xv) 
provision and transfer of financial information, and 
financial data processing and related software by 
suppliers of other financial services; and 
 
(xvi) advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial 
services on all the activities listed in subparagraphs 
(v) through (xv), including credit reference and 
analysis, investment and portfolio research and 
advice, advice on acquisitions and on corporate 
restructuring and strategy; 
 
(c) 
financial service supplier means any natural person or 
juridical person of a Party seeking to supply or supplying 
financial services but the term “financial service supplier” 
does not include a public entity;  
 
(d) 
new financial service means any financial service which 
is not supplied in the territory of a Party but is supplied and 
regulated in the territory of any other Party.  This may 
include a service related to current and new products, or 
the manner in which a product is delivered; 
 
(e) 
public entity means: 
 
(i) 
a government, a central bank, or a monetary 
authority, of a Party, or an entity owned or controlled 
by a Party, that is principally engaged in carrying out 
governmental 
functions 
or 
activities 
for 
governmental purposes, not including an entity 
principally engaged in supplying financial services 
on commercial terms; or 
 
(ii) 
a private entity, performing functions normally 
performed by a central bank or monetary authority, 
when exercising those functions; and 
 
(f) 
self-regulatory 
organisation 
means 
any 
non-
governmental body, including any securities or futures 
exchange or market, clearing or payment settlement 
agency, or other organisation or association, that: 
 
 
8A-4 
(i) 
is recognised as a self-regulatory organisation and 
exercises regulatory or supervisory authority over 
financial service suppliers or financial institutions by 
legislation or delegation from central, regional, or 
local governments or authorities; or 
 
(ii) 
exercises regulatory or supervisory authority over 
financial service suppliers or financial institutions by 
legislation or delegation from central, regional, or 
local governments or authorities. 
 
 
Article 2: Scope  
 
1. 
This Annex shall apply to measures by a Party affecting the 
supply of financial services.  Reference to the supply of a financial 
service in this Annex shall mean the supply of a service as defined 
in subparagraph (r) of Article 8.1 (Definitions). 
 
2. 
For the purposes of subparagraph (l) of Article 8.1 (Definitions) 
and subparagraph 2(c) of Article 10.2 (Scope), “services supplied 
in the exercise of governmental authority” means the following: 
 
(a) 
activities conducted by a central bank or monetary 
authority or by any other public entity in pursuit of monetary 
or exchange rate policies;1 
 
(b) 
activities forming part of a statutory system of social 
security or public retirement plans; or 
 
(c) 
other activities conducted by a public entity for the account 
or with the guarantee or using the financial resources of the 
government. 
 
If a Party allows any of the activities referred to in subparagraph 
(b) or (c) to be conducted by its financial service suppliers in 
competition with a public entity or a financial service supplier, 
“services” shall include such activities. 
 
3. 
Subparagraph (o) of Article 8.1 (Definitions) and the definition set 
out in subparagraph 2(c) of Article 10.2 (Scope) shall not apply to 
services covered by this Annex. 
 
 
1 Activities referred to in this subparagraph include any regulatory and enforcement 
activities conducted in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate policies. 
 
8A-5 
4. 
Article 8.11 (Local Presence) shall not apply to services covered 
by this Annex. 
 
5. 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Annex and any 
other provision in this Agreement, this Annex shall prevail to the 
extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
Article 3: New Financial Services 
 
1. 
Each host Party shall endeavour to permit financial institutions of 
another Party established in the territory of the host Party to 
supply a new financial service in the territory of the host Party that 
the host Party would permit its own financial institutions, in like 
circumstances, to supply without adopting a law or modifying an 
existing law.2 
 
2. 
Where an application is approved, the supply of the new financial 
service is subject to relevant licensing, institutional or juridical 
form, or other requirements of the host Party. 
 
 
Article 4: Prudential Measures 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a Party shall not 
be prevented from adopting or maintaining measures for prudential 
reasons,3 including for the protection of investors, depositors, policy-
holders, or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial 
service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial 
system.  Where such measures do not conform with the provisions of 
this Agreement, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the 
Party’s commitments or obligations under this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 5: Treatment of Certain Information 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to 
disclose information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual 
 
 
2 For greater certainty, a Party may issue a new regulation or other subordinate 
measure in permitting the supply of the new financial service. 
 
3 The Parties understand that “prudential reasons” includes the maintenance of the 
safety, soundness, integrity, or financial responsibility of individual financial institutions 
or financial service suppliers, as well as the safety and financial and operational 
integrity of payment and clearing systems. 
 
8A-6 
customers, or any confidential or proprietary information in the 
possession of public entities. 
 
 
Article 6: Recognition 
 
1. 
A Party may recognise prudential measures of any international 
standard-setting body, another Party, or a non-Party in 
determining how its measures relating to financial services shall 
be applied.4  Such recognition, which may be achieved through 
harmonisation or otherwise, may be based on an agreement or 
arrangement with the international standard-setting body, other 
Party, 
or 
non-Party 
concerned, 
or 
may 
be 
accorded 
autonomously. 
 
2. 
A Party that is party to an agreement or arrangement referred to 
in paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate 
opportunity for other interested Parties, to negotiate their 
accession to such an agreement or arrangement, or to negotiate  
comparable ones with it, under circumstances in which there 
would be equivalent regulation, oversight, implementation of such 
regulation, and, if appropriate, procedures concerning the sharing 
of information between the parties to the agreement or 
arrangement. 
 
3. 
Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford 
adequate opportunity for any other Party to demonstrate that the 
circumstances referred to in paragraph 2 exist. 
 
 
Article 7: Transparency 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that transparent measures governing the 
activities of financial service suppliers are important in facilitating 
their ability to gain access to, and operate in, each other’s 
markets.  Each Party commits to promote regulatory transparency 
in financial services. 
 
 
 
4 For greater certainty, nothing in Article 8.6 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment) shall 
be construed to require a Party to accord such recognition to prudential measures of 
any other Party. 
 
 
8A-7 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application 
to which this Annex applies are administered in a reasonable, 
objective, and impartial manner. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure that measures of general application 
adopted or maintained by a Party are promptly published, or 
otherwise made publicly available.5 
 
4. 
To the extent practicable, each Party shall: 
 
(a) 
publish or make available to interested persons6 in 
advance any regulation of general application relating to 
this Annex that it proposes to adopt, and the purpose of 
such regulation; and 
 
(b) 
provide interested persons and other Parties with a 
reasonable opportunity to comment on such proposed 
regulation. 
 
5. 
To the extent practicable, each Party should allow a reasonable 
period of time between the date of publication of any final 
regulation of general application and the date when it enters into 
effect. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be 
available to it to ensure that the rules of general application 
adopted or maintained by a self-regulatory organisation of the 
Party are promptly published or otherwise made available.7 
 
7. 
Each Party shall maintain or establish appropriate mechanisms 
for responding to enquiries from interested persons of another 
Party regarding measures of general application covered by this 
Annex. 
 
8. 
A Party’s regulatory authority shall make available to interested 
persons of another Party its requirements, including any 
documentation required, for completing applications relating to 
the supply of financial services. 
 
 
5 For greater certainty, each Party may publish such information in its chosen language. 
 
6 For the purposes of this Article, the Parties confirm their shared understanding that 
“interested persons” are persons whose direct financial interest could potentially be 
affected by the adoption of the regulations of general application. 
 
7 For greater certainty, each Party may publish such information in its chosen language. 
 
8A-8 
9. 
On request of an applicant in writing, a Party’s regulatory authority 
shall inform the applicant of the status of its application.  If the 
authority requires additional information from the applicant, it shall 
notify the applicant without undue delay. 
 
10. 
A Party’s regulatory authority shall make an administrative 
decision on a complete application of a financial service supplier 
of another Party relating to the supply of a financial service within 
180 days, and shall notify the applicant of the decision without 
undue delay.  An application shall not be considered complete 
until all relevant proceedings are conducted and all necessary 
information is received.  Where it is not practicable for such a 
decision to be made within 180 days, the regulatory authority shall 
notify the applicant without undue delay and shall endeavour to 
make the decision within a reasonable period of time thereafter. 
 
11. 
On request of an unsuccessful applicant in writing, a Party’s 
regulatory authority that has denied an application shall, to the 
extent practicable, inform the applicant of the reasons for the 
denial of the application. 
 
 
Article 8: Financial Services Exceptions 
 
For greater certainty, nothing in this Annex shall be construed to prevent 
a Party from adopting or enforcing measures necessary to secure 
compliance with laws or regulations that are not inconsistent with this 
Annex, including those relating to the prevention of deceptive and 
fraudulent practices or to deal with the effects of a default on financial 
services contracts, subject to the requirement that such measures are 
not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or 
unjustifiable discrimination between Parties or between Parties and non-
Parties where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
investment in financial institutions or trade in financial services. 
 
 
Article 9: Transfers of Information and Processing of Information  
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that each Party may have its own 
regulatory requirements concerning the transfer of information 
and the processing of information.8 
 
8 For greater certainty, a Party may adopt a different regulatory approach, and this 
paragraph does not affect and is without prejudice to a Party’s rights and obligations 
under this Article.  
 
 
8A-9 
 
2. 
A Party shall not take measures that prevent: 
 
(a) 
transfers of information, including transfers of data by 
electronic or other means, necessary for the conduct of the 
ordinary business of a financial service supplier in its 
territory; or 
 
(b) 
processing of information necessary for the conduct of the 
ordinary business of a financial service supplier in its 
territory. 
 
3. 
Nothing in paragraph 2 prevents a regulatory authority of a Party, 
for regulatory or prudential reasons, from requiring a financial 
service supplier in its territory to comply with its laws and 
regulations in relation to data management and storage and 
system maintenance, as well as to retain within its territory copies 
of records, provided that such requirements shall not be used as 
a means of avoiding the Party’s commitments or obligations under 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
Nothing in paragraph 2 restricts the right of a Party to protect 
personal data, personal privacy, and the confidentiality of 
individual records and accounts including in accordance with its 
laws and regulations, provided that such a right shall not be used 
as a means of avoiding the Party’s commitments or obligations 
under this Agreement. 
 
5. 
Nothing in paragraph 2 shall be construed to require a Party to 
allow the cross-border supply or consumption abroad of services 
in relation to which it has not made commitments, including to 
allow non-resident suppliers of financial services to supply, as a 
principal, through an intermediary or as an intermediary, the 
provision and transfer of financial information and financial data 
processing as referred to in subparagraph (b)(xv) of Article 1 
(Definitions). 
 
 
Article 10: Self-Regulatory Organisations 
 
If a Party requires a financial institution of another Party to be a member 
of, participate in, or have access to a self-regulatory organisation to 
provide a financial service in its territory, that Party shall ensure that the 
self-regulatory organisation observes that Party’s obligations under 
Article 8.4 (National Treatment). 
 
 
8A-10 
Article 11: Payment and Clearing Systems 
 
Under the terms and conditions that accord national treatment, each 
Party shall grant financial institutions of another Party established in its 
territory access to payment and clearing systems operated by public 
entities, and to official funding and refinancing facilities available in the 
normal course of ordinary business.  This Article is not intended to confer 
access to the Party’s lender of last resort facilities.9 
 
 
Article 12: Consultations 
 
1. 
A Party may request consultations with another Party regarding 
any matter arising under this Agreement that affects financial 
services.  The other Party shall consider such a request. 
 
2. 
Consultations under this Article shall include the relevant 
representatives of the contact points specified in Article 13 
(Contact Points). 
 
 
Article 13: Contact Points 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the contact points for financial 
services are: 
 
(a) 
for Australia, the Department of the Treasury and the 
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade and, as 
necessary, officials from the relevant regulatory authorities, 
including the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, 
the Reserve Bank of Australia, and the Australian 
Securities and Investment Commission; 
 
(b) 
for Brunei Darussalam, the Ministry of Finance and 
Economy and Autoriti Monetari Brunei Darussalam; 
 
(c) 
for Cambodia, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the 
Securities Exchange Commission of Cambodia, the 
National Bank of Cambodia, and the Ministry of 
Commerce; 
 
 
9 For greater certainty, a Party need not grant access under this Article to a financial 
institution of another Party established in its territory if such access or treatment is not 
granted to its own like financial institutions. 
 
8A-11 
(d) 
for China, the People’s Bank of China, the China Banking 
and Insurance Regulatory Commission, and the China 
Securities Regulatory Commission; 
 
(e) 
for Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of 
Finance, the Indonesia Financial Services Authority (OJK), 
and Bank Indonesia; 
 
(f) 
for Japan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Financial 
Services Agency, or their successors; 
 
(g) 
for Korea, the Financial Services Commission, and the 
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy; 
 
(h) 
for Lao PDR, the Bank of the Lao PDR, the Ministry of 
Finance, and the Lao Securities Commission Office; 
 
(i) 
for Malaysia, Bank Negara Malaysia and the Securities 
Commission Malaysia; 
 
(j) 
for Myanmar, the Ministry of Planning, Finance and 
Industry, the Central Bank of Myanmar, the Securities and 
Exchange Commission of Myanmar, and the Ministry of 
Commerce; 
 
(k) 
for New Zealand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, 
in coordination with financial services regulators; 
 
(l) 
for the Philippines, the Department of Finance, the Bangko 
Sentral ng Pilipinas, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, and the Insurance Commission; 
 
(m) 
for Singapore, the Monetary Authority of Singapore; 
 
(n) 
for Thailand, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Thailand, 
the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Office 
of Insurance Commission; and 
 
(o) 
for Viet Nam, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the State 
Bank of Viet Nam, and the Ministry of Finance. 
 
2. 
A Party shall promptly notify the other Parties of any change of its 
contact point. 
 
 
 
 
 
8A-12 
Article 14: Dispute Settlement 
 
Panels established pursuant to Chapter 19 (Dispute Settlement) for 
disputes on prudential issues and other financial matters shall have the 
necessary expertise relevant to the specific financial service under 
dispute. 
 
 
