 8C-1 ANNEX 8C  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES   1. Each Party shall consult with relevant bodies in its territory to seek to identify professional services where two or more Parties are mutually interested in establishing dialogue on issues that relate to the recognition of professional qualifications, licensing, or registration.  2. Each Party shall encourage its relevant bodies to establish dialogues with the relevant bodies of another Party or Parties, with a view to recognising professional qualifications and facilitating licensing or registration procedures.  3. Each Party shall encourage its relevant bodies to negotiate with the relevant bodies of another Party or Parties on any form of arrangements for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, licensing, or registration in professional services sectors of mutual interest.  4. Each Party shall encourage its relevant bodies to take into account agreements that relate to professional services in the development of agreements on the recognition of professional qualifications, licensing, and registration.  5. A Party may consider, if feasible, based on a foreign service supplier’s home licence or recognised professional body membership, without the need for further written examination:  (a) taking steps to implement a temporary or project specific licensing or registration regime; or  (b) granting such licence or registration, if appropriate.  That temporary or limited licence regime should not operate to prevent a foreign service supplier from gaining a local licence once that service supplier satisfies the applicable local licensing requirements.  6. To facilitate the activities referred to in paragraphs 1 through 3, each Party shall encourage its relevant bodies to work towards the development of mutually acceptable professional standards and criteria in mutually accepted areas, which may include:   8C-2 (a) education;  (b) examinations;  (c) experience;  (d) conduct and ethics;  (e) professional development and re-certification;  (f) scope of practice;  (g) local knowledge; and  (h) consumer protection.  7. On request of another Party, the requested Party shall, where practicable, provide information concerning standards and criteria for the licensing and certification of professional service suppliers, or otherwise provide information relating to the appropriate regulatory or other body to consult regarding these standards and criteria.  8. Each Party shall encourage its relevant bodies to refer to international frameworks, where applicable, in developing common standards and criteria for the relevant professions.  9. The Parties may periodically review the implementation of this Annex through the Committee on Services and Investment.   