  
 
ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF RESERVATIONS AND NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR SERVICES AND 
INVESTMENT 
 
 
AUSTRALIA LIST A 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List A sets out, pursuant to Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures) and 10.8 
(Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), Australia’s existing measures that are not subject 
to some or all of the obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 8.4 (National Treatment) or Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 8.5 (Market Access);  
 
(c)  Article  8.6  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  or  Article  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment);  
 
(d)  Article 8.11 (Local Presence); 
 
(e)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or 
 
(f)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors). 
 
2.  Each entry in this List sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Subsector, where referenced, refers to the specific subsector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Level of Government indicates the level of government maintaining the listed measures;  
 
(d)  Obligations Concerned specifies the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 that, pursuant 
to Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures) and Article 10.8 (Reservations and 
Non-Conforming Measures), do not apply to the listed measures;   
 
(e)  Description sets out the non-conforming measure for which the entry is made; and  
 
(f)  Source of Measure means the laws, regulations or other measures that are the source of 
the non-conforming measure for which the entry is made. A measure cited in the Source of 
Measure element: 
 
(i)  means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement, and 
 
(ii)  includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the authority of and 
consistent with the measure. 
 
3.  In accordance with Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures) and Article 10.8 
(Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the Articles of this Agreement specified in the 
Obligations Concerned element of an entry do not apply to the non-conforming measure identified 
in the Description element of that entry. 
 
4.  A measure that is reserved against Article 8.11 (Local Presence) need not be reserved against 
Article 8.4 (National Treatment). 
 
5.  For greater certainty, the Description element of each of the entries in this List A is to be 
interpreted in accordance with the relevant cited sources of the non-conforming measures. 
 
6.  The Schedules of other Parties shall not be used to interpret Australia’s commitments or 
obligations under Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) or Chapter 10 (Investment). 
 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 2 7.  Commitments on measures with respect to or relating to trade in financial services are undertaken 
subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), Annex 8A 
(Financial Services), Chapter 10 (Investment), these Explanatory Notes and this List A.  
 
8.  Without prejudice to other means of prudential regulation, Australia reserves the right to require 
licensing or registration of financial service suppliers and of financial instruments. 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 3                                                       
* The term “foreign person” has the meaning set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and 
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulations 2015 (Commonwealth). 
 
# This is the figure as at 1 January 2020.  To be indexed annually on 1 January. 
 
1 For greater certainty, the terms of this entry should be interpreted in accordance with Australia’s Foreign Investment Framework 
as at the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
2 “Investment” means activities covered by Part II of Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) or, where 
applicable, Ministerial Statements on foreign investment policy.  Funding arrangements that include debt instruments having 
quasi-equity characteristics will be treated as direct foreign investment.   
 
3 The Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Fees Imposition Act 2015 (Commonwealth) and the Foreign Acquisitions and 
Takeovers Fees Imposition Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth) set the fees for foreign investment applications and notices. Fees 
are indexed annually on 1 July.   
 
4 The term “foreign government investor” has the meaning set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 
(Commonwealth) and Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
 
5 The term “developed commercial land” means commercial land that is not vacant within the meaning of the Foreign Acquisitions 
and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
 
6 The conditions for the lower threshold are those set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) 
and Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 4  
 
 
   
                                                      
7 For the purposes of this entry, “existing” means in existence at the time the investment is proposed or made. 
 
8 “Unacceptable shareholding situation” and “practical control” have the meaning set out in the Financial Sector (Shareholdings) 
Act 1998 (Commonwealth).   
 
9 Ministerial statements on foreigninvestment policy including the Treasurer’s Press Release No. 28 of 9 April 1997.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 5  
 
 
 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 6  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 7  
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 8  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 9  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 10  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 11    
                                                      
10 For the purposes of this entry, a “foreign fishing vessel” is one that does not meet the definition of an Australian boat under the 
Fisheries Management Act 1991 (Commonwealth).   
 
11 The levy charged will be in accordance with the Foreign Fishing Licences Levy Act 1991 (Commonwealth) or any amendments 
thereto.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 12  
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 13  
 
   
                                                      
12 For the purposes of this entry, “significant foreign shareholding” means a holding of voting shares in CSL in which a foreign 
person has a relevant interest, if the foreign person has relevant interests in at least five per cent of the voting shares in CSL.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 14  
 
   
                                                      
13 Section 10.48 and 10.58 of Part X of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Commonwealth) list the categories of persons 
to whom this entry will apply.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 15  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 16  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 17  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 18  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 19  
 
   
                                                      
14 Applies only in relation to subparagraph 1(h) of Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements).   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 20  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 21  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 22  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 23 LIST B 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List B sets out, pursuant to Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures) and Article 
10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the specific sectors, subsectors or activities 
for which Australia may maintain existing, or adopt new or more restrictive, measures that do not 
conform with obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 8.4 (National Treatment) or Article 10.3 (National Treatment); 
 
(b)  Article 8.5 (Market Access);  
 
(c)  Article  8.6  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  or  Article  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment);  
 
(d)  Article 8.11 (Local Presence); 
 
(e)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or 
 
(f)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors). 
 
2.  Each entry in this List sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Subsector, where referenced, refers to the specific subsector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Obligations Concerned specifies the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 that, pursuant 
to Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures) and Article 10.8 (Reservations and 
Non-Conforming Measures), do not apply to the sectors, subsectors or activities listed in 
the entry; 
 
(d)  Description sets out the scope of the sector, subsector or activities covered by the entry; 
and  
 
(e)  Existing  Measures  where  specified,  identifies,  for  transparency  purposes,  a  non-
exhaustive list of existing measures that apply to the sectors, subsectors or activities 
covered by the entry.  
 
3.  In accordance with Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures) and Article 10.8 
(Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the Articles of this Agreement specified in the 
Obligations Concerned element of an entry do not apply to the sectors, subsectors and activities 
identified in the Description element of that entry. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, where Australia has more than one entry in this List B that could apply to a 
measure, each entry is to be read independently, and is without prejudice to the application of 
any other entry to the measure. 
 
5.  The Schedules of other Parties shall not be used to interpret Australia’s commitments or 
obligations under Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) or Chapter 10 (Investment). 
 
6.  Commitments on measures with respect to or relating to trade in financial services are undertaken 
subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), Annex 8A 
(Financial Services), Chapter 10 (Investment), these Explanatory Notes and this List B.  
 
7.  Without prejudice to other means of prudential regulation, Australia reserves the right to require 
licensing or registration of financial service suppliers and of financial instruments. 
 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 24 8.  For the avoidance of doubt, in relation to education services, nothing in Chapter 8 (Trade in 
Services) or Chapter 10 (Investment) shall interfere with: 
 
(a)  the  ability  of  individual  education  and  training  institutions  to  maintain  autonomy  in 
admissions policies (including in relation to considerations of equal opportunity for students 
and recognition of credits and degrees), in setting tuition rates and in the development of 
curricula or course content; 
 
(b)  non-discriminatory accreditation and quality assurance procedures for education and 
training institutions and their programmes, including the standards that must be met; 
 
(c)  government funding, subsidies or grants, such as land grants, preferential tax treatment 
and other public benefits, provided to education and training institutions; or 
 
(d)  the  need  for  education  and  training  institutions  to  comply  with  non-discriminatory 
requirements related  to the  establishment  and operation  of a facility  in  a  particular 
jurisdiction. 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 25  
   
                                                      
15 The terms in this entry should be interpreted in accordance with Australia’s Foreign Investment Framework, as at the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
16 The term “foreign person” has the meaning set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and 
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
 
17 The terms “Australian land” and “interest in Australian land” have the meaning set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers 
Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 26  
   
                                                      
18 The terms in this entry should be interpreted in accordance with Australia’s Foreign Investment Framework, as at the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement.   
 
19 The term “foreign person” has the meaning set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and 
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
 
20 The term “agricultural land” has the meaning set out in the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and 
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).    
 
21 The term “agribusiness” has the meaning set outin the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (Commonwealth) and 
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Regulation 2015 (Commonwealth).   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 27  
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 28  
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 29  
   
                                                      
22 For the purpose of this entry, an “Indigenous person” means a person of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 30  
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 31  
   
                                                      
23 For greater certainty, measures adopted or maintained with respect to the provision of services covered by this entry include 
measures for the protection of personal information relating to health and children.   
 
24 For the avoidance of doubt, this includes any measure with respect to: the collection of blood and its components, the 
distribution of blood and blood-related products, including plasma derived products, plasma fractionation services, and the 
procurement of blood and blood related products and services.   
 
25 For greater certainty, the subsidies programmes under Australia’s Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme and Medicare Benefits 
Scheme, or successor programmes, are not subject to Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) consistent with Article 8.2 (Scope) or Chapter 
10 (Investment) consistent with Article 10.2 (Scope).   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 32    
                                                      
26 “Creative arts” include: the performing arts – including theatre, dance and music – visual arts and craft, literature, film, television, 
video, radio, creative on-line content, indigenous traditional practice and contemporary cultural expression, and digital interactive 
media and hybrid arts work which uses new technologies to transcend discrete art form divisions.   
 
27 “Cultural heritage” includes: ethnological, archaeological, historical, literary, artistic, scientific or technological moveable or built 
heritage, including the collections which are documented, preserved and exhibited by museums, galleries, libraries, archives and 
other heritage collecting institutions.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 33  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 34  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 35  
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 36  
   
                                                      
28 For the purposes of this entry, “cabotage” is defined as the transportation of passengers or goods between a port located in 
Australia and another port located in Australia and traffic originating and terminating in the same port located in Australia.  
“Offshore transport” refers to shipping services involving the transportation of passengers or goods between a port located in 
Australia and any location associated with or incidental to the exploration or exploitation of natural resources of the continental 
shelf of Australia, the seabed of the Australian coastal sea and the subsoil of that seabed.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 37  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 38  
 
                                                      
29 For greater certainty, this right extends to any differential treatment accorded pursuant to a subsequent review or amendment 
of the relevant bilateral or multilateral international agreement.   
 
30 For the avoidance of doubt, this includes measures adopted or maintained under any existing or future protocol to that 
agreement.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 39  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 40  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 41  
 
   
                                                      
31 Ground handling services do not include: self-handling; security; line maintenance; aircraft repair and maintenance; or 
management or operation of essential centralised airport infrastructure, such as de-icing facilities, fuel distribution systems, 
baggage handling systems and fixed intra-airport transport systems.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 42  
 
   
                                                      
32 This entry is not itself intended to affect, or otherwise limit, a choice by a financial service supplier of another Party between 
branches or subsidiaries.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 43  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 44  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 45                                                       
33 For the purposes of this entry, “collective investment scheme” means a “managed investment scheme” as defined under section 
9 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Commonwealth), other than a managed investment scheme operated in contravention of 
subsection 601ED (5) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Commonwealth), or an entity that: 
 
(a)  carries on a business of investment in securities, interests in land, or other investments; and 
 
(b)  in the course of carrying on that business, invests funds subscribed, whether directly or indirectly, after an offer or 
invitation to the public (within the meaning of section 82 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Commonwealth)) made on terms 
that the funds subscribed would be invested. 
 
34 For greater certainty, Australia may require a collective investment scheme or a person of Australia involved in the operation 
of the scheme located in Australia to retain ultimate responsibility for the management of the collective investment scheme. 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 46  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 47  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 48  
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 49 APPENDIX A 
 
AUSTRALIA’S MARKET ACCESS COMMITMENTS – REGIONAL (STATE AND TERRITORY) 
LEVEL 
 
For the purposes of this Appendix: 
  the 1), 2) and 3) inscribed in the ‘Limitations on Market Access’ column refers to the modes 
for the supply of a service as defined in subparagraph (r)(i) through (iii) of Article 8.1 
(Definitions); 
  * means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility; 
  ** indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities 
covered by the Customs Procedure Code (CPC) concordance. 
Unless otherwise stated all CPC references correspond to the Provisional Central Product Classification 
(Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical 
Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991). 
 
                                                      
35 For the purposes of this commitment:  
 
“legal advisory services” includes provision of advice to and consultation with clients in matters, including transactions, 
relationships and disputes, involving the application or interpretation of law; participation with or on behalf of clients in 
negotiations and other dealings with third parties in such matters; and preparation of documents governed in whole or in part 
by law, and the verification of documents of any kind for purposes of and in accordance with the requirements of law.  Does 
not include advice, consultation and documentation services performed by service suppliers entrusted with public functions, 
such as notary services, or services provided by patent or trademarks attorneys.  
 
“legal representational services” includes preparation of documents intended to be submitted to courts, administrative agencies, 
and other duly constituted official tribunals in matters involving the application and interpretation of law; and appearance before 
courts, administrative agencies, and other duly constituted official tribunals in matters involving the application and 
interpretation of the specified body of law.  (Note: The inclusion of representational services before administrative agencies 
and other duly constituted official tribunals within the context of legal services does not necessarily mean that a licensed lawyer 
must supply such services in all cases.  The precise scope of services subject to licensing requirements is subject to the 
discretion of the relevant regulatory authority.) Does not include documentation services performed by service suppliers 
entrusted with public functions, such as notary services, or services provided by patent or trademarks attorneys.  
 
“legal arbitration, conciliation and mediation services” means preparation of documents to be submitted to, preparation for and 
appearance before, an arbitrator, conciliator or mediator in any dispute involving the application and interpretation of law. Does 
not include arbitration, conciliation and mediation services in disputes for which the law has no bearing which fall under services 
incidental to management consulting. As a sub-category, international legal arbitration, conciliation or mediation services refer 
to the same services when the dispute involves parties from two or more countries. 
 
“domestic law (host country law)” means the law of Australia.  
 
“foreign law” means the law of the territories of WTO Members and other countries other than the law of Australia.  
 
“international law” includes law established by international treaties and conventions, as well as customary law. 
 
For the purposes of these definitions:  
 
“arbitration” is takento mean a process in which the parties to a dispute present arguments and evidence to a dispute resolution 
practitioner (the arbitrator) who makes a determination. 
 
“mediation” is taken to mean a process in which the parties to a dispute, with the assistance of a dispute resolution practitioner 
(the mediator), identify the disputed issues, develop options, consider alternatives and endeavour to reach an agreement. The 
mediator has no advisory or determinative role in regard to the content of the dispute or the outcome of its resolution, but may 
advise on or determine the process of mediation whereby resolution is attempted. 
 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 50    
                                                      
“conciliation” is taken to mean a process in which the parties to a dispute, with the assistance of a dispute resolution practitioner 
(the conciliator), identify the issues indispute, develop options, consider alternatives and endeavour to reach an agreement. 
The conciliator may have an advisory role on the content of the dispute or the outcome of its resolution, but not a determinative 
role. The conciliator may advise on or determine the process of conciliation whereby resolution is attempted, and may make 
suggestions for terms of settlement, give expert advice on likely settlement terms, and may actively encourage the participants 
to reach an agreement.   
 
36 For greater certainty, Entry 8 of this List applies to measures relating to content for computer and related services (CPC 84).  
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 51    
                                                      
37 For greater certainty, this excludes maritime cabotage services and offshore transport services in accordance with Entry 12 of 
this List. 
 
38 Covers services by advertising agencies in creating and placing advertising in periodicals, newspapers, radio and television 
for clients; outdoor advertising; media representation i.e. sale of time and space for various media; distribution and delivery of 
advertising material or samples.  For greater certainty, this does not include production, broadcast or screening of advertisements 
for radio, television or cinema in accordance with Entry 8 of this List. 
 
39 Excludes arbitration and conciliation services. 
 
40 Provision of advice and guidance relating to crop and livestock management on consultancy basis. Includes specialised 
consultancy services only, related to forestry activities, timber evaluation, forest management or planning.  Does not include 
logging. 
 
41 Consists of specialised consultancy services only, related to marine or freshwater fisheries, fish hatchery services. Does not 
include fishing.   
 
42 Covers consultancy services related to the transmission and distribution on a fee or contract basis of electricity, gaseous fuels 
and steam and hot water to household, industrial, commercial and other users. 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 52                                                       
43 Activities of establishments engaged in provision of planning, organising, managing and marketing services for conventions 
and similar events (including catering and beverage services). 
 
44 Specialised consultancyservices related to the post-construction design and fitting out of interior living and working spaces.  
Includes purchase of necessary goods.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 53                                                       
45 Covers sound recording services, liverecording services and sound recording originals. Does not include reproduction of audio 
recordings, or providing a sound recording studio or sound recording equipment.   
 
46 Covers audiovisual editing services, transfers and duplication of masters services, colour correction and digital restoration 
services, visual effects services, animation services, captioning, titling and subtitling services, sound editing and design services, 
and other audiovisual post-production services such as format conversion and compression services.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 54    
                                                      
47 For greater certainty, this excludes tobacco and alcoholic beverages, and excludes firearms in accordance with Entry 9 of this 
List. 
 
48 For greater certainty, this excludes wholesale trade services of unmanufactured tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic 
beverages, and excludes firearms in accordance with Entry 9 of this List.   
 
49 Australia’s commitments in relation to these services extend to cover the following services not listed in relevant CPC 
classifications: inventory management of goods, assembling, sorting and grading of goods, breaking bulk, re-distribution and 
delivery services for retailing.  Does not cover dispensing of pharmaceuticals.  For greater certainty, this excludes retailing 
services of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and firearms in accordance with Entry 9 of this List.   
 
50 Covers general as well as technical and vocational education at the secondary level in private institutions.   
 
51 Covers provision of private tertiary education services including at university level.   
 
52 Covers tuition and testing in English and other languages. Tuition in cuisine and traditional therapies (including massage, 
acupuncture), music, dance and martial arts. 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 55                                                       
53 Australia’s commitments on environmental services exclude the provision of water for human use, including water collection, 
purification and distribution through mains.   
 
54 This covers removal, treatment and disposal of household, commercial and industrial sewage and other waste waters including 
tank emptying and cleaning, monitoring, removal and treatment of solid wastes. 
 
55 This covers hazardous and non-hazardous waste collection, treatment and disposal (including incineration, composting and 
landfill); linen sanitation and treatment and clinical waste disposal services supplied to hospitals; sweeping and snow removal, 
and other sanitation services.   
 
56 This covers services at power stations or industrial complexes to remove air pollutants; monitoring of mobile emissions and 
implementation of control systems or reduction programmes. 
 
57 Australia’s commitments under CPC 9406** combine to cover the entirety of CPC 9406 services. This covers cleaning-up 
systems in situ or mobile, emergency response, clean-up and longer-term abatement of spills and natural disasters; and 
rehabilitation programmes (e.g. recovery of mining sites) including monitoring.   
 
58 This covers monitoring programmes, and installation of noise reduction systems and screens.   
 
59 Australia’s commitments under items CPC 9406** combine to cover the entirety of CPC 9406 services.  This covers ecology 
and habitat protection and promotion of forests and promoting sustainable forestry. 
 
60 This covers other environment protection services, including services related to environmental impact assessment.   
 
61 Covers delivery of services under the direction of registered medical doctorsto patients in hospital institutions that are not 
funded, owned or operated by or on behalf of the federal government or a State or Territory government in Australia.   
 
62 Covers podiatry and chiropody services. Includes podiatry services carried out in health clinics, and in residential health facilities 
other than hospitals, as well as in own consulting rooms, patients’ homes or elsewhere. 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 56    
                                                      
63 Covers recreation park and beach services, and yoga services.   
 
64 For greater certainty, this excludes maritime cabotage and offshore transport services in accordance with Entry 12 of this List.   
 
65 For greater certainty, this excludes maritime cabotage and offshore transport services in accordance with Entry 12 of this List.   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 57                                                       
66 This covers establishments mainly engaged in periodic maintenance and repair (routine and emergency) of airframes (including 
wings, doors, control surfaces) avionics, engines and engine components, hydraulics, pressurisation and electrical systems and 
landing gear. Includes painting, other fuselage surface treatments and repair of flight-deck (and other) transparencies. Further 
includes rotary and glider aircraft.   
 
67 Covers the supply at an airport, on a fee or contract basis, of the following: airline representation, administration and 
supervision; passenger handling; baggage handling; ramp services; catering (except the preparation of the food); air cargo and 
mail handling; fuelling of an aircraft; aircraft servicing and cleaning; surface transport; and flight operations, crew administration 
and flight planning. Ground handling services do not include self-handling; security; line maintenance; aircraft repair and 
maintenance; or management or operation of essential centralised airport infrastructure such as de-icing facilities, fuel distribution 
systems, baggage handling systems, and fixed intra-airport transport systems.  
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 58    
                                                      
68 Covers the supply of air terminal, airfield and other airport infrastructure operation services on a fee or contract basis. Airport 
operation services do not include air navigation services.   
 
69 This commitment confirms, without extending, the application to air transport services of the specific commitments made 
elsewhere in this Appendix in the following sections, subject to all limitations, exceptions and qualifications set out in those 
sections: Travel agencies and tour operator services (CPC7471); Market research and public opinionpolling services (CPC 864); 
Advertising services (CPC 87110, 87120**); Distribution: Commission agents’ services (CPC 62113-62118); Wholesale trade 
services (CPC 6223-6228); Retailing services (CPC 631, 63212, 6322-6325, 6329, 61112, 6113, 6121); and Franchising (CPC 
8929).  For the purposes of this commitment, “selling and marketing of air transport services” is defined as in subparagraph (k) 
of Article 8.1 (Definitions), except that the aspects of ‘marketing’ covered by this commitment are limited to market research, 
advertising and distribution. 
 
70 Activities of establishments engaged in providing and maintaining computer reservation to other enterprises engaged in the 
provision of travel agency services, including transport and accommodation booking, tour and travel wholesaling/retailing – to 
establishments engaged in providing reservation services (such as travel agencies).  Computer reservation systems services 
related to air carriers include the provision of information on air carrier schedules, space availability and tariffs. 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 59  
   
                                                      
71 Does not include regular urban bus services.   
 
72 Note also that maritime cargo handling services are dealt with under ‘Maritime Services’. 
 
73 Australia’s commitment in relation to these services extends to cover the following services in addition to those listed in CPC 
742: distribution centre services and materials handling and equipment services such as container station and depot services 
(excluding maritime). 
 
74 Australia’s commitment in relation to these services extends to cover the following services in addition to those listed in CPC 
748: customs agency services and load scheduling services (excluding maritime). 
 
75 Australia’s commitment in relation to these services extends to cover the following services in addition to those listed under 
CPC 749: container leasing and rental services (excluding maritime).   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 60 NOTE ON MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES 
 
Definitions 
 
1.  Multimodal  Transport  Operator:  the  person  on  whose  behalf  the  bill  of  lading/multimodal 
document evidencing a contract of multimodal carriage of goods is issued and who is responsible 
for the carriage of goods pursuant to the contract of carriage. 
 
2.  Other  Forms  of  Commercial  Presence  for  the  Supply  of  International  Maritime Transport 
Services: for the purposes of this Appendix, means the ability for international maritime transport 
service suppliers of other Parties to undertake locally all activities which are necessary for the 
supply to their customers of a partially or fully integrated transport service, within which the 
maritime transport constitutes a substantial element. This commitment shall not be construed as 
limiting in any manner the commitments undertaken under the cross-border mode of delivery.  
 
These activities include:  
  marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services through direct contact 
with customers, from quotation to invoicing, these services being those operated or 
offered by the service supplier itself or by service suppliers with which the service seller 
has established standing business arrangements;  
  the acquisition, on their own account or on behalf of their customers (and the resale to 
their customers) of any transport and related services, including inward transport 
services by any mode, particularly inland waterways, road and rail, necessary for the 
supply of the integrated service;  
  the  preparation  of  documentation  concerning  transport  documents,  customs 
documents, or other documents related to the origin and character of the goods 
transported;  
  the  provision  of  business  information  by  any  means,  including  computerised 
information systems and electronic data interchange (subject to the provisions of the 
Annex on Telecommunications of GATS);  
  the setting up of any business arrangements (including participation in the stock of a 
company) and the appointment of personnel recruited locally (or, in the case of foreign 
personnel, subject to Australia’s commitments listed in Annex IV (Schedule of Specific 
Commitments  on  Temporary  Movement  of  Natural  Persons))  with  any  locally 
established shipping agency; and  
  acting on behalf of the companies, organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes 
when required.  
 
3.  International Rental of Vessels with Crew: rental or leasing services of all types of sea-going 
vessels with crew (such as tankers, bulk dry cargo vessels, cargo and freight vessels) for the 
purpose of international trade. 
 
4.  Maritime Cargo Handling Services: activities exercised by stevedore companies, including 
terminal operators, but not including the direct activities of dockers, when this workforce is 
organised independently of the stevedoring of terminal operator companies. The activities 
covered include the organisation and supervision of: the loading or discharging of cargo to or 
from a ship; the lashing or unlashing of cargo; and, the reception or delivery and safekeeping of 
cargoes in the wharf area before shipment or after discharge.  
 
The organisation and supervision includes the arrangements for (1) engaging skilled labour 
(dockers), (2) using all the necessary equipment for on-board or shore use and the appropriate 
storage space, whether by ownership, rental or otherwise, (3) the checking of parcels and 
markings, the weighing and measuring of cargo (upon request of the owner), and (4) the 
administrative duties as well as the responsibility related to the services. 
 
Container terminal operators can furthermore be appointed for stuffing/stripping containers and 
e.g. the survey and supply of electricity to containers.  
 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 61 5.  Maritime Freight Forwarding Services: the organisation and monitoring of shipment operations 
on behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of 
documentation and provision of business information.  
 
6.  Customs Clearance Services: activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another Party 
customs formalities concerning import, export or through-transport of cargoes, whether this is the 
main activity of the service provider or a usual complement of its main activity.  
 
7.  Pre-shipment Inspection: all services performed on a fee or contract basis involved in the 
verification of the quality, quantity, price (including currency exchange rate and financial terms), 
or the customs classification of goods to be exported.  Does not include customs or quarantine 
inspection.  
 
8.  Maritime Agency Services: activities consisting in representing, within a given geographic area, 
as an agent, the business interests of one or more shipping line or shipping companies, for the 
following purposes:  
  marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to 
invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies; acquisition and 
resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision 
of business information; and  
  acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes 
when required.  
 
   
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 62 LIST C 
 
ADDITIONAL COMMITMENTS – CHAPTER 8 (TRADE IN SERVICES)  
AUSTRALIA 
 
This List sets out, pursuant to Article 8.9 (Additional Commitments), Australia’s additional commitments 
with respect to measures affecting trade in services, not subject to scheduling under Article 8.4 (National 
Treatment), Article 8.5 (Market Access), Article 8.6 (Most-Favoured Nation Treatment) or Article 8.11 
(Local Presence).  
 
Description of additional commitment 
 
Sector: Maritime Transport Services  
Services at Australian ports are made available to international maritime transport suppliers on 
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions.  The following is an indicative, but not 
exhaustive, list of services at Australian ports: pilotage, towing and tug assistance; provisioning, fuelling 
and watering; garbage collection and ballast waste disposal; Port Captain's services; navigation aids; 
shore-based operational services essential to ship operations, including communications, water and 
electrical supplies; emergency repair facilities; anchorage, berth and berthing services.  
 
Where road, rail and related auxiliary services are not fully covered in Appendix A (Australia’s Market 
Access Commitments – Regional (State and Territory) Level) of List B a multimodal transport operator 
shall have the ability, on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, to rent, hire or charter 
trucks, railway carriages, ships and related equipment for the purpose of onward forwarding of 
international cargoes carried by sea, or have access to and use of these forms of transport services for 
the purpose of providing multimodal transport services. 
 
 
ANNEX III – AUSTRALIA – 63 