 
 
ANNEX IV – CAMBODIA – 1 
ANNEX IV 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON  
TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
CAMBODIA 
 
 
1. 
This Schedule sets out Cambodia’s commitments in accordance with Chapter 9 (Temporary 
Movement of Natural Persons) with respect to its commitments for the temporary entry and 
temporary stay of natural persons of another Party covered under Article 9.2 (Scope). 
 
2. 
Cambodia remains unbound in respect of the entry of natural persons of a Party into, or their 
temporary stay, in the territory of Cambodia in accordance with Chapter 9 (Temporary Movement 
of Natural Persons), except as set out in the following commitments. 
 
3. 
For greater certainty, Cambodia reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure in respect 
to requirement of requisite visa and the conditions attached to temporary entry and temporary 
stay under such a visa for each of the categories specified below.  
 
4. 
In accordance with Article 9.5 (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of 
Natural Persons), for the categories of persons set out in this Schedule, Cambodia specifies 
below any terms, conditions, limitations, or qualifications in relation to the supply of a service by 
a service supplier of another Party through the presence of natural persons of the other Party in 
the territory of Cambodia. 
 
5. 
The commitments set out below shall apply to all services sectors or subsectors specified in 
Cambodia’s Schedule in Annex II (Schedules of Specific Commitments for Services), except 
Restaurants (CPC 642, 643) and International Transport under Maritime Services (Freight and 
Passengers) excluding Cabotage. 
 
6. 
With respect to Tourist Guides Services (CPC 7472), notwithstanding the commitments set out 
below, Cambodian nationality is required for Tourist Guides. 
 
7. 
For greater certainty, the commitments set out in this Schedule shall not be subject to 
commitments under Article 8.6 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), paragraph 3 of Article 8.7 
(Schedules of Specific Commitments), and Article 8.10 (Transparency List). 
 
 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
A. 
Business Visitors 
Definition: 
Natural persons who: 
 
(i) 
enter Cambodia for the purposes of 
participating 
in 
business 
meetings, 
establishing business contacts including 
negotiations for the sale of services or other 
similar activities; 
 
(ii) 
stay in Cambodia without receiving income 
from sources within Cambodia; and 
 
(iii) 
do not engage in making direct sales to the 
general public or supplying services. 
 
 
Entry visa for business visitors shall be valid for a 
period of 90 days for an initial stay of 30 days, 
which may be extended. 
B. 
Persons Responsible for Setting Up of a Commercial Establishment 
Definition: 
Natural persons working in an executive or 
managerial position, receiving remuneration from 
 
The natural persons responsible for setting up of 
a commercial establishment are not subject to a 
 
 
ANNEX IV – CAMBODIA – 2 
Description of Category 
Conditions and Limitations 
(including length of stay) 
a juridical person, as defined below, who are 
responsible for the setting up, in Cambodia, of a 
commercial presence of a service provider of a 
Party, that will support employment of persons 
described in categories (i), (ii), and (iii) of the 
Intra-Corporate Transferees definition. 
 
maximum duration of stay. Economic Needs 
Testing Requirement is applied.   
C. 
Intra-Corporate Transferees 
Definition: 
Natural persons who have been employed by a 
juridical person of another Party for a period of 
not less than one year and who seek temporary 
entry to provide services through a branch, 
subsidiary or affiliate in Cambodia and who are: 
 
(i) 
Executives: without requiring compliance 
with labour market tests, natural persons 
within an organisation who primarily direct 
the management of the organisation, 
exercise wide latitude in decision-making, 
and receive only general supervision or 
direction from higher-level executives, the 
board of directors, or shareholders of the 
business.  Executives would not directly 
perform tasks related to the actual supply of 
a service or services of the organisation. 
 
(ii) 
Managers: without requiring compliance 
with labour market tests, natural persons 
employed by a juridical person and who 
possess knowledge at an advanced level of 
expertise or proprietary knowledge of a 
juridical person product, service, research, 
equipment, techniques, or management, 
and who primarily direct the organisation or 
a department of the organisation; supervise 
and control the work of other supervisory, 
professional or managerial employees; 
have the authority to hire and fire or 
recommend hiring, firing or other personnel 
actions; 
and 
exercise 
discretionary 
authority over day-to-day operations.  They 
do not include first-line supervisors, unless 
the 
employees 
supervised 
are 
professionals, 
nor 
do 
they 
include 
employees who primarily perform tasks 
necessary for the supply of the service. 
 
(iii) 
Specialists: Natural persons, within an 
organisation who possess knowledge at an 
advanced level of continued expertise and 
who possess proprietary knowledge of the 
organisation's 
services, 
research 
equipment, techniques, or management. 
 
 
Temporary residency and work permit is required 
for the natural persons in the categories defined 
under intra-corporate transferees. Such permits 
are issued for two years and may be renewed 
annually up to maximum of five years in total. 
 
Economic Needs Testing Requirement is applied 
to the category of Specialists. 
 
