  
 
ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF RESERVATIONS AND NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR  
INVESTMENT 
 
 
CHINA 
 
  LIST A 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  List A sets out, pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming 
Measures), China’s existing measures that are not subject to some or all of the 
obligations imposed by:  
 
(a)  Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment);  
 
(c)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or  
 
(d)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors). 
  
2.  Each entry in List A sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector for which the entry is made;  
 
(b)  Level of Government indicates the level of government maintaining the 
scheduled measure(s);  
 
(c)  Type of Obligation specifies the Article(s) referred to in paragraph 1 
that, pursuant to subparagraph 1(a) of Article 10.8 (Reservations and 
Non-Conforming Measures), do not apply to the non-conforming aspects 
of the Source of Measure or the Description of Measure, as set out in 
paragraph 3; 
 
(d)  Description of Measure sets out the non-conforming aspects of the 
measure for which the entry is made; and  
 
(d)  Source of Measure1 identifies the laws, regulations, or other measures 
for which the entry is made. A measure cited in the Source of Measure 
element:  
 
(i)  means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement; and  
 
(ii)  includes  any  subordinate  measure  adopted  or  maintained 
under the authority of and consistent with the measure. 
 
3.  In accordance with subparagraph 1(a) of Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-
Conforming Measures), and subject to subparagraph 1(c) and paragraph 3 of 
Article  10.8  (Reservations  and  Non-Conforming  Measures),  the  Articles 
specified in the Type of Obligation element of an entry in List A do not apply to 
the non-conforming aspects of the Description of Measure element or of the 
law, regulation, or other measure, as applicable, identified in the Source of 
Measure of that entry.  
 
                                                      
1 For greater certainty, a change in the level of government at which a measure is administered or enforced 
does not, by itself, decrease the conformity of the measure with the obligations referred to in Article 10.8 
(Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures). 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 2 4.  In the interpretation of an entry in List A, all elements of the entry, as well as 
the Articles against which the entry is made, shall be considered. Unless 
otherwise explicitly indicated in the entry, the Description of Measure element 
shall  prevail  over  all  other  elements,  including  where  a  difference  exists 
between the Description of Measure element and the Source of Measure 
element in the aspect of investment liberalisation. 
 
5.  Where  there  is  overlap  between  the  contents  of  List  A  and  List  B, 
notwithstanding  the  obligations  China  assumes  under  Article  10.8 
(Reservations  and  Non-Conforming  Measures)  and  List  A,  China  remains 
entitled to adopt or maintain relevant measures in accordance with Article 10.8 
(Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures) and List B. 
 
6.  For the purposes of List A: 
 
(a)  foreign investor means any investor of another Party or a non-Party.  
 
(b)  foreign investor may not invest means a foreign investor may not 
directly or indirectly invest, including by holding any shares, stock or 
other forms of rights or interest, in the territory of China; and 
 
(c)  Chinese control means the circumstances where the total investment 
proportion held by foreign investors, whether directly and indirectly, is 
not greater than 49 per cent. 
 
7.  List A only applies to non-services investments by foreign investors, and does 
not apply to any investments by foreign investors in services (including cultural 
industries, constructions and operations of infrastructural and other facilities). 
Any aspects of such an entry which relate to investment in service are subject 
to the Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) only. For greater certainty, List A shall 
apply to the following sectors: manufacturing, agriculture, fishery, forestry and 
hunting, mining and quarrying; and all or a combination of these sectors in 
which an entry is made. 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 3 1. 
 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 4 2. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 5 3. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 6 4. 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 7 5. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 8 6. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 9 7. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 10 8. 
 
 
                                                      
2 For the purposes of this entry, “other tobacco products” refers to products entirely or partly made of the 
leaf tobacco as raw material, which are manufactured to be used for smoking, sucking, chewing or 
snuffing. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 11 9. 
 
 
                                                      
3 For the purposes of this entry, “Negative List” refers to the Special Administrative Measures for the 
Access of Foreign Investment (Negative List) published by the Chinese government which is effective on 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 12 10. 
 
                                                      
4 For greater certainty, qualified foreign institutional investors (including QFII and RQFII) who engage in 
trading securities and futures shall comply with regulations of China Securities Regulatory Commission and 
State  Administration  of  Foreign  Exchange,  and  meet  requirements  on  qualification,  shareholding 
percentage, spectrum for investment, fund transfer and so on. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 13  
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 14 11. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 15 12. 
 
 
                                                      
5 For the purposes of this entry, “Negative List” refers to the Special Administrative Measures for the 
Access of Foreign Investment (Negative List) published by the Chinese government which is effective on 
the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 16 LIST B 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
1.  List B sets out, pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming 
Measures), the specific sectors, subsectors, or activities for which China may 
maintain existing, or adopt new or more restrictive, measures that do not 
conform with obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment);  
 
(c)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or  
 
(d)   Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors).  
 
    
2.  Each entry in List B sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)   Sector refers to the sector for which the entry is made;  
 
(b)   Type of Obligation specifies the Article(s) referred to in paragraph 1 
that,  pursuant  to  Article  10.8  (Reservations  and  Non-Conforming 
Measures), do not apply to the sectors, subsectors, or activities covered 
by the entry;  
 
(c)   Description sets out the scope of the sectors, subsectors, or activities 
covered by the entry; and  
 
(d)   Existing  Measures  identifies,  for  transparency  purposes,  existing 
measures that apply to the sectors, subsectors, or activities covered by 
the entry.  
 
3.  In accordance with Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), 
the Article(s) specified in the Type of Obligation element of an entry in List B do 
not apply to the sectors, subsectors, or activities identified in the Description 
element of that entry. 
 
4.  For the purposes of List B, foreign investor means any investor of another 
Party or a non-Party. 
 
5.  List B only applies to non-services investments by foreign investors, does not 
apply to any investments by foreign investors in services (including cultural 
industries, constructions and operations of infrastructural and other facilities). 
Any aspects of such an entry which relate to investment in service are subject 
to the Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) only. For greater certainty, List B shall 
apply to the following sectors: manufacturing, agriculture, fishery, forestry and 
hunting, mining and quarrying; and all or a combination of these sectors in 
which an entry is made. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 17 1. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 18 2. 
 
 
                                                      
6 For the purposes of this entry, the “biological resources” refers to the genetic resources, organisms or 
parts thereof, biological communities, or any other biotic component of ecosystems with practical or 
potential use or value for humanity.  
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 19 3. 
 
 
                                                      
7 For the purposes of this entry, “ethnic minorities” refers to 55 non-Han minorities that have less population 
than Han nationality in the 56 ethnic nationalities identified and recognised by the Chinese central 
government. 
 
8 For the purposes of this entry, “ethnic minority areas” refers to: 
 
(a)  autonomous ethnic minority regions as set forth in the Constitution Law of the People’s Republic 
of China and the Law on Autonomy of Ethnic Minority Areas of the People’s Republic of China; 
 
(b)  ethnic minority town set up in accordance with the Notice Regarding Establishment of Ethnic 
Minority Towns and the Administrative Regulations on Ethnic Minority Towns issued by the State 
Council; and 
 
(c)  the three provinces of Yunnan, Guizhou, and Qinghai. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 20 4. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 21 5. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 22 6. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 23 7. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 24 8. 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 25 9. 
 
 
                                                      
9 For greater certainty, this right extends to any differential treatment accorded pursuant to a subsequent 
review or amendment of the relevant bilateral or multilateral international agreement. 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 26 10. 
 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 27 11. 
 
 
 
 
  ANNEX III – CHINA – 28 