 
5-1 
CHAPTER 5 
 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
Article 5.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
the definitions provided in Annex A of the SPS Agreement 
shall apply; 
 
(b) 
relevant definitions developed by Codex Alimentarius 
Commission, the World Organisation for Animal Health, 
and the International Plant Protection Convention shall be 
taken into account; 
 
(c) 
competent authorities means those authorities within 
each Party recognised by the national government as 
responsible for developing and administering the sanitary 
and phytosanitary measures within that Party; and 
 
(d) 
emergency measure means a sanitary or phytosanitary 
measure that is applied by an importing Party to a relevant 
exporting Party to address an urgent problem of human, 
animal or plant life or health protection that arises or 
threatens to arise in the Party applying the measure. 
 
 
Article 5.2: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
(a) 
protect human, animal or plant life or health in the Parties 
through the development, adoption, and application of 
sanitary and phytosanitary measures, while facilitating 
trade by minimising the negative effects on trade among 
the Parties; 
 
(b) 
enhance the practical implementation of the SPS 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
enhance the transparency and understanding of the 
development and application of sanitary and phytosanitary 
measures of the Parties; 
 
 
5-2 
(d) 
strengthen cooperation, communication, and consultation 
among the Parties in the field of sanitary and phytosanitary 
measures; and 
 
(e) 
encourage the Parties’ participation in the development 
and adoption of international standards, guidelines, and 
recommendations. 
 
 
Article 5.3: Scope 
 
This Chapter shall apply to all sanitary and phytosanitary measures of 
the Parties, which may, directly or indirectly, affect trade among the 
Parties. 
 
 
Article 5.4: General Provision 
 
Each Party affirms its rights and obligations with respect to each other 
Party under the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
Article 5.5: Equivalence 
 
1. 
The Parties shall strengthen cooperation on equivalence in 
accordance with the SPS Agreement while taking into account the 
relevant decisions of the WTO Committee on Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Measures (hereinafter referred to as “WTO SPS 
Committee” in this Chapter) and international standards, 
guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
2. 
An importing Party shall recognise the equivalence of a sanitary 
or phytosanitary measure if an exporting Party objectively 
demonstrates to the importing Party that the exporting Party’s 
measure achieves the same level of protection as the importing 
Party’s measure, or that the exporting Party’s measure has the 
same effect in achieving the objective as the importing Party’s 
measure. 
 
3. 
In determining the equivalence of a sanitary or phytosanitary 
measure, the importing Party shall take into account available 
knowledge, information, and experience, as well as the regulatory 
competence, of the exporting Party. 
 
4. 
A Party shall, upon request, enter into consultation with the aim 
of 
achieving 
bilateral 
recognition 
arrangements 
on 
the 
 
5-3 
equivalence of specified sanitary or phytosanitary measures.  The 
recognition of equivalence under such bilateral recognition 
arrangements may be with respect to a single measure, a group 
of measures, or on a systems-wide basis.  For this purpose, 
reasonable access shall be given by the exporting Party, upon 
request, to the importing Party for inspection, testing, and other 
relevant procedures. 
 
5. 
As part of the consultation for equivalence recognition, on request 
of the exporting Party, the importing Party shall explain and 
provide: 
 
(a) 
the rationale and objective of its measures; and 
 
(b) 
the specific risks its measures are intended to address. 
 
6. 
The exporting Party shall provide necessary information in order 
for the importing Party to commence an equivalence assessment.  
Once the assessment commences, the importing Party shall, 
upon request, and without undue delay, explain the process and 
plan for making an equivalence determination. 
 
7. 
The consideration by a Party of a request from another Party for 
recognition of the equivalence of its measures with regard to a 
specific product, or group of products, shall not be in itself a 
reason to disrupt or suspend ongoing imports from the Party of 
the product or products in question. 
 
8. 
When an importing Party recognises the equivalence of an 
exporting Party’s specific sanitary or phytosanitary measure, 
group of measures, or measures on a systems-wide basis, the 
importing Party shall communicate the decision in writing to the 
exporting Party and implement the measure within a reasonable 
period of time.  The rationale shall be provided in writing by the 
importing Party in the event that the decision is negative. 
 
9. 
The Parties involved in a positive determination of equivalence 
are encouraged, where mutually agreed, to share information and 
experiences at the Committee on Goods. 
 
 
Article 5.6: Adaptation to Regional Conditions, including Pest- or 
Disease-Free Areas and Areas of Low Pest or Disease Prevalence 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the concepts of regional conditions, 
including pest- or disease-free areas and areas of low pest or 
 
5-4 
disease prevalence.  The Parties shall take into account the 
relevant decisions of the WTO SPS Committee and international 
standards, guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
2. 
The Parties may cooperate on the recognition of regional 
conditions with the objective of acquiring confidence in the 
procedures followed by each Party for such recognition. 
 
3. 
On request of an exporting Party, an importing Party shall, without 
undue delay, explain its process and plan for making a 
determination of regional conditions. 
 
4. 
When an importing Party has received a request for a 
determination of regional conditions from an exporting Party and 
has determined that the information provided by the exporting 
Party is sufficient, it shall initiate the assessment within a 
reasonable period of time. 
 
5. 
For such an assessment, reasonable access shall be given by the 
exporting Party, upon request, to the importing Party for 
inspection, testing, and other relevant procedures. 
 
6. 
On request of the exporting Party, the importing Party shall inform 
the exporting Party of the status of the assessment. 
 
7. 
When an importing Party recognises specific regional conditions 
of an exporting Party, the importing Party shall communicate that 
decision to the exporting Party in writing and implement the 
measures within a reasonable period of time. 
 
8. 
If the evaluation of the evidence provided by the exporting Party 
does not result in a decision by the importing Party to recognise 
the regional conditions, the importing Party shall provide the 
exporting Party with the rationale for its decision in writing within 
a reasonable period of time. 
 
9. 
The Parties involved in a determination recognising regional 
conditions are encouraged, where mutually agreed, to report the 
outcome to the Committee on Goods. 
 
 
Article 5.7: Risk Analysis 
 
1. 
The Parties shall strengthen their cooperation on risk analysis in 
accordance with the SPS Agreement while taking into account the 
 
5-5 
relevant decisions of the WTO SPS Committee and international 
standards, guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
2. 
When conducting a risk analysis, an importing Party shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the risk analysis is documented and that it 
provides the relevant exporting Party or Parties with an 
opportunity to comment, in a manner to be determined by 
the importing Party; 
 
(b) 
consider risk management options that are not more trade 
restrictive than required1 to achieve its appropriate level of 
sanitary or phytosanitary protection; and 
 
(c) 
select a risk management option that is not more trade 
restrictive than required to achieve its appropriate level of 
sanitary or phytosanitary protection, taking into account 
technical and economic feasibility. 
 
3. 
On request of an exporting Party, an importing Party shall inform 
the exporting Party of the progress of a specific risk analysis 
request, and of any delay that may occur during the process. 
 
4. 
Without prejudice to emergency measures, no Party shall stop the 
importation of a good of another Party solely for the reason that 
the importing Party is undertaking a review of a sanitary or 
phytosanitary measure, if the importing Party permitted 
importation of the good of the other Party at the time of the 
initiation of the review. 
 
 
Article 5.8: Audit2 
 
1. 
In undertaking an audit, each Party shall take into account the 
relevant decisions of the WTO SPS Committee and international 
standards, guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
 
1 For the purpose of subparagraphs (b) and (c), a risk management option is not more 
trade restrictive than required unless there is another option reasonably available, 
taking into account technical and economic feasibility, that achieves the appropriate 
level of sanitary or phytosanitary protection and is significantly less restrictive to trade. 
 
2 For greater certainty, without affecting the implementation of this Article, nothing in 
this Article prevents a Party from adopting or maintaining halal requirements for food 
and food products in accordance with Islamic law. 
 
 
5-6 
2. 
An audit shall be systems-based and conducted to assess the 
effectiveness of the regulatory controls of the competent 
authorities of the exporting Party to provide the required 
assurances and meet the sanitary and phytosanitary measures of 
the importing Party.3 
 
3. 
Prior to the commencement of an audit, the importing Party and 
exporting Party involved shall exchange information on the 
objectives and scope of the audit and other matters related 
specifically to the commencement of an audit. 
 
4. 
The importing Party shall provide the exporting Party with an 
opportunity to comment on the finding of an audit and take any 
such comments into account before making its conclusions and 
taking any action.  The importing Party shall provide a report or its 
summary, setting out its conclusions in writing to the exporting 
Party within a reasonable period of time.  The importing Party shall 
inform the exporting Party if a request is required to provide such 
report or summary. 
 
 
Article 5.9: Certification  
 
1. 
In applying certification requirements, each Party shall take into 
account the relevant decisions of the WTO SPS Committee and 
international standards, guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
2. 
An exporting Party shall ensure that the documents, including 
certificates, that are required by an importing Party and provided 
by the competent authorities of the exporting Party, to demonstrate 
the fulfilment of the sanitary and phytosanitary requirements of the 
importing Party, are in the English language, unless the importing 
Party and exporting Party agree otherwise.4  When the importing 
Party requires such documents, the importing Party shall 
endeavour to provide the requirements for such documents in the 
English language.  Upon request, the importing Party shall provide 
a summary or explanation of such requirements. 
 
3 For greater certainty, nothing in this paragraph prevents an importing Party from 
performing an inspection of a facility for the purposes of determining if the facility 
conforms with the importing Party’s sanitary or phytosanitary requirements or conforms 
with sanitary or phytosanitary requirements that the importing Party has determined to 
be equivalent to its sanitary or phytosanitary requirements. 
 
4 For greater certainty, this provision does not prevent the Parties from including 
information for certification in other languages in addition to the English language. 
 
 
5-7 
 
3. 
The Parties recognise that an importing Party may, as appropriate, 
allow assurances with respect to sanitary or phytosanitary 
requirements to be provided through means other than certificates, 
and that different systems may be capable of meeting the same 
sanitary and phytosanitary objectives. 
 
4. 
Where certification is required for trade in a good, the importing 
Party shall ensure that such certification requirements are applied 
only to the extent necessary to protect human, animal or plant life 
or health. 
 
5. 
Without prejudice to each Party’s right to import controls, the 
importing Party shall accept certificates issued by the competent 
authorities of the exporting Party that are in compliance with the 
regulatory requirements of the importing Party. 
 
 
Article 5.10: Import Checks 
 
1. 
In applying import checks, each Party shall take into account the 
relevant decisions of the WTO SPS Committee and international 
standards, guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
2. 
Import checks, conducted in accordance with the importing Party’s 
laws, regulations, and sanitary and phytosanitary requirements, 
shall be based on the sanitary and phytosanitary risk associated 
with importations.  In the event that import checks reveal a non-
compliance, the final decision or action taken by the importing 
Party shall be appropriate to the sanitary and phytosanitary risk 
associated with the importation of the non-compliant product. 
 
3. 
If an importing Party prohibits or restricts the importation of a good 
of an exporting Party on the basis of non-compliance of that good 
found during an import check, the importing Party shall notify the 
importer or its representatives and, if the importing Party considers 
necessary, the exporting Party of such non-compliance. 
 
4. 
When significant or recurring sanitary or phytosanitary non-
compliance associated with exported consignments is identified by 
the importing Party, the Parties concerned shall, on request of 
either Party, discuss the non-compliance to ensure that 
appropriate remedial actions are taken to reduce such non-
compliance. 
 
 
 
5-8 
Article 5.11: Emergency Measures 
 
1. 
If a Party adopts an emergency measure that is necessary for the 
protection of human, animal or plant life or health and that may 
have an effect on trade, that Party shall immediately notify the 
relevant exporting Parties in writing through the contact point or 
contact points designated under Article 5.15 (Contact Points and 
Competent Authorities) or already established communication 
channels of the Parties. 
 
2. 
The relevant exporting Parties may request discussions with the 
Party adopting an emergency measure referred to in paragraph 
1.  Such discussions shall be held as soon as practicable.  Each 
Party participating in the discussions shall endeavour to provide 
relevant information, and shall take due account of any 
information provided through the discussions. 
 
3. 
If a Party adopts an emergency measure, it shall review that 
measure within a reasonable period of time or on request of the 
exporting Party.  The importing Party may, if necessary, request 
relevant information and the exporting Party shall endeavour to 
provide the relevant information to assist the importing Party in its 
review of the adopted emergency measure.  The importing Party 
shall provide the result of the review to the exporting Party upon 
request.  If the emergency measure is maintained after the review, 
the importing Party should review the measure periodically based 
on the most recent available information, and upon request, shall 
explain the reason for the continuation of the emergency 
measure. 
 
 
Article 5.12: Transparency 
 
1.  
The Parties recognise the importance of transparency as set out 
in Annex B of the SPS Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Parties recognise the importance of the exchange of 
information on the development, adoption, and application of 
sanitary and phytosanitary measures that may have significant 
effects on trade among the Parties. 
 
3. 
In implementing this Article, the Parties shall take into account the 
relevant decisions of the WTO SPS Committee and international 
standards, guidelines, and recommendations. 
 
 
5-9 
4. 
Each Party shall notify proposed measures or changes to sanitary 
or phytosanitary measures that may have a significant effect on 
the trade of other Parties through the online WTO Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary Measures Notification Submission System, the 
contact points designated under Article 5.15 (Contact Points and 
Competent Authorities), or already established communication 
channels of the Parties. 
 
5. 
Unless urgent problems of health protection arise or threaten to 
arise, or the measure is of a trade facilitating nature, a Party shall 
normally allow a period of at least 60 days for other Parties to 
provide written comments after it makes a notification pursuant to 
paragraph 4.  A Party shall consider reasonable requests from 
another Party to extend the comment period. 
 
6. 
As part of the comment period referred to in paragraph 5, on 
request of another Party and if appropriate and feasible, the 
notifying Party shall consider any scientific or trade concerns and 
the availability of alternatives that the other Party may raise 
regarding the proposed measure. 
 
7. 
Upon request, a Party shall, within 30 days of the request, provide 
the requesting Party with the documents or a summary of the 
documents describing the requirements of draft sanitary or 
phytosanitary measures notified to the WTO pursuant to 
paragraph 4, in the English language. 
 
8. 
Following the notification of sanitary or phytosanitary measures to 
the WTO, upon request, a Party shall provide the requesting Party 
with the documents or a summary of the documents describing the 
requirements of the adopted sanitary or phytosanitary measures, 
within a reasonable period of time as agreed by the relevant 
Parties, in the English language. 
 
9. 
A Party, on reasonable request of another Party, shall provide 
relevant information and clarification regarding any sanitary or 
phytosanitary measure to the requesting Party, within a 
reasonable period of time, including: 
 
(a) 
the sanitary or phytosanitary requirements that apply to the 
import of specific products; 
  
(b) 
the status of the requesting Party’s application; and 
 
(c) 
procedures for authorising the import of specific products.  
 
 
5-10 
10. 
An exporting Party shall provide timely and appropriate 
information to relevant Parties through the contact points 
designated under Article 5.15 (Contact Points and Competent 
Authorities) or already established communication channels of 
the Parties, where there is a significant change in animal or plant 
health status or food safety issues in that exporting Party that may 
affect trade. 
 
11. 
An importing Party shall provide timely and appropriate 
information to relevant Parties through the contact points 
designated under Article 5.15 (Contact Points and Competent 
Authorities) or already established communication channels of 
the Parties, where there is: 
 
(a) 
significant or recurring sanitary or phytosanitary non-
compliance associated with exported consignments 
identified by the importing Party; or 
 
(b) 
a sanitary or phytosanitary measure adopted provisionally 
against or affecting the export of another Party considered 
necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health 
within the importing Party. 
 
12. 
An exporting Party shall, to the extent possible and as promptly 
as possible, provide information to the importing Party if the 
exporting Party identifies that an export consignment that may be 
associated with a significant sanitary or phytosanitary risk has 
been exported. 
 
 
Article 5.13: Cooperation and Capacity Building 
 
1. 
The Parties shall explore opportunities for further cooperation 
among the Parties, including capacity building, technical 
assistance, collaboration, and information exchange, on sanitary 
and phytosanitary matters of mutual interest, consistent with this 
Chapter, subject to the availability of appropriate resources. 
 
2. 
Any two or more Parties may cooperate on any matter, including 
sector specific proposals, of mutual interest under this Chapter. 
 
3. 
In undertaking cooperation activities, the Parties shall endeavour 
to coordinate with bilateral, regional, or multilateral work 
programmes, with the objective of avoiding unnecessary 
duplication and maximising the use of resources. 
 
 
5-11 
4. 
The Parties are encouraged to share information and the 
experiences of their cooperation activities with other Parties at the 
Committee on Goods. 
 
 
Article 5.14: Technical Consultation 
 
1. 
Where a Party considers that a sanitary or phytosanitary measure 
is affecting its trade with another Party, it may, through the contact 
points designated under Article 5.15 (Contact Points and 
Competent Authorities) or already established communication 
channels, request a detailed explanation of the sanitary or 
phytosanitary measure.  The other Party shall respond promptly 
to any request for such explanation. 
 
2. 
A Party may request to hold technical consultations with another 
Party in an attempt to resolve any concerns on specific issues 
arising from the application of the sanitary or phytosanitary 
measure.  The requested Party shall respond promptly to any 
reasonable request for such consultation.  The consulting Parties 
shall make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution. 
 
3. 
Where a Party requests technical consultations, these shall take 
place within 30 days of the receipt of the request, unless 
otherwise agreed.  Such consultation should aim to resolve the 
matter within 180 days of the date of the request, or a time frame 
agreed by the consulting Parties. 
 
4. 
The 
technical 
consultations 
may 
be 
conducted 
via 
teleconference, videoconference, or through any other means 
agreed by the consulting Parties. 
 
 
Article 5.15: Contact Points and Competent Authorities 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement for that Party: 
 
(a) 
designate one or more contact points to facilitate 
communication on matters covered under this Chapter; 
 
(b) 
notify the other Parties of the contact details of that contact 
point or those contact points; and 
 
(c) 
when more than one contact point is designated, specify a 
contact point that serves as the focal point to respond to 
 
5-12 
enquiries from another Party on the appropriate contact 
point with which to communicate. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall provide the other Parties, through the contact 
points, a description of its competent authorities and the division 
of their functions and responsibilities. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall notify the other Parties of any change to the 
contact points and significant changes in the structure, 
organisation, and division of responsibility within its competent 
authorities.  Each Party shall keep this information up to date. 
  
4. 
The Parties recognise the importance of the competent 
authorities in the implementation of this Chapter.  Accordingly, the 
competent authorities of the Parties may cooperate with each 
other on matters covered by this Chapter in a manner to be 
agreed.  The Parties are encouraged to share information and 
experiences of such cooperation of their competent authorities 
with the Committee on Goods where the Parties agree to do so. 
 
 
Article 5.16: Implementation 
 
The Parties may, where mutually agreed, develop bilateral or plurilateral 
arrangements to set out mutually determined understandings and details 
for applying this Chapter.  The Parties that have adopted such 
arrangements under this Chapter are encouraged, where mutually 
agreed, to report such arrangements to the Committee on Goods. 
 
 
Article 5.17: Dispute Settlement 
 
1. 
Chapter 19 (Dispute Settlement) shall not apply to this Chapter at 
the entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The non-application of Chapter 19 (Dispute Settlement) shall be 
subject to review two years after the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement.  In the course of the review, Parties shall give due 
consideration to the application of Chapter 19 (Dispute 
Settlement) to either the whole or parts of this Chapter.  Such a 
review shall be completed within three years from the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement.  After which those Parties that are 
ready shall proceed to apply Chapter 19 (Dispute Settlement) to 
this Chapter as between one another.  A Party that is not ready 
will consult other Parties and may apply Chapter 19 (Dispute 
Settlement) to this Chapter when it becomes party to any future 
 
5-13 
free trade agreement or economic agreement in which it takes on 
a similar obligation. 
 
 
