 
14-1 
CHAPTER 14 
 
SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES 
 
 
Article 14.1: Objectives 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that small and medium enterprises, 
including micro enterprises, contribute significantly to economic 
growth, employment, and innovation, and therefore seek to 
promote information sharing and cooperation in increasing the 
ability of small and medium enterprises to utilise and benefit from 
the opportunities created by this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Parties acknowledge the provisions of various Chapters in 
this Agreement that contribute to encouraging and facilitating the 
participation of small and medium enterprises in this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 14.2: Information Sharing 
 
1. 
Each Party shall promote the sharing of information related to this 
Agreement that is relevant to small and medium enterprises, 
including through the establishment and maintenance of a 
publicly accessible information platform, and information 
exchange to share knowledge, experiences, and best practices 
among the Parties. 
 
2. 
The information to be made publicly accessible in accordance 
with paragraph 1 will include: 
 
(a) 
the full text of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
information on trade and investment-related laws and 
regulations that the Party considers relevant to small and 
medium enterprises; and 
 
(c) 
additional business-related information that the Party 
considers useful for small and medium enterprises 
interested in benefitting from the opportunities provided by 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall take reasonable steps to ensure that information 
referred to in paragraph 2 is accurate and up-to-date. 
 
 
 
14-2 
Article 14.3: Cooperation 
 
The Parties shall strengthen their cooperation under this Chapter, which 
may include: 
 
(a) 
encouraging efficient and effective implementation of 
facilitative and transparent trade rules and regulations; 
 
(b) 
improving small and medium enterprises’ access to 
markets and participation in global value chains, including 
by 
promoting 
and 
facilitating 
partnerships 
among 
businesses; 
 
(c) 
promoting the use of electronic commerce by small and 
medium enterprises; 
 
(d) 
exploring opportunities for exchanges of experiences 
among Parties’ entrepreneurial programmes; 
 
(e) 
encouraging innovation and use of technology; 
 
(f) 
promoting awareness, understanding, and effective use of 
the intellectual property system among small and medium 
enterprises; 
 
(g) 
promoting good regulatory practices and building capacity 
in formulating regulations, policies, and programmes that 
contribute to small and medium enterprise development; 
and 
 
(h) 
sharing best practices on enhancing the capability and 
competitiveness of small and medium enterprises. 
 
 
Article 14.4: Contact Points 
 
Each Party shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement for that Party, designate one or more contact points to 
facilitate cooperation and information sharing under this Chapter and 
notify the other Parties of the contact details of that contact point or those 
contact points.  Each Party shall notify the other Parties of any change 
to those contact details. 
 
 
 
 
14-3 
Article 14.5: Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Dispute settlement mechanisms in this Agreement shall not apply to any 
matter arising under this Chapter. 
 
 
