 
CHAPTER 9 
 
TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
 
Article 9.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  immigration  formality  means  a  visa,  permit,  pass,  or 
other document, or electronic authority, granting temporary 
entry; 
 
(b)  natural person of a Party means a natural person of a 
Party  as  defined  in  subparagraph  (i)  of  Article  8.1 
(Definitions); and 
 
(c)  temporary entry means entry by a natural person of a 
Party as covered by this Chapter without the intent to 
establish permanent residence. 
 
 
Article 9.2: Scope 
 
1.   This Chapter shall apply, as set out in each Party’s Schedule in 
Annex IV (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary 
Movement  of  Natural  Persons),  to  measures  by  that  Party 
affecting the temporary entry of natural persons of another Party 
into the territory of the Party, where such persons are engaged in 
trade  in  goods,  the  supply  of  services,  or  the  conduct  of 
investment.    Such  persons  shall  include  one  or  more  of  the 
following: 
 
(a)  business visitors;  
 
(b)  intra-corporate transferees; or 
 
(c)  other  categories  as  may  be  specified  in  each  Party’s 
Schedule  in  Annex  IV  (Schedules  of  Specific 
Commitments  on  Temporary  Movement  of  Natural 
Persons). 
 
2.  This  Chapter  shall  not  apply  to  measures  affecting  natural 
persons seeking access to the employment market of a Party, nor 
shall  it  apply  to  measures  regarding  nationality,  citizenship, 
residence or employment on a permanent basis. 
9-1  
 
3.  Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from applying 
measures to regulate the entry of natural persons of another Party 
into,  or  their  temporary  stay  in,  its  territory,  including  those 
measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the 
orderly movement of natural persons across, its borders, provided 
that those measures are not applied in a manner as to nullify or 
impair the benefits accruing to any Party under this Chapter. 
 
4.  The sole fact that a Party requires natural persons of another 
Party to obtain an immigration formality shall not be regarded as 
nullifying or impairing the benefits accruing to any Party under this 
Chapter. 
 
 
Article 9.3: Spouses and Dependants 
 
Each Party may make commitments on spouses or dependants in its 
Schedule  in  Annex  IV  (Schedules  of  Specific  Commitments  on 
Temporary Movement of Natural Persons). 
 
 
Article 9.4: Grant of Temporary Entry 
 
1.   Each Party shall, in accordance with its Schedule in Annex IV 
(Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of 
Natural  Persons),  grant  temporary  entry  or  extension  of 
temporary stay in accordance with this Chapter to natural persons 
of another Party, provided that those natural persons: 
 
(a)  follow  prescribed  application  procedures  for  the 
immigration formality sought; and 
 
(b)  meet  all  relevant  eligibility  requirements  for  temporary 
entry into, or extension of temporary stay in, the granting 
Party. 
 
2.  In accordance with its laws and regulations, any fees imposed by 
a Party in respect of the processing of an immigration formality 
shall be reasonable in that they do not, in themselves, represent 
an unjustifiable impediment to the movement of natural persons 
of another Party under this Chapter. 
 
3.  A Party may deny temporary entry or extension of temporary stay 
to any natural person of another Party who does not comply with 
subparagraph 1(a) or (b). 
9-2  
 
4.  The sole fact that a Party grants temporary entry to a natural 
person of another Party pursuant to this Chapter shall not be 
construed  to  exempt  that  natural  person  from  meeting  any 
applicable  licensing  or  other  requirements,  including  any 
mandatory codes of conduct, to practise a profession or otherwise 
engage in business activities. 
 
 
Article  9.5:  Schedules  of  Specific  Commitments  on  Temporary 
Movement of Natural Persons 
 
Each Party shall set out in its Schedule in Annex IV (Schedules of 
Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of Natural Persons) its 
commitments for the temporary entry into and temporary stay in its 
territory  of  natural  persons  of  another  Party  covered  by  Article  9.2 
(Scope).  These Schedules shall specify the conditions and limitations 
governing those commitments, including the length of stay, for each 
category of natural persons included therein.1 
 
 
Article 9.6: Processing of Applications 
 
1.  Where an application for an immigration formality is required by a 
Party,  that  Party  shall  process,  as  expeditiously  as  possible, 
complete applications for immigration formalities or extensions 
thereof received from natural persons of another Party covered 
by Article 9.2 (Scope). 
 
2.  Each Party shall, upon request and within a reasonable period 
after receiving a complete application for an immigration formality 
from a natural person of another Party covered by Article 9.2 
(Scope), notify the applicant of: 
 
(a)  the receipt of the application; and 
 
(b)  the  decision  concerning  the  application  including,  if 
approved, the period of stay and other conditions. 
 
 
1 For the purposes of this Article, conditions and limitations include any economic needs 
testing requirement, which no Party may impose unless specified in its Schedule in 
Annex IV (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of Natural 
Persons). 
 
9-3  
3.  Each Party shall, upon request and within a reasonable period 
after receiving a complete application for an immigration formality 
from a natural person of another Party covered by Article 9.2 
(Scope), endeavour to notify the applicant of the status of the 
application. 
 
4.  To the extent permissible under its laws and regulations, each 
Party  shall  endeavour  to  accept  applications  for  immigration 
formalities in electronic format under the equivalent conditions of 
authenticity as paper submissions. 
 
5.  Where appropriate, each Party shall accept copies of documents 
authenticated in accordance with its laws and regulations in place 
of  original  documents,  to  the  extent  its  laws  and  regulations 
permit. 
 
 
Article 9.7: Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  publish or otherwise make publicly available explanatory 
material  on  all  relevant  immigration  formalities  which 
pertain to or affect the operation of this Chapter; 
 
(b)  publish or otherwise make publicly available in its territory 
and to the other Parties, the requirements for temporary 
entry under this Chapter, including explanatory material 
and relevant forms and documents that will enable natural 
persons of the other Parties to become acquainted with 
those requirements; 
 
(c)  upon modifying or amending any immigration measure that 
affects  temporary  entry  of  natural  persons  of  another 
Party, ensure that the information published or otherwise 
made publicly available pursuant to subparagraph (b) is 
updated as soon as possible; and 
 
(d)  maintain  mechanisms  to  respond  to  enquiries  from 
interested  persons  regarding  its  laws  and  regulations 
affecting the temporary entry and temporary stay of natural 
persons. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to publish, to the extent practicable, 
the information referred to in paragraph 1 in the English language. 
 
9-4  
Article 9.8: Cooperation 
 
The Parties may discuss mutually agreed areas of cooperation to further 
facilitate the temporary entry and temporary stay of natural persons of 
the other Parties, which shall take into consideration areas proposed by 
the Parties during the course of negotiations or other areas as may be 
identified by the Parties. 
 
 
Article 9.9: Dispute Settlement 
 
1.  Parties shall endeavour to settle any differences arising out of the 
implementation of this Chapter through consultations. 
 
2.  No Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 
19 (Dispute Settlement) regarding a refusal to grant temporary 
entry unless: 
 
(a)  the matter involves a pattern of practice; and 
 
(b)  the natural persons affected have exhausted all available 
administrative remedies regarding the particular matter. 
 
3.  For  the  purposes  of  subparagraph  2(b),  the  administrative 
remedies shall be deemed to be exhausted if a final determination 
in the matter has not been issued by the other Party within a 
reasonable  period  of  time  after  the  date  of  institution  of  the 
proceedings for the remedy, including any proceedings for review 
or appeal, and the failure to issue such a determination is not 
attributable to delays caused by the natural persons concerned. 
 
 
9-5 