 
CHAPTER 16 
 
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
 
 
Article 16.1: Objectives 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of promoting the transparency of 
laws, regulations, and procedures, and developing cooperation among 
the Parties, regarding government procurement. 
 
 
Article 16.2: Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to the laws, regulations, and procedures 
of a Party regarding government procurement implemented by its 
central government entities, as defined or notified by that Party 
for the purposes of this Chapter. 
 
2.  Nothing in this Chapter shall require a Least Developed Country 
Party to undertake any obligation regarding transparency and 
cooperation.  A Least Developed Country Party may benefit from 
cooperation among the Parties. 
 
 
Article 16.3: Principles 
 
The Parties recognise the role of government procurement in furthering 
the economic integration of the region so as to promote growth and 
employment.  Where government procurement is expressly open to 
international competition, each Party, to the extent possible and as 
appropriate, shall conduct its government procurement in accordance 
with generally accepted government procurement principles as applied 
by that Party. 
 
 
Article 16.4: Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall: 
 
(a)  make publicly available its laws and regulations; and 
 
(b)  endeavour to make publicly available its procedures, 
 
 regarding  government  procurement,  which  may  include 
information on where tender opportunities are published. 
16-1  
 
2  To the extent possible and as appropriate, each Party endeavours 
to  make  available  and  update  the  information  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1 through electronic means. 
 
3.  Each Party may specify in Annex 16A (Paper or Electronic Means 
Utilised  by  Parties  for  the  Publication  of  Transparency 
Information) the paper or electronic means utilised by that Party 
to publish the information referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
4.  Each Party endeavours to make the information referred to in 
paragraph 1 available in the English language. 
 
 
Article 16.5: Cooperation 
 
The Parties endeavour to cooperate on matters relating to government 
procurement with a view to achieving a better understanding of each 
Party’s respective government procurement systems.  Such cooperation 
may include: 
 
(a)  exchanging information, to the extent possible, on Parties’ 
laws, regulations, and procedures, and any modifications 
thereof; 
 
(b)  providing  training,  technical  assistance,  or  capacity 
building  to  Parties,  and  sharing  information  on  these 
initiatives; 
 
(c)  sharing  information,  where  possible,  on  best  practices, 
including  those  in  relation  to  small  and  medium 
enterprises, including micro enterprises; and 
 
(d)  sharing  information,  where  possible,  on  electronic 
procurement systems. 
 
 
Article 16.6: Review 
 
The Parties may review this Chapter within the period stipulated in Article 
20.8 (General Review) with a view to improving this Chapter in the future 
to facilitate government procurement, as agreed by the Parties. 
 
 
   
16-2  
Article 16.7: Contact Points 
 
Each Party shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement  for  that  Party,  designate  one  or  more  contact  points  to 
facilitate cooperation and information sharing under this Chapter and 
notify the other Parties of the relevant details of that contact point or 
those contact points.  Each Party shall promptly notify the other Parties 
of any change regarding the relevant details of its contact point or 
contact points. 
 
 
Article 16.8: Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Dispute settlement mechanisms in this Agreement shall not apply to any 
matter arising under this Chapter. 
 
 
16-3 