 
6-1 
CHAPTER 6 
 
STANDARDS, TECHNICAL REGULATIONS, AND CONFORMITY 
ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES 
 
 
Article 6.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, the terms and their definitions provided 
in Annex 1 of the TBT Agreement shall apply. 
 
 
Article 6.2: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to facilitate trade in goods among the 
Parties by: 
 
(a) 
ensuring that standards, technical regulations, and 
conformity 
assessment 
procedures 
do 
not 
create 
unnecessary obstacles to trade; 
 
(b) 
enhancing the implementation of the TBT Agreement; 
 
(c) 
promoting 
mutual 
understanding 
of 
each 
Party’s 
standards, 
technical 
regulations, 
and 
conformity 
assessment procedures; 
 
(d) 
strengthening information exchange and cooperation 
among the Parties in the field of standards, technical 
regulations, and conformity assessment procedures 
including in the work of relevant international bodies; 
 
(e) 
addressing the issues that may arise under this Chapter; 
and 
 
(f) 
providing a framework to realise these objectives. 
 
 
Article 6.3: Scope  
 
1. 
This Chapter shall apply to the standards, technical regulations, 
and conformity assessment procedures of central government 
bodies that may affect trade in goods among the Parties.  This 
Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
 
6-2 
(a) 
any sanitary or phytosanitary measure, which is covered 
by Chapter 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures); and 
 
(b) 
purchasing specifications prepared by governmental 
bodies for production or consumption requirements of 
governmental bodies. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be 
available to it to ensure compliance, in the implementation of this 
Chapter, by local government bodies and non-governmental 
bodies within its territory which are responsible for the 
preparation, adoption, and application of standards, technical 
regulations, and conformity assessment procedures. 
 
3. 
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from preparing, 
adopting, 
applying, 
or 
maintaining 
standards, 
technical 
regulations, and conformity assessment procedures in a manner 
consistent with the TBT Agreement and this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 6.4: Affirmation and Incorporation of the TBT Agreement 
 
1. 
Each Party affirms its rights and obligations under the TBT 
Agreement and the following provisions of the TBT Agreement 
are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis 
mutandis: 
 
(a) 
Article 2, except paragraphs 4, 7, 8, and 12; 
 
(b) 
paragraph 2 of Article 4; 
 
(c) 
Article 5, except paragraph 4; 
 
(d) 
paragraph 3 of Article 6; 
 
(e) 
paragraph 1 of Article 9; and 
 
(f) 
Annex 3, except paragraph A. 
 
2. 
In the event of any inconsistency between any provision of the 
TBT Agreement incorporated under paragraph 1 and other 
provisions of this Chapter, the latter shall prevail. 
 
3. 
No Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 
19 (Dispute Settlement) for any dispute that exclusively alleges a 
 
6-3 
violation of the provisions of the TBT Agreement incorporated 
under paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 
6.5: 
International 
Standards, 
Guides, 
and 
Recommendations 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the important role that international 
standards, guides, and recommendations can play in the 
harmonisation of technical regulations, conformity assessment 
procedures, and national standards, and in reducing unnecessary 
barriers to trade. 
 
2. 
In determining whether an international standard, guide, or 
recommendation within the meaning of Articles 2 and 5 and 
Annex 3 of the TBT Agreement exists, each Party takes into 
account the principles set out in the Decision of the Committee on 
Principles for the Development of International Standards, Guides 
and Recommendations with relation to Articles 2, 5 and Annex 3 
of the Agreement (G/TBT/9, 13 November 2000, Annex 4), and 
subsequent relevant decisions and recommendations in this 
regard, adopted by the WTO Committee on Technical Barriers to 
Trade (hereinafter referred to as “WTO TBT Committee” in this 
Chapter). 
 
3. 
The Parties shall, where appropriate, strengthen coordination and 
communication with each other in the context of discussions on 
international standards and related issues in other international 
fora, such as the WTO TBT Committee. 
 
 
Article 6.6: Standards 
 
1. 
With respect to the preparation, adoption, and application of 
standards, each Party shall ensure that its standardising body or 
bodies that prepare, adopt, and apply national standards accept 
and comply with Annex 3 of the TBT Agreement. 
 
2. 
Where modifications to the contents or structure of the relevant 
international standards were necessary in developing a Party’s 
national standards, that Party shall, on request of another Party, 
encourage its standardising body or bodies to provide what the 
differences in the contents and structure are, and the reason for 
those differences.  Any fees charged for this service shall, apart 
from the real cost of delivery, be the same for foreign and 
domestic persons. 
 
6-4 
 
3. 
Further to paragraph 2, each Party shall ensure that its 
standardising body or bodies ensure that the modifications of the 
contents and structure of international standards are not 
prepared, adopted, or applied with a view to, or with the effect of, 
creating unnecessary obstacles to international trade. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall encourage cooperation between the relevant 
standardising body or bodies in its territory and the standardising 
body or bodies of other Parties, in areas such as: 
 
(a) 
exchange of information on standards; 
 
(b) 
exchange of information relating to standard setting 
procedures; and 
 
(c) 
international standardising activities in areas of mutual 
interest. 
 
 
Article 6.7: Technical Regulations 
 
1. 
Each Party shall use relevant international standards or the 
relevant parts of them, to the extent provided in paragraph 4 of 
Article 2 of the TBT Agreement, as a basis for its technical 
regulations.  Where a Party does not use such international 
standards, or their relevant parts, as a basis for its technical 
regulations, it shall, on request of another Party, explain the 
reasons therefor. 
 
2. 
In implementing paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the TBT Agreement, 
each Party shall consider available alternatives in order to ensure 
that the proposed technical regulations to be adopted are not 
more trade-restrictive than necessary to fulfil a legitimate 
objective. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall give positive consideration to accepting as 
equivalent, technical regulations of another Party, even if those 
regulations differ from its own, provided it is satisfied that those 
regulations adequately fulfil the objectives of its own regulations. 
 
4. 
Where a Party does not accept a technical regulation of another 
Party as equivalent to its own, it shall, on request of the other 
Party, explain the reasons for its decision. 
 
 
6-5 
5. 
In implementing paragraph 8 of Article 2 of the TBT Agreement, 
when a Party does not specify technical regulations based on 
product requirements in terms of performance rather than design 
or descriptive characteristics, the Party shall, on request of 
another Party, provide its reason therefor. 
 
6. 
Except where urgent problems of safety, health, environmental 
protection, or national security arise or threaten to arise, Parties 
shall allow a reasonable interval between the publication of 
technical regulations and their entry into force in order to provide 
sufficient time for producers in exporting Parties to adapt their 
products or methods of production to the requirements of 
importing Parties.  For the purposes of this paragraph, 
“reasonable interval” shall be understood to mean normally a 
period of not less than six months, except when this would be 
ineffective in fulfilling the legitimate objectives pursued by the 
technical regulation. 
 
7. 
On request of a Party that has an interest in developing a 
technical regulation similar to a technical regulation of another 
Party, the requested Party shall provide, to the extent practicable, 
relevant information, including studies or documents, except for 
confidential information, on which it has relied in its development. 
 
8. 
Each Party shall uniformly and consistently apply its technical 
regulations that are prepared and adopted by its central 
government bodies to its whole territory.  For greater certainty, 
nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent local 
government bodies from preparing, adopting, and applying 
additional technical regulations in a manner consistent with the 
provisions of the TBT Agreement. 
 
 
Article 6.8: Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1. 
Further to paragraph 4 of Article 5 of the TBT Agreement, each 
Party shall ensure that central government bodies use relevant 
international standards or their relevant parts as a basis for their 
conformity assessment procedures, except where, as duly 
explained upon request, such international standards or relevant 
parts are inappropriate for the Party concerned, for, inter alia, 
such reasons as: national security requirements; the prevention 
of deceptive practices; protection of human health or safety, 
animal or plant life or health, or the environment; fundamental 
climatic or other geographical factors; fundamental technological 
or infrastructural problems. 
 
6-6 
 
2. 
Each Party recognises the importance of accepting the results of 
conformity assessment procedures conducted in another Party 
with a view to increasing efficiency, avoiding duplication, and 
ensuring cost effectiveness of conformity assessments. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall ensure, whenever possible, that results of 
conformity assessment procedures in another Party are 
accepted, even when those procedures differ from its own, unless 
those procedures do not offer an assurance of conformity with 
applicable technical regulations or standards equivalent to its own 
procedures. 
 
4. 
A Party shall, on request of another Party, explain its reasons for 
not accepting the results of a conformity assessment procedure 
conducted in the other Party. 
 
5. 
Each Party recognises that, depending on the situation of the 
Party and the specific sectors involved, a broad range of 
mechanisms exists to facilitate the acceptance of the results of 
conformity assessment procedures conducted in another Party.  
Such mechanisms may include: 
 
(a) 
mutual recognition agreements for the results of conformity 
assessment procedures conducted by bodies in the 
Parties concerned; 
 
(b) 
cooperative 
(voluntary) 
arrangements 
between 
accreditation bodies or those between conformity 
assessment bodies in the Parties concerned; 
 
(c) 
the use of accreditation to qualify conformity assessment 
bodies, including through relevant multilateral agreements 
or arrangements, to recognise the accreditation granted by 
other Parties; 
 
(d) 
the designation of conformity assessment bodies in 
another Party; 
 
(e) 
unilateral recognition by a Party of results of conformity 
assessment procedures conducted in another Party; and 
 
(f) 
manufacturer's or supplier's declaration of conformity. 
 
6. 
Upon reasonable request, the Parties concerned shall exchange 
information or share experiences on the mechanisms referred to 
 
6-7 
in paragraph 5, including their development and application, with 
a view to facilitating the acceptance of the results of conformity 
assessment procedures. 
 
7. 
The Parties recognise the important role that relevant 
international, including regional, organisations can play in 
cooperation in the area of conformity assessment.  In this regard, 
each Party shall take into consideration the participation status or 
membership in such organisations of relevant bodies in the 
Parties in facilitating this cooperation. 
 
8. 
The Parties agree to encourage cooperation between their 
relevant conformity assessment bodies in working closer with a 
view to facilitating the acceptance of conformity assessment 
results between Parties. 
 
9. 
Each Party shall, whenever possible, permit the participation of 
conformity assessment bodies in another Party in its conformity 
assessment procedures under conditions no less favourable than 
those accorded to conformity assessment bodies in the Party. 
 
10. 
Where a Party permits participation of its conformity assessment 
bodies and does not permit participation of conformity 
assessment bodies in another Party in its conformity assessment 
procedures, it shall, on request of that other Party, explain the 
reason for its refusal decision. 
 
 
Article 6.9: Cooperation 
 
1. 
The Parties shall strengthen their cooperation in the field of 
standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment 
procedures, consistent with the objectives of this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall, on request of another Party, give positive 
consideration to proposals for cooperation on matters of mutual 
interest on standards, technical regulations, and conformity 
assessment procedures. 
 
3. 
Such cooperation, which shall be on mutually determined terms 
and conditions, may include: 
 
(a) 
advice, technical assistance or capacity building relating to 
the development and application of standards, technical 
regulations, and conformity assessment procedures; 
 
 
6-8 
(b) 
cooperation between conformity assessment bodies, both 
governmental and non-governmental, in the Parties, on 
matters of mutual interest; 
 
(c) 
cooperation in areas of mutual interest in the work of 
relevant regional and international bodies relating to the 
development and application of standards and conformity 
assessment procedures, such as enhancing participation 
in the frameworks for mutual recognition developed by 
relevant regional and international bodies; 
 
(d) 
enhancing 
cooperation 
in 
the 
development 
and 
improvement of standards, technical regulations, and 
conformity assessment procedures; and 
 
(e) 
strengthening communication and coordination in the 
WTO TBT Committee and other relevant international or 
regional fora. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall, on request of another Party, give consideration 
to sector specific proposals for mutual benefit for cooperation 
under this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 6.10: Technical Discussions 
 
1.  
When a Party considers the need to resolve an issue related to 
trade and provisions under this Chapter, it may make a written 
request for technical discussions.  The requested Party shall 
respond as early as possible to such a request. 
 
2. 
The requested Party shall enter into technical discussions with the 
requesting Party within 60 days, unless otherwise mutually 
determined by the Parties concerned, with a view to reaching a 
mutually satisfactory solution.  Technical discussions may be 
conducted via any means agreed by the Parties concerned. 
 
 
Article 6.11: Transparency 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of the provisions relating to 
transparency in the TBT Agreement.  In this respect, the Parties 
shall take into account relevant decisions and recommendations 
in the Decisions and Recommendations adopted by the WTO 
Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade since 1 January 1995 
 
6-9 
(G/TBT/1/Rev.13), as may be revised, issued by the WTO TBT 
Committee. 
 
2. 
Upon written request, a Party shall provide to the requesting 
Party, if already available, the full text or summary of its notified 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures in 
the English language.  If unavailable, the Party shall provide to 
the requesting Party a summary stating the requirements of the 
notified technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures in the English language, within a reasonable period of 
time agreed by the Parties concerned and, if possible, within 30 
days after receiving the written request.  In implementing the 
preceding sentence, the contents of the summary shall be 
determined by the requested Party. 
 
3. 
Each Party shall, on request of another Party, provide information 
regarding the objectives of, and rationale for, a technical 
regulation or conformity assessment procedure that the 
requested Party has adopted or is proposing to adopt. 
 
4. 
Each Party shall normally allow 60 days from the date of 
notification to the WTO in accordance with paragraph 9 of Article 
2 and paragraph 6 of Article 5 of the TBT Agreement for the other 
Parties to provide comments in writing, except where urgent 
problems of safety, health, environmental protection, or national 
security arise or threaten to arise.  Each Party shall take the 
comments of another Party into account and shall endeavour to 
provide responses to those comments upon request. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall allow persons of another Party to participate in 
consultation procedures that are available to the general public 
for the development of technical regulations, national standards 
and conformity assessment procedures by the Party, subject to 
its laws and regulations, on terms no less favourable than those 
accorded to its own persons. 
 
6. 
When a Party detains an imported consignment, at the point of 
entry due to non-compliance with a technical regulation or a 
conformity assessment procedure, it shall notify the importer or its 
representative, as soon as possible, the reasons for the detention. 
 
7. 
Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, any information or 
explanation requested by a Party pursuant to this Chapter shall 
be provided by the requested Party, in print or electronically, 
within a reasonable period of time agreed by the Parties 
concerned and, if possible, within 60 days.  Upon request, the 
 
6-10 
requested Party shall provide such information or explanation in 
the language or languages agreed by the Parties concerned or, 
whenever possible, in the English language. 
 
 
Article 6.12: Contact Points 
 
1. 
Each Party shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement for that Party, designate one or more contact 
points responsible for coordinating the implementation of this 
Chapter, and notify the other Parties of the contact details of the 
relevant official or officials in that contact point, including the 
telephone number, facsimile number, email address, and any 
other relevant details.  Each Party shall promptly notify the other 
Parties of any change to those contact details. 
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that its contact point or contact points 
facilitate the exchange of information between the Parties on 
standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment 
procedures, in response to all reasonable requests for such 
information from another Party. 
 
 
Article 6.13: Implementing Arrangements 
 
The Parties may develop bilateral or plurilateral arrangements to set out 
areas of cooperation of mutual interest for applying this Chapter.  The 
Parties that have adopted such arrangements under this Chapter are 
encouraged, where mutually agreed, to report such arrangements to the 
Committee on Goods. 
 
 
Article 6.14: Dispute Settlement 
 
Chapter 19 (Dispute Settlement) shall not apply to any matter arising 
under this Chapter at the entry into force of this Agreement, and this non-
application shall be subject to a review by the Parties two years after the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement.  In the course of the review, 
Parties shall give positive consideration to the application of Chapter 19 
(Dispute Settlement) to either the whole or parts of this Chapter.  Such 
review shall be completed within three years from the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
