 
CHAPTER 7 
 
TRADE REMEDIES 
 
 
SECTION A 
RCEP SAFEGUARD MEASURES 
 
 
Article 7.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  confidential information includes information which is 
provided on a confidential basis and which is by its nature 
confidential (for example, because its disclosure would be 
of significant competitive advantage to a competitor or 
because its disclosure would have a significantly adverse 
effect upon a person supplying the information or upon a 
person from whom that person acquired the information); 
 
(b)  customs  duty  means  customs  duties  as  defined  in 
subparagraph (b) of Article 2.1 (Definitions); 
 
(c)  domestic industry means, with respect to an imported 
good,  the  producers  as  a  whole  of  the  like  or  directly 
competitive goods operating within the territory of a Party, 
or those producers whose collective output of the like or 
directly competitive goods constitutes a major proportion of 
the total domestic production of that good; 
 
(d)  originating good means an originating good as defined in 
subparagraph (l) of Article 3.1 (Definitions); 
 
(e)  provisional  RCEP  safeguard  measure  means  a 
safeguard measure described in paragraph 1 of Article 7.8 
(Provisional RCEP Safeguard Measures); 
 
(f)  serious injury means a significant overall impairment in 
the position of a domestic industry; 
 
(g)  threat of serious injury means serious injury that, on the 
basis of facts and not merely on allegation, conjecture, or 
remote possibility, is clearly imminent; 
 
7-1  
(h)  transitional  RCEP  safeguard  measure  means  a 
safeguard measure described in Article 7.2 (Application of 
Transitional RCEP Safeguard Measures); and 
 
(i)  transitional  safeguard  period  means,  in  relation  to  a 
particular good, the period from the date of entry into force 
of this Agreement until eight years after the date on which 
the elimination or reduction of the customs duty on that 
good is completed, in accordance with a Party’s Schedule 
of  tariff  commitments  in  Annex  I  (Schedules  of  Tariff 
Commitments). 
 
 
Article 7.2: Application of Transitional RCEP Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  If, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty 
under this Agreement, an originating good of another Party or 
Parties collectively is being imported into the territory of a Party in 
such  increased  quantities,  in  absolute  terms  or  relative  to 
domestic production, and under such conditions as to cause or 
threaten to cause serious injury to its domestic industry producing 
a like or directly competitive good, the importing Party may, to the 
extent necessary to prevent or remedy the serious injury to its 
domestic  industry  and  to  facilitate  its  domestic  industry’s 
adjustment: 
 
(a)  suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty 
provided for in this Agreement on the originating good; or 
 
(b)  increase the rate of customs duty on the originating good 
to a level not to exceed the lesser of: 
 
(i)  the most-favoured-nation applied rate of customs 
duty in effect on the day when the transitional RCEP 
safeguard measure is applied; or 
 
(ii)  the most-favoured-nation applied rate of customs 
duty in effect on the day immediately preceding the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement for that 
Party. 
 
2.  The  Parties  understand  that  neither  tariff  rate  quotas  nor 
quantitative  restrictions  are  permissible  forms  of  transitional 
RCEP safeguard measures. 
 
7-2  
3.  On request of any Party, the Committee on Goods may, no later 
than three years before the end of the transitional safeguard 
period, discuss and review the implementation and operation, 
including  the  duration,  of  the  transitional  RCEP  safeguard 
measures. 
 
 
Article 7.3: Notification and Consultation 
 
1.  A Party shall immediately deliver a written notice to the other 
Parties upon: 
 
(a)  initiating  an  investigation  referred  to  in  Article  7.4 
(Investigation  Procedures)  relating  to  serious  injury  or 
threat of serious injury and the reasons for it; 
 
(b)  making a finding of serious injury or threat of serious injury 
caused by increased imports; 
 
(c)  applying or extending the imposition of a transitional RCEP 
safeguard measure; and 
 
(d)  taking  a  decision  to  modify,  including  to  progressively 
liberalise, a transitional RCEP safeguard measure. 
 
2.  A written notice referred to in subparagraph 1(a) shall include: 
 
(a)  a precise description of the originating good subject to the 
investigation including its heading and subheading under 
the Harmonized System and the national nomenclature of 
the Party; 
 
(b)  a  summary  of  the  reason  for  the  initiation  of  the 
investigation; and 
 
(c)  the date of the initiation of the investigation and the period 
of investigation. 
 
3.  A Party shall provide to the other Parties a copy or the Uniform 
Resource  Locator  of  the  public  version  of  the  report  by  its 
competent authorities that is required under paragraph 1 of Article 
7.4 (Investigation Procedures).  The provided report may be in the 
language originally used in the report by its competent authorities. 
 
4.  A written notice referred to in subparagraphs 1(b) through (d) shall 
include: 
7-3  
 
(a)  a precise description of the originating good subject to the 
transitional  RCEP  safeguard  measure  including  its 
heading and subheading under the Harmonized System 
and the national nomenclature of the Party; 
 
(b)  evidence of the serious injury or threat of serious injury 
caused by increased imports of the originating good of 
another Party or Parties as a result of the reduction or 
elimination of a customs duty pursuant to this Agreement; 
 
(c)  a precise description of the proposed transitional RCEP 
safeguard measure; 
 
(d)  the proposed date of the introduction of the transitional 
RCEP safeguard measure, its expected duration, and, if 
applicable, a timetable for the progressive liberalisation of 
the transitional RCEP safeguard measure referred to in 
paragraph  3  of  Article  7.5  (Scope  and  Duration  of 
Transitional RCEP Safeguard Measures); and 
 
(e)  in  the  case  of  an  extension  of  the  transitional  RCEP 
safeguard measure, evidence that the domestic industry 
concerned is adjusting. 
 
5.  A  Party  proposing  to  apply  or  extend  a  transitional  RCEP 
safeguard measure shall provide adequate opportunity for prior 
consultations with the Parties that have a substantial interest as 
exporters  of  the  good  concerned,  with  a  view  to,  inter  alia, 
reviewing the information provided under paragraphs 2 and 4 that 
has  arisen  from  the  investigation  referred  to  in  Article  7.4 
(Investigation Procedures), exchanging views on the transitional 
RCEP safeguard measure, and reaching an understanding on 
ways  to  achieve  the  objective  set  out  in  Article  7.7 
(Compensation). 
 
 
Article 7.4: Investigation Procedures 
 
1.  A  Party  shall  apply  a transitional  RCEP  safeguard  measure 
only  following an investigation  by its competent authorities in 
accordance with the same procedures as those provided for in 
Article  3  and  paragraph  2  of  Article  4  of  the  Safeguards 
Agreement.  To this end, Article 3 and paragraph 2 of Article 4 of 
the Safeguards Agreement are incorporated into and made part 
of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
7-4  
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that its competent authorities complete 
the  investigation  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  within  one  year 
following its date of initiation. 
 
 
Article 7.5: Scope and Duration of Transitional RCEP Safeguard 
Measures 
 
1.  No Party shall apply a transitional RCEP safeguard measure: 
 
(a)  except  to  the  extent,  and  for  such  time,  as  may  be 
necessary  to  prevent  or  remedy  serious  injury  and  to 
facilitate adjustment; 
 
(b)  for  a  period  exceeding  three  years,  except  that  in 
exceptional circumstances, the period may be extended by 
up to one year if the competent authorities of the Party that 
applies  the  transitional  RCEP  safeguard  measure 
determines, in conformity with the procedures specified in 
this Article, that the transitional RCEP safeguard measure 
continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy serious 
injury and to facilitate adjustment and that there is evidence 
that the domestic industry concerned is adjusting, provided 
that the total period of application of a provisional and 
transitional RCEP safeguard measure, including the period 
of initial application and any extension thereof, shall not 
exceed four years.  Notwithstanding this provision, a Least 
Developed Country Party may extend its transitional RCEP 
safeguard measure for an additional period of one year; or 
 
(c)  beyond the expiration of the transitional safeguard period. 
 
2.   No transitional RCEP safeguard measure shall be applied to the 
import of an originating good for a period of one year from the 
date on which the first tariff reduction or tariff elimination takes 
effect  for  that  originating  good  as  committed  under  this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  In order to facilitate adjustment in a situation where the expected 
duration of a transitional RCEP safeguard measure exceeds one 
year,  the  Party  applying  the  transitional  RCEP  safeguard 
measure  shall  progressively  liberalise  the  transitional  RCEP 
safeguard  measure  at  regular  intervals  during  its  period  of 
application. 
 
7-5  
4.  When a Party terminates a transitional RCEP safeguard measure, 
the rate of customs duty for the originating good subject to that 
transitional  RCEP  safeguard  measure  shall  be  the  rate  that, 
according to that Party’s Schedule in Annex I (Schedules of Tariff 
Commitments), would have been in effect but for that transitional 
RCEP safeguard measure. 
 
5.  No transitional RCEP safeguard measure shall be applied again 
to the import of a particular originating good that has been subject 
to a transitional RCEP safeguard measure, for a period of time 
equal to the duration of the previous transitional RCEP safeguard 
measure or one year since the expiry of such measure, whichever 
is longer. 
 
 
Article 7.6: De Minimis Imports and Special Treatment 
 
1.  A provisional or transitional RCEP safeguard measure shall not 
be applied to an originating good of a Party,  as  long  as  that 
Party’s share of imports of the good concerned in the importing 
Party does not exceed three per cent of the total imports of that 
good from all the Parties, provided that those Parties with less 
than three per cent import share collectively account for not more 
than nine per cent. 
 
2.  A provisional or transitional RCEP safeguard measure shall not 
be applied to an originating good of any Least Developed Country 
Party. 
 
 
Article 7.7: Compensation 
 
1.  A  Party  proposing  to  apply  or  extend  a  transitional  RCEP 
safeguard  measure  shall,  in  consultation  with  the  exporting 
Parties that would be affected by such a measure, provide  to 
those  exporting  Parties  mutually  agreed,  adequate  means  of 
trade  compensation  in  the  form  of  concessions  having 
substantially equivalent trade effects or equivalent to the value of 
the  additional  customs  duties  expected  to  result  from  the 
measure.  The Party applying a transitional RCEP safeguard 
measure  shall  provide  those  exporting  Parties  that  would  be 
affected by such a measure with the opportunity to consult within 
30 days of the date on which the transitional RCEP safeguard 
measure was applied. 
 
7-6  
2.  If the consultations referred to in paragraph 1 do not result in an 
agreement  on  trade  compensation  within  30  days  of  the 
commencement of such consultations, any Party against whose 
good the transitional RCEP safeguard measure is applied may 
suspend the application of substantially equivalent concessions 
to the trade in goods of the Party applying the transitional RCEP 
safeguard measure. 
 
3.  A  Party  against  whose  good  a  transitional  RCEP  safeguard 
measure is applied shall deliver a written notice to the Party 
applying the transitional RCEP safeguard measure at least 30 
days  before  it  suspends  the  application  of  concessions  in 
accordance with paragraph 2. 
 
4.  The obligation to provide compensation under paragraph 1 and 
the right to suspend the application of concessions in accordance 
with paragraph 2 shall cease on the termination of the transitional 
RCEP safeguard measure. 
 
5.  The right to suspend the application of concessions in accordance 
with paragraph 2 shall not be exercised for the first three years 
during  which  the  transitional  RCEP  safeguard  measure  is  in 
effect, provided that the transitional RCEP safeguard measure 
has been applied as a result of an absolute increase in imports 
and that it conforms to this Agreement. 
 
6.  A  Least  Developed  Country  Party  that  applies  or  extends  a 
transitional RCEP safeguard measure shall not be requested for 
any compensation by the affected Parties. 
 
 
Article 7.8: Provisional RCEP Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  In critical circumstances where delay would cause damage that 
would  be  difficult  to  repair,  an  importing  Party  may  apply  a 
provisional RCEP safeguard measure, which shall take the form 
of the measures set out in subparagraph 1(a) or (b) of Article 7.2 
(Application  of  Transitional  RCEP  Safeguard  Measures), 
pursuant  to  a  preliminary  determination  by  its  competent 
authorities  that  there  is  clear  evidence  that  imports  of  an 
originating good from another Party or Parties have increased as 
the result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty under 
this Agreement, and such increased imports have caused or are 
threatening to cause serious injury to a domestic industry of the 
importing Party. 
 
7-7  
2.  A Party shall deliver a written notice to the other Parties prior to 
applying a provisional RCEP safeguard measure.  Consultations 
with the Parties that have a substantial interest as exporters of the 
good  concerned  on  the  application  of  the  provisional  RCEP 
safeguard  measure  shall  be  initiated  immediately  after  the 
provisional RCEP safeguard measure is applied. 
 
3.  The duration of any provisional RCEP safeguard measure shall 
not exceed 200 days, during which period the Party applying that 
provisional  RCEP  safeguard  measure  shall  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  paragraph  1  of  Article  7.4  (Investigation 
Procedures).  If the investigation referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Article 7.4 (Investigation Procedures) does not result in a finding 
that the requirements of Article 7.2 (Application of Transitional 
RCEP  Safeguard  Measures)  are  met,  the  Party  applying  the 
provisional RCEP safeguard measure shall promptly refund any 
additional customs duties collected as a result of the provisional 
RCEP safeguard measure.  For greater certainty, the duration of 
any provisional RCEP safeguard measure shall be counted as 
part of the total period prescribed by subparagraph 1(b) of Article 
7.5  (Scope  and  Duration  of  Transitional  RCEP  Safeguard 
Measures). 
 
4.  Paragraph  2  of  Article  7.2  (Application  of  Transitional  RCEP 
Safeguard Measures), paragraph 4 of Article 7.5 (Scope and 
Duration  of  Transitional  RCEP  Safeguard  Measures),  and 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 7.10 (Other Provisions) shall apply, 
mutatis mutandis, to a provisional RCEP safeguard measure. 
 
 
Article 7.9: Global Safeguard Measures 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations 
of the Parties under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Safeguards 
Agreement.1 
 
2.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  3,  nothing  in  this 
Agreement shall confer any rights or impose any obligations on 
the Parties with regard to actions taken pursuant to Article XIX of 
GATT 1994 and the Safeguards Agreement.2 
 
1 For greater certainty, each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article 5 of 
the Agreement on Agriculture in view of Article 20.2 (Relation to Other Agreements).  
 
2 For greater certainty, each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article 5 of 
the Agreement on Agriculture in view of Article 20.2 (Relation to Other Agreements). 
7-8  
 
3.  On request of another Party, a Party intending to take safeguard 
measures  pursuant  to  Article  XIX  of  GATT  1994  and  the 
Safeguards Agreement shall immediately provide written notice 
or Uniform Resource Locator of all pertinent information required 
under paragraphs 1, 2, and 4 of Article 12 of the Safeguards 
Agreement  on  the  initiation  of  a  safeguard  investigation,  the 
preliminary  determination,  and  the  final  finding  of  the 
investigation.  A Party shall be deemed to be in compliance with 
this  paragraph  if  it  has  notified  the  measure  to  the  WTO 
Committee on Safeguards in accordance with Article 12 of the 
Safeguards Agreement. 
 
4.  No Party shall apply, with respect to the same good, at the same 
time: 
 
(a)  a provisional or transitional RCEP safeguard measure; and 
 
(b)  a  measure  under  Article  XIX  of  GATT  1994  and  the 
Safeguards Agreement. 
 
 
Article 7.10: Other Provisions 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure the consistent, impartial, and reasonable 
administration of its laws and regulations relating to transitional 
RCEP safeguard measures. 
 
2.  Each Party shall adopt or maintain equitable, timely, transparent, 
and effective procedures relating to transitional RCEP safeguard 
measures. 
 
3.  A  written  notice  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  of  Article  7.3 
(Notification  and  Consultation),  paragraph  3  of  Article  7.7 
(Compensation),  and  paragraph  2  of  Article  7.8  (Provisional 
RCEP Safeguard Measures) shall be in the English language. 
 
 
   
7-9  
SECTION B 
ANTI-DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES 
 
 
Article 7.11: General Provisions 
 
1.  The Parties retain their rights and obligations under Article VI of 
GATT 1994, the AD Agreement, and the SCM Agreement.  This 
Section affirms and builds on those rights and obligations. 
 
2.  In any proceeding in which the investigating authorities of a Party 
determine  to  conduct  an  on-the-spot  investigation  to  verify 
information  provided  by  a  respondent3  and  pertinent  to  the 
calculation  of  anti-dumping  duty  margins  or  the  level  of  a 
countervailable  subsidy,  the  investigating  authorities  shall 
promptly notify that respondent of their intent, and: 
 
(a)  shall endeavour to provide to the respondent at least seven 
days advance notice of the date on which investigating 
authorities  intend  to  conduct  any  such  on-the-spot 
investigation to verify the information; and 
 
(b)  shall endeavour to, at least seven days prior to any such 
on-the-spot investigation to verify the information, provide 
to the respondent a document that sets forth the topics the 
respondent  should  be  prepared  to  address  during  the 
verification  and  that  describes  the  types  of  supporting 
documentation the respondent is to make available for 
review, 
 
provided that the implementation of subparagraphs (a) and (b) 
does not unnecessarily delay the conduct of the investigation. 
 
3.  A  Party’s  investigating  authorities  shall  maintain  a  non-
confidential file for each investigation and review containing: 
 
(a)  all non-confidential documents which are part of the record 
of the investigation or review; and 
 
 
3 For the purposes of this paragraph, “respondent” means a producer, manufacturer, 
exporter, importer, and, where appropriate, a government or government entity, that is 
required by a Party’s investigating authorities to respond to an anti-dumping or 
countervailing duty questionnaire. 
 
7-10  
(b)  to  the  extent  feasible  without  revealing  confidential 
information,  non-confidential  summaries  of  confidential 
information contained in the record of each investigation or 
review. 
 
4.  During  an  investigation  or  review,  a  Party’s  investigating 
authorities shall make the non-confidential file of the investigation 
or review available to interested parties either: 
 
(a)   physically  for  inspection  and  copying  during  the 
investigation authorities’ normal business hours; or 
 
(b)   electronically. 
 
 
Article 7.12: Notification and Consultations 
 
1.  On  receipt  by  a  Party’s  competent  authorities  of  a  properly 
documented  anti-dumping  application  with  respect  to  imports 
from another Party, the Party shall endeavour to provide written 
notice to the other Party of its receipt of the application at least 
seven days before initiating such an anti-dumping investigation. 
 
2.  On  receipt  by  a  Party’s  competent  authorities  of  a  properly 
documented  countervailing  duty  application  with  respect  to 
imports from another Party, and before initiating an investigation, 
the Party shall endeavour to provide written notice to the other 
Party of its receipt of the application at least 20 days in advance 
of the date of initiation of a countervailing investigation and invite 
the other Party for consultations on the application.  The Parties 
concerned will endeavour to hold consultations within that period. 
 
3.  In view of the consultations referred to in paragraph 2, the Party 
intending to initiate the investigation referred to in paragraph 2 
shall, before the initiation of the investigation, on request of the 
other Party, provide the non-confidential version of the complaint 
to the other Party.  The Party intending to initiate the investigation 
shall endeavour to provide adequate opportunity to the other 
Party  to  comment  and  submit  additional  information  or 
documents, as appropriate and in conformity with the procedural 
rules provided for in the laws and regulations of the former Party. 
 
 
   
7-11  
Article 7.13: Prohibition of Zeroing 
 
When margins of dumping are established, assessed, or reviewed under 
Article 2, paragraphs 3 and 5 of Article 9, and Article 11 of the AD 
Agreement, all individual margins, whether positive or negative, shall be 
counted for weighted average-to-weighted average and transaction-to-
transaction comparison.  Nothing in this Article shall prejudice or affect 
a  Party’s  rights  and  obligations  under  the  second  sentence  of 
subparagraph  4.2  of  Article  2  of  the  AD  Agreement  in  relation  to 
weighted average-to-transaction comparison. 
 
 
Article 7.14: Disclosure of the Essential Facts 
 
Each Party shall ensure, to the extent possible at least 10 days before 
the final determination, full and meaningful disclosure of all essential 
facts under consideration which form the basis for the decision to apply 
measures,  without  prejudice  to  paragraph  5  of  Article  6  of  the  AD 
Agreement  and  paragraph  4  of  Article  12  of  the  SCM  Agreement.  
Disclosures  shall  be  made  in  writing,  and  allow  interested  parties 
sufficient time to provide their comments.  The investigating authorities 
of a Party should, in their final determination, take into account such 
comments, if the comments have been received in the time frames 
established by that Party’s laws and regulations or by its investigating 
authorities. 
 
 
Article 7.15: Treatment of Confidential Information 
 
The investigating authorities of a Party shall require interested parties 
providing confidential information to furnish non-confidential summaries 
of such information, as referred to in subparagraph 5.1 of Article 6 of the 
AD  Agreement.    The  non-confidential  summaries  referred  to  in 
subparagraph 5.1 of Article 6 of the AD Agreement shall be in sufficient 
detail to permit a reasonable understanding of the substance of the 
information submitted in confidence in order to allow other interested 
parties in the investigation an opportunity to respond and defend their 
interests, consistent with paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the AD Agreement. 
 
 
Article 7.16: Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
No Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 19 
(Dispute Settlement) for any matter arising under this Section or Annex 
7A  (Practices  Relating  to  Anti-Dumping  and  Countervailing  Duty 
7-12  
Proceedings).  The applicability of dispute settlement to this Section will 
be subject to review in accordance with Article 20.8 (General Review). 
 
 
7-13 