ANNEX IV 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON  
TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
INDONESIA 
 
 
1.  Indonesia’s commitments on categories of natural persons and its respective conditions and 
limitations for the temporary entry and temporary stay, including length of stay, are made in 
accordance with Article 9.5 (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of 
Natural Persons). 
 
2.  The Horizontal Schedule below shall be interpreted in the light of Chapter 9 (Temporary 
Movement of Natural Persons). Natural persons of another Party that fall under the categories 
specified in the Horizontal Schedule are permitted to enter and stay in Indonesia subject to its 
applicable conditions and limitations. 
 
3.  Where natural persons of another Party in categories permitted to enter and stay with respect to 
sectors listed in Appendix IVA (Sector-Specific Commitments), all conditions and limitations 
specified in each category of the Horizontal Schedule shall also apply, unless otherwise specified. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, Indonesia reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measures with respect 
to categories of natural persons other than those categories listed in this Horizontal Schedule. 
 
 
HORIZONTAL SCHEDULE 
 
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 1  
   
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 2 APPENDIX IVA 
SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
 
1.  The following sets out Indonesia’s sectoral commitments in relation to the temporary entry and 
temporary stay of Parties’ Intra-Corporate Transferees in the territory of Indonesia. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Appendix, “None” means: 
 
-  no additional conditions and limitations other than those listed in the Horizontal Schedule; 
and  
 
-  in the case of 5. Education Services and 7. Financial Services, no additional conditions 
and limitations other than those listed in the Horizontal Schedule and their respective 
General Conditions below. 
 
3.  For the purposes of this Appendix, “Unbound” means no commitment. 
 
4.  References to “CPC” in this Appendix refers to the provisional CPC codes as used in the 
Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical Papers Series M No.77, Department of 
International Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 
1991). The appearance of ** against individual CPC listings indicates that the service specified 
constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
 
5.  References  to  “W  120”  in  this  Appendix  refers  to  Services  Sectoral  Classification  List 
(MTN.GNS/W/120 of 10 July 1991). 
 
6.  References to “KBLI” in this Appendix refers to the Indonesia Standard Industrial Classification 
(Klasifikasi Baku Lapangan Usaha Indonesia) 2015.  
 
 
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 3   ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 4   ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 5   ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 6   ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 7                                                       
1 Water management includes series of supplying services activities related to surface water purification from the water source, 
water distribution directly from the water terminal, water tank transportation, with the purpose of selling those to consumers.   
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 8                                                       
2 Portfolio management is, as stipulated in the prevailing laws and regulations on capital market, all forms of collective investment 
management. 
 
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 9                                                       
3 Starred Hotel is a service business which provides accommodation; food and beverages facilities; and other services, except 
casino and other activities prohibited by law; for reasons of public moral, religion, security and public order.  
 
4 Tourist Resort is an area built to accommodate the facilities needed for the tourist such as hotels, marinas, golf course, cultural 
open stage and other facilities, except casino and other activities prohibited by law; for reasons of public moral, religion, security 
and public order.   
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 10   ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 11  
  ANNEX IV – INDONESIA – 12 