  
 
ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF RESERVATIONS AND NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR SERVICES AND 
INVESTMENT 
 
 
JAPAN 
 LIST A 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List A sets out, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming 
Measures) and paragraph 1 of Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the 
entries made by Japan with respect to existing measures that do not conform with obligations 
imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 8.4 (National Treatment) or Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 8.5 (Market Access);  
 
(c)  Article  8.6  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  or  Article  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment);  
 
(d)  Article 8.11 (Local Presence); 
 
(e)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or 
 
(f)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors). 1, 2 
 
2.  Each entry sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)  Sector refers to the general sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Subsector refers to the specific sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers, where applicable, and only for transparency purposes, to 
the  activity  covered  by  the  entry  according  to  domestic  or  international  industry 
classification codes; 
 
(d)  Level of Government indicates the level of government maintaining the measure for which 
the entry is made;  
 
(e)  Type of Obligation specifies the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 for which the entry 
is made;   
 
(f)  Description sets out, with respect to the obligations referred to in paragraph 1, the non-
conforming aspects of the existing measures for which the entry is made; and 
 
(g)  Measures identifies the existing laws, regulations, or other measures for which the entry is 
made.  A measure cited in the Measures element: 
 
(i)  means the measure as amended, continued, or renewed as of the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii)  includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the authority of and 
consistent with the measure. 
 
3.  In the interpretation of an entry, all elements of the entry shall be considered.  An entry shall be 
interpreted in the light of the relevant provisions of the Chapters against which the entry is made.  
The Measures element shall prevail over all the other elements. 
                                                   
1 For the purposes of this List A, “Senior Management and Board of Directors” (Article 10.7) specified in the “Type of Obligation” 
includes the obligation in relation to any measure affecting the supply of a service, which is imposed in accordance with paragraph 
3 of Article 10.2 (Scope). 
 
2 For transparency purposes, entries in this List A may include measures taken by Japan in accordance with Article 10.15 
(Security Exceptions), Article 17.12 (General Exceptions), or Article 17.13 (Security Exceptions). 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 2  
4.  With respect to financial services: 
 
(a)  for prudential reasons within the context of Article 4 (Prudential Measures) of Annex 8A 
(Financial Services), Japan shall not be prevented from taking measures such as non-
discriminatory limitations on juridical forms of a commercial presence.  For the same 
reasons,  Japan  shall  not  be  prevented  from  applying  non-discriminatory  limitations 
concerning admission to the market of new financial services which shall be consistent with 
a regulatory framework aimed at achieving such prudential objectives.  In this context, 
securities firms are allowed to deal in securities defined in the relevant laws and regulations 
of  Japan,  and  banks  are  not  allowed  to  deal in  those  securities  unless  allowed  in 
accordance with those laws and regulations; and 
 
(b)  services supplied in the territory of another Party to the service consumer in Japan without 
any active marketing from the service supplier are considered as services supplied under 
subparagraph (r)(ii) of Article 8.1 (Definitions). 
 
5.  With respect to air transport services, measures affecting traffic rights or measures affecting 
services directly related to the exercise of traffic rights are not listed in this List A, as these are 
excluded from the scope of Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) pursuant to Article 8.2 (Scope). 
 
6.  Laws and regulations of Japan with regard to spectrum availability affecting obligations under 
Article 8.5 (Market Access) are not included in this List A, taking into account the Attachment 6 
of Guidelines for the Scheduling of Specific Commitments (WTO Document S/L/92, dated 28 
March 2001). 
 
7.  For the purposes of Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), Japan reserves the right to adopt or maintain 
any measure with respect to permanent residents of another Party except those of a Party that 
has submitted a notification under subparagraph (k)(ii) 2 of Article XXVIII of GATS. 
 
8.  For the purposes of this List A, “JSIC” means Japan Standard Industrial Classification set out by 
the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, and revised on 30 October 2013. 
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 3  
   
                                                   
3 For greater certainty, absence of reference in this description to “national security”, which is referred to in entries No. 10, 12, 
13, 15, 37, 46, 47, 55 and 57 of this List A, does not mean that Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 17.13 (Security 
Exceptions) does not apply to the screening or that Japan waives its right to invoke Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions) to justify the screening. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 4  
 
 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 5  
 
 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 6  
 
 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 7    
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 8  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 9  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 10  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 11  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 12  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 13  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 14  
   
                                                   
4 An asterisk (*) on the JSIC numbers indicates that the activities covered by this entry under such numbers are limited to the 
activities which are subject to the registration obligation under Article 9 of the Telecommunications Business Law (Law No. 86 of 
1984). 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 15    
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 16  
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 17                                                    
5 An asterisk (*) on the JSIC numbers indicates that the activities covered by this entry under such numbers are limited to the 
activities related to manufacturing industry of agents against pathogenic organisms and parasites, their pharmaceutical 
intermediates and specially-controlled medical devices. 
 
6 For the purposes of this entry: 
 
(a)  “biological preparations manufacturing industry” deals with economic activities in an establishment which produces 
vaccine, serum, toxoid, antitoxin, and some preparations similar to the aforementioned products, or blood products; 
 
(b)  “agents against pathogenic organisms and parasites” means the pharmaceutical products which are categorised as 
agents against pathogenic organisms and parasites, and which have received marketing approval, under the laws and 
regulations of Japan; and 
 
(c)  “specially-controlled medical devices” means medical devices which have received marketing approval or certification 
as specially-controlled medical devices under the laws and regulations of Japan. 
 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 18  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 19                                                    
7 An asterisk (*1) on the JSIC numbers indicates that the activities covered by this entry under such numbers are limited to the 
activities related to leather and leather products manufacturing.  An asterisk (*2) on the JSIC number indicates that the activities 
covered by this entry under such number are limited to the activities related to animal glue (nikawa) and gelatine manufacturing. 
 
8 For greater certainty, absence of reference in this description to “national security”, which is referred to in entries No. 10, 12, 
13, 15, 37, 46, 47, 55 and 57 of this List A, does not mean that Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 17.13 (Security 
Exceptions) does not apply to the screening or that Japan waives its right to invoke Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions) to justify the screening. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 20  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 21  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 22                                                    
9 For the purposes of this entry: 
 
(a)   “measuring instruments” means appliances, machines, or equipment used for measurement; 
 
(b)  “specified measuring instruments” means measuring instruments used in transactions or certifications, or measuring 
instruments principally for use in the life of general consumers, and those specified by a Cabinet Order as necessary 
to establish standards relating to their structure and instrumental error in order to ensure proper execution of 
measurements; 
 
(c)   “measurement certification businesses” under the requirement described in paragraph 3 are listed in the following and 
the registration shall be in accordance with the business classification specified by the Ordinance of the Ministry of 
Economy, Trade and Industry: 
 
(i)   the business of measurement certifications of length, weight, area, volume, or heat concerning goods to be loaded 
or unloaded or entered or dispatched for transportation, deposit, or sale or purchase (excluding the measurement 
certifications of mass or volume of goods to be loaded on or unloaded from ship); and 
 
(ii)  the business of measurement certifications of concentration, sound pressure level or the quantity of other physical 
phenomena specified by a Cabinet Order (excluding what is listed in subparagraph (c)(i)); 
 
however, this requirement shall not apply to the case where a person engaged in the measurement certification 
business is a national government, a local government, or an incorporated administrative agency prescribed by 
paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the Law on General Rules for Incorporated Administrative Agency (Law No. 103 of 1999) 
who is designated by a Cabinet Order as competent to appropriately perform the measurement certification business, 
or where the measurement certification business is performed by a person who has been registered or designated or 
received any other disposition to conduct that business pursuant to the provision of the law specified by that Cabinet 
Order; and 
 
(d)   “specified measurement certification business” means the business specified by a Cabinet Order as these requiring 
high levels of technology to certify measurement of considerably tiny quantities of physical phenomena prescribed in 
subparagraph (c)(ii). 
 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 23  
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 24  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 25  
 
   
                                                   
10 Services requiring mining rights or mining lease rights are required to be supplied by a Japanese national or a legal person 
established under the laws and regulations of Japan, in accordance with the Chapters 2 and 3 of the Mining Law. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 26                                                    
11 An asterisk (*1) on the JSIC numbers indicates that the activities covered by this entry under such numbers are limited to those 
related to the oil industry.  An asterisk (*2) on the JSIC number indicates that the activities covered by this entry under such 
number are limited to those related to the liquefied petroleum gas industry. 
 
12 For greater certainty, absence of reference in this description to “national security”, which is referred to in entries No. 10, 12, 
13, 15, 37, 46, 47, 55 and 57 of this List A, does not mean that Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 17.13 (Security 
Exceptions) does not apply to the screening or that Japan waives its right to invoke Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions) to justify the screening. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 27  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 28  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 29  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 30  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 31  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 32  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 33  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 34  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 35  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 36  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 37  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 38  
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 39  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 40  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 41  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 42  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 43  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 44  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 45  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 46                                                    
13 For greater certainty, absence of reference in this description to “national security”, which is referred to in entries No. 10, 12, 
13, 15, 37, 46, 47, 55 and 57 of this List A, does not mean that Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 17.13 (Security 
Exceptions) does not apply to the screening or that Japan waives its right to invoke Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions) to justify the screening. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 47  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 48                                                    
14 For greater certainty, absence of reference in this description to “national security”, which is referred to in entries No. 10, 12, 
13, 15, 37, 46, 47, 55 and 57 of this List A, does not mean that Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 17.13 (Security 
Exceptions) does not apply to the screening or that Japan waives its right to invoke Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions) to justify the screening. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 49  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 50  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 51  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 52 ANNEX III – JAPAN – 53  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 54 ANNEX III – JAPAN – 55  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 56  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 57 ANNEX III – JAPAN – 58  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 59  
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 60  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 61  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 62  
 
   
                                                   
15 For greater certainty, absence of reference in this description to “national security”, which is referred to in entries No. 10, 12, 
13, 15, 37, 46, 47, 55 and 57 of this List A, does not mean that Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 17.13 (Security 
Exceptions) does not apply to the screening or that Japan waives its right to invoke Article 10.15 (Security Exceptions) and Article 
17.13 (Security Exceptions) to justify the screening. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 63  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 64  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 65  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 66  
 
   
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 67                                                    
16 An asterisk (*) on the JSIC numbers indicates that the activities covered by this entry under such numbers are limited to those 
related to aerospace industry. 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 68  
 
 
ANNEX III – JAPAN – 69 LIST B 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List B sets out, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 8.8 (Schedules of Non-Conforming 
Measures) and paragraph 2 of Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the 
entries made by Japan with respect to specific sectors, subsectors, or activities for which it may 
maintain existing, or adopt new or more restrictive, measures that do not conform with obligations 
imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 8.4 (National Treatment) or Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 8.5 (Market Access);  
 
(c)  Article  8.6  (Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment)  or  Article  10.4  (Most-Favoured-Nation 
Treatment);  
 
(d)  Article 8.11 (Local Presence); 
 
(e)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or 
 
(f)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors).17, 18 
 
2.  Each entry sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)  Sector refers to the general sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Subsector refers to the specific sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers, where applicable, and only for transparency purposes, to 
the  activity  covered  by  the  entry  according  to  domestic  or  international  industry 
classification codes; 
 
(d)  Type of Obligation specifies the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 for which the entry 
is made; 
 
(e)  Description sets out the scope of the sector, subsector, or activities covered by the entry; 
and 
 
(f)  Existing Measures identifies, for transparency purposes, existing measures that apply to 
the sector, subsector, or activities covered by the entry.  
 
3.  In the interpretation of an entry, all elements of the entry shall be considered.  The Description 
element shall prevail over all the other elements. 
 
4.  With respect to financial services: 
 
(a)  for prudential reasons within the context of Article 4 (Prudential Measures) of Annex 8A 
(Financial Services), Japan shall not be prevented from taking measures such as non-
discriminatory limitations on juridical forms of a commercial presence.  For the same 
reasons,  Japan  shall  not  be  prevented  from  applying  non-discriminatory  limitations 
concerning admission to the market of new financial services which shall be consistent with 
a regulatory framework aimed at achieving such prudential objectives.  In this context, 
                                                   
17 For the purposes of this List B, “Senior Management and Board of Directors” (Article 10.7) specified in the “Type of Obligation” 
includes the obligation in relation to any measure affecting the supply of a service, which is imposed in accordance with paragraph 
3 of Article 10.2 (Scope). 
 
18 For transparency purposes, entries in this List B may include measures taken by Japan in accordance with Article 10.15 
(Security Exceptions), Article 17.12 (General Exceptions), or Article 17.13 (Security Exceptions). 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 70   securities firms are allowed to deal in securities defined in the relevant laws and regulations 
of  Japan,  and  banks  are  not  allowed  to  deal in  those  securities  unless  allowed  in 
accordance with those laws and regulations; and 
 
(b)  services supplied in the territory of another Party to the service consumer in Japan without 
any active marketing from the service supplier are considered as services supplied under 
subparagraph (r)(ii) of Article 8.1 (Definitions). 
 
5.  With respect to air transport services, measures affecting traffic rights or measures affecting 
services directly related to the exercise of traffic rights are not listed in this List B, as these are 
excluded from the scope of Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) pursuant to Article 8.2 (Scope). 
 
6.  Laws and regulations of Japan with regard to spectrum availability affecting obligations under 
Article 8.5 (Market Access) are not included in this List B, taking into account the Attachment 6 
of Guidelines for the Scheduling of Specific Commitments (WTO Document S/L/92, dated 28 
March 2001). 
 
7.  For the purposes of Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), Japan reserves the right to adopt or maintain 
any measure with respect to permanent residents of another Party except those of a Party that 
has submitted a notification under subparagraph (k)(ii) 2 of Article XXVIII of GATS. 
 
8.  For the purposes of this List B: 
 
(a)  “JSIC” means Japan Standard Industrial Classification set out by the Ministry of Internal 
Affairs and Communications, and revised on 30 October 2013. 
 
(b)  “CPC” means Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical Papers Series M No. 
77, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United 
Nations, New York, 1991). 
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 71    
   
                                                   
19 For greater certainty, the central level of the Government of Japan can maintain such prohibition, limitation, or measure that is 
adopted or maintained at the initial transfer. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 72      
                                                   
20 For the purposes of this entry, “postal services” means delivery of other persons’ correspondence (“tanin-no-shinsho-no-
sotatsu”) specified in paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Postal Law (Law No. 165 of 1947) and correspondence delivery service 
(“shinshobin-no-ekimu”) within the meaning of the Law Concerning Correspondence Delivery Provided by Private Operators (Law 
No. 99 of 2002), but does not include special correspondence delivery services (“tokutei-shinshobin-ekimu”) within the meaning 
of the latter Law.  Services not included in this definition include delivery of parcels, packages, goods, direct mail, and periodicals. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 73    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 74    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 75    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 76    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 77    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 78    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 79    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 80    
   
                                                   
21 With respect to this entry, Japan may require the registration or authorisation of financial service suppliers of another Party and 
of financial instruments. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 81    
   
                                                   
22 Insurance intermediation services may be supplied only for insurance contracts allowed to be supplied in Japan. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 82      
                                                   
23 For the purposes of this entry, “fisheries” means the work of taking and cultivation of aquatic resources, including the following 
fisheries related activities: 
 
(a)  investigation of aquatic resources without taking such resources; 
 
(b)  luring of aquatic resources;  
 
(c)  preservation and processing of fish catches; 
 
(d)  transportation of fish catches and fish products; and 
 
(e)  provision of supplies to other vessels used for fisheries. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 83    
   
                                                   
24 For the purposes of this entry, "broadcasting" means the transmission of telecommunications with the aim of direct reception 
by the public (paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the Broadcast Law) and does not include on-demand services including those services 
provided over the internet. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 84    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 85    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 86    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 87    
   
                                                   
25 For the purposes of this entry, “airport operation services” means the supply of air terminal, airfield, and other airport 
infrastructure operation services on a fee or contract basis.  Airport operation services do not include air navigation services. 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 88    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 89    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 90    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 91    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 92    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 93    
   
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 94    
 
  ANNEX III – JAPAN – 95   