ANNEX IV 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON  
TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
KOREA 
 
 
1.  This Schedule sets out Korea's commitments with respect to the temporary entry of natural 
persons of a Party1 into, or their temporary stay in, the territory of Korea in accordance with 
Article 9.5 (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of Natural Persons). 
 
2.  Korea remains unbound in respect of the temporary entry of natural persons of a Party into, or 
their temporary stay in, the territory of Korea, except as set out in following commitments. For 
greater certainty, Korea reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure in respect of 
requirement of requisite visa and the conditions attached to temporary entry and temporary stay 
under such a visa for each of the categories specified below. 
 
3.  Nothing in this Agreement, including provisions in Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), shall be 
construed to impose any obligation on Korea regarding its immigration measures, except for 
Chapter 1 (Initial Provisions and General Definitions), Chapter 9 (Temporary Movement of 
Natural Persons), Chapter 18 (Institutional Provisions), Chapter 19 (Dispute Settlement) to the 
extent permitted by Article 9.9 (Dispute Settlement), and Chapter 20 (Final Provisions). 
 
 
                                                      
1 For the purposes of this Schedule, the definition of the natural person of a Party is as stipulated in the Article XXVIII of GATS. 
ANNEX IV –  KOREA – 1                                                       
2 For the purposes of this Schedule, “branch” is defined as an operating division or a representative office of the same 
organisation, which has an employee holding an extensive right to represent a parent housed in the territory of another Party. 
 
3 For the purposes of this Schedule, “designated affiliate” is defined as one of two subsidiaries, both of which are owned or 
controlled by the same parent, or as one of two legal entities, both of which are owned or controlled by the same group of 
shareholders who are partners of a partnership, a company or other legal entity and who have more than 50 per cent of the 
total equity of each of the two entities or have a responsibility for more than 50 per cent of the total investment amount of each 
of the two entities. 
ANNEX IV –  KOREA – 2 ANNEX IV –  KOREA – 3 4.  For transparency purposes: 
(a)  Natural persons whose temporary entry and temporary stay is permitted shall observe 
Korea's laws and regulations including immigration and labour laws and regulations. 
(b)  Korea's commitments regarding temporary movement of natural persons do not apply in 
the case of labour-management disputes. 
ANNEX IV –  KOREA – 4 