ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF RESERVATIONS AND NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR INVESTMENT 
 
 
LAO PDR 
 
 
 LIST A 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
   
 
1.  This List sets out, pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), Lao 
PDR’s existing measures that are not subject to some or all of the obligations imposed by:  
 
(a)  Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or 
 
(c)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors).  
 
2.  Each entry in this List sets out the following elements: 
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector or sectors for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Subsector refers to the specific subsector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers to the activities covered by the entry according to: 
 
(i)    International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) Revision 3 for manufacturing, 
agriculture, fishery, forestry, mining and quarrying; 
 
(ii)    If the entry does not exactly conform to the ISIC, Lao PDR specified the coverage 
of the entry, as necessary and appropriate; 
 
(d)  Level of Government indicates the level of government maintaining the listed measures; 
 
(e)  Obligations  Concerned  specifies  the  obligations  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  that, 
pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), do not apply to 
the listed measures; 
 
(f)  Description sets out the non-conforming measure for which the entry is made; and 
 
(g)  Source of Measure means the laws, regulations, or other measures that are the source 
of the non-conforming measure for which the entry is made. A measure cited in the 
Source of Measure element: 
 
(i)    means the measure as amended, continued or renewed as of the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement, and  
 
(ii)    includes any subordinate measure adopted or maintained under the authority of 
and consistent with the measure. 
 
3.  This List and List B pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures) 
follow the negative list with two list approach as follows: 
 
(a)  this List sets out commitments in relation to existing non-conforming measures which are 
subject to standstill obligations but not subject to ratchet mechanism; and 
 
(b)  List  B  sets  out  policy  flexibility  in  relation  to  measures  in  sectors,  subsectors  and 
activities. 
 
4.  Lao PDR may maintain any non-conforming measures other than those set out in this List 
provided that the non-conforming measures are in effect on the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement, and that Lao PDR notifies other Parties of the non-conforming measures within a 
period of 24 months of the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 2 5.  In the interpretation of an entry, all elements of an entry shall be considered. The Description 
element shall prevail over all the other elements. 
 
6.  These Explanatory Notes shall form part of the Lao PDR’s Schedule of Reservations and Non-
Conforming Measures for Investment. 
The Schedule shall follow the negative list with two  
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 3 1 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 4 2 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 5 3 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 6 4 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 7 5 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 8 6 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 9 7 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 10 8 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 11 9 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 12 10 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 13 LIST B 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List sets out, pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the 
specific sectors, subsectors or activities for which Lao PDR may maintain existing, or adopt new 
or more restrictive, measures that do not conform with obligations imposed by: 
 
(a)  Article 10.3 (National Treatment);  
 
(b)  Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); or 
 
(c)  Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors). 
 
2.  Each entry in this List sets out the following elements:  
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sector or sectors for which the entry is made; 
 
(b)  Subsector refers to the specific sector for which the entry is made; 
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers to the activities covered by the entry according to: 
 
(i)    International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) Revision 3 for manufacturing, 
agriculture, fishery, forestry, mining and quarrying; 
 
(ii)    If the entry does not exactly conform to the ISIC, Lao PDR specified the coverage 
of the entry, as necessary and appropriate; 
 
(d)  Obligations  Concerned  specifies  the  obligations  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  that, 
pursuant to 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), do not apply to the 
sectors, subsectors or activities listed in the entry; 
 
(e)  Description sets out the sector, subsector or activities covered by the entry; and 
 
(f)  Existing Measures identifies, for transparency purposes, a non-exhaustive list of existing 
measures that apply to the sectors, subsectors or activities covered by the entry.  
 
3.  List A and this List pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures) 
follow the negative list with two list approach as follows: 
 
(a)  List A sets out commitments in relation to existing non-conforming measures which are 
subject to standstill obligations but not subject to ratchet mechanism; and 
 
(b)  this List sets out policy flexibility in relation to measures in sectors, subsectors and 
activities. 
 
4.  In accordance with Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures), the Articles of 
this Agreement specified in the Obligations Concerned element of an entry do not apply to the 
sectors, subsectors and activities identified in the Description element of that entry. 
 
5.  In the interpretation of an entry, all elements of an entry shall be considered. The Description 
element shall prevail over all other elements. 
 
6.  These Explanatory Notes shall form part of the Lao PDR’s Schedule of Reservations and Non-
Conforming Measures for Investment. 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 14 1 
 
 
                                                           
1 For the purposes of this entry:  
 
(a)  a wholly domestic or foreign-owned investment is an investment entirely owned by either domestic or foreign 
investors, and can be either a single investor or group of investors in the enterprise or project in Lao PDR; 
 
(b)  business cooperation by contract is a joint business arrangement between domestic and foreign juridical persons 
including public and private parties through a business cooperation contract according to the laws and regulations of 
Lao PDR for a certain period of time without need to establish a new legal entity or branch in Lao PDR; 
 
(c)  a joint venture between a state-owned enterprise and a private enterprise is a partnership between a state-owned 
enterprise and a private enterprise in order to operate business, have co-ownership, and establish a new entity under 
the laws and regulations of Lao PDR; 
 
(d)  a public private partnership business is a joint-venture investment between a public authority and a private party 
under a joint-venture contract to implement a project of new construction, improvement of infrastructure, or provide a 
service to the public. 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 15 2 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 16 3 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 17 4 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 18 5 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 19 6 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 20 7 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 21 8 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 22 9 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 23 10 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 24 11 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 25 12 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 26 13 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 27 14 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 28 15 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 29 16 
 
 
  ANNEX III – LAO PDR – 30 