 
ANNEX IV 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON  
TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
MALAYSIA 
 
 
1.  The following sets out Malaysia’s commitments with respect to the temporary entry of natural 
persons of a Party into the territory of Malaysia in accordance with Chapter 9 (Temporary 
Movement of Natural Persons). 
 
2.  A natural person of a Party seeking temporary entry into the territory of Malaysia under Chapter 
9 (Temporary Movement of Natural Persons) and this Schedule shall be required to obtain the 
necessary visa and documentation prior to entry, and provide the requisite information and 
documentation in support of such application. Entry shall be granted subject to the terms, 
conditions, or limitations prescribed under Malaysia’s immigration laws and regulations. 
 
3.  Malaysia remains unbound in respect of the supply of a service by a service supplier of a Party 
through the presence of natural persons of a Party in the territory of Malaysia, except as set out 
in this Schedule. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, Malaysia remains unbound in respect of the supply of financial services by 
a service supplier of a Party through the presence of natural persons of a Party in the territory of 
Malaysia except as stipulated otherwise in the Appendix to List B (Specific Commitments for 
Financial Services – Malaysia) read together with entry 43 in List B of Malaysia’s Schedule in 
Annex  III  (Schedules  of  Reservations  and  Non-Conforming  Measures  for  Services  and 
Investment). 
 
5.  Malaysia’s commitments under Chapter 9 (Temporary Movement of Natural Persons)  with 
respect to the temporary entry of natural persons of a Party into the territory of Malaysia shall 
apply in relation to the categories of persons set out in the Horizontal Commitments below. 
 
6.  In accordance with Article 9.5 (Schedules of Specific Commitments on Temporary Movement of 
Natural Persons), for each category of natural persons set out in the Horizontal Commitments 
below, Malaysia specifies any terms, conditions, limitations, or qualifications that apply to the 
temporary entry of those natural persons into the territory of Malaysia. 
 
7.  The Horizontal Commitments below shall apply to the sectoral commitments set out in the 
Appendix (Sectoral Specific Commitments) to this Schedule where indicated, and subject to any 
further terms, conditions, limitations, or qualifications stipulated in that Appendix. 
 
8.  For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)  “CPC”, where referenced, refers to the activity according to the Provisional Central Product 
Classification (Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Department of International Economic 
and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991). The use of “**” 
against individual CPC codes indicates that the specific commitment for that code does not 
extend to the total range of services covered under that code; and 
 
(b)  “Unbound” means no commitment in the specified sector, subsector, or activity. 
 
9.  The Schedules of other Parties shall not be used to interpret Malaysia’s commitments or 
obligations under Chapter 9 (Temporary Movement of Natural Persons) or other Chapters of this 
Agreement.  
   
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 1  
HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS 
 
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 2  
 
   
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 3  
Appendix 
 
SECTORAL SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
 
MALAYSIA 
 
 
A.  SECTORS AND SUBSECTORS EXCEPT FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 4  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 5  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 6  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 7  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 8  
                                            
1 The NFP class licence enables the provision of niched or limited purpose network facilities such as radio communications 
transmitters for public mobile radio network services, radio communications transmitters for public radio paging network services, 
and radio communications transmitters and links for public wireless data network services, for the sole purpose of end users in 
buildings or a single clustered building complex. 
 
2 The NSP class licence enables the provision of niched customer access or niched connection services such as public mobile 
radio work services, one or two-way radio paging network services, radio communications transmitters for public radio paging 
network services, and radio communications transmitters and links for public wireless data network services, for the sole purpose 
of end users in buildings or a single clustered building complex. 
 
3 The ASP class licence enables the provision of application services such as audio text hosting services provided on an opt-in 
basis, directory services, and messaging services. 
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 9  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 10  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 11  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 12  
   
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 13  
B.  FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 
1.  The terms, conditions, limitations, or qualifications stipulated under the Horizontal Commitments 
shall not apply to financial services, including insurance, unless otherwise indicated in the 
commitments below. 
 
2.  In respect of offshore banks, offshore investment banks, commercial banks, investment banks, 
offshore  direct  insurance  companies,  offshore  reinsurance  companies,  offshore  insurance 
brokers,  offshore  insurance  underwriting  managers,  offshore  insurance  managers,  direct 
insurance companies, reinsurance companies, and representative offices of commercial banks 
and investment banks, the terms, conditions, limitations, or qualifications stipulated in the 
Financial  Services  Horizontal  Commitments  shall  apply  in  addition  to  the  specific  terms, 
conditions, limitations, or qualifications, as specified for each financial services activity. 
 
3.  For greater certainty, Malaysia’s commitments below shall not be interpreted as applying to the 
supply of Shariah-compliant financial services, unless specific entries are made in the banking, 
insurance, or capital markets subsectors accordingly. This approach is consistent with Malaysia’s 
commitments under the WTO and other existing Free Trade Agreements. 
 
4.  For greater certainty, temporary entry of natural persons in respect of supply of service shall be 
through the mode of commercial presence of offshore banks, offshore investment banks, 
commercial banks, investment banks, offshore direct insurance companies, offshore reinsurance 
companies, offshore insurance brokers, offshore insurance underwriting managers, offshore 
insurance managers, direct insurance companies, reinsurance companies, and representative 
offices of commercial banks and investment banks, as provided in the Appendix to List B (Specific 
Commitments for Financial Services – Malaysia) read together with entry 43 in List B of Malaysia’s 
Schedule in Annex III (Schedules of Reservations and Non-Conforming Measures for Services 
and Investment). 
 
 
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 14  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 15  
 
                                            
4 For purposes of this Schedule, “non-banks” means any non-bank for scheduled businesses as referred to in Malaysia’s Schedule 
of Specific Commitments under GATS. 
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 16  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 17  
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 18  
 
 
  ANNEX IV – MALAYSIA – 19 