ANNEX II 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS FOR SERVICES 
 
NEW ZEALAND 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  Specific commitments in this Schedule are prepared in accordance with the WTO Secretariat paper entitled "Scheduling of Initial Commitments on 
Trade in Services: Explanatory Note" (MTN.GNS/W/164). The classification of sectors in this Schedule is based on the 1991 provisional Central 
Product Classification (CPC) of the United Nations Statistical Office, while the ordering reflects the classification system used by the WTO Secretariat in 
MTN.GNS/W/120. In the context of CPC listings in this Schedule, the use of ** against individual CPC listings indicates that the service specified 
constitutes only part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
 
Overseas Investment 
 
2.  An “overseas person” is defined as an individual not normally resident in New Zealand; a company not incorporated in New Zealand; a New Zealand- 
incorporated company in which 25 per cent or more of any class of shares or 25 per cent or more of the voting power is held by overseas persons; or a 
nominee of the overseas person, whether or not the nominee is himself or herself an overseas person. 
 
Maritime Transport Services 
 
3.  Cabotage: for the purposes of this Schedule only, “cabotage” is defined as the transportation of passengers or goods between a port located in New 
Zealand and another port located in New Zealand and traffic originating and terminating in the same port located in New Zealand. 
 
4.  Maritime Freight Forwarding Services: the activity consisting of organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the 
acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information. 
 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment and Future Liberalisation 
 
5.  In accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 8.3 (Scheduling of Commitments), New Zealand is undertaking commitments under Article 8.6 (Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment). In accordance with subparagraph 1(b) of Article 8.6 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), New Zealand’s commitments on 
Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment are set out in Appendix I (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment Sectoral Coverage) to this Schedule.   
 
6.  In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 8.7 (Schedules of Specific Commitments), New Zealand includes a list of sectors or subsectors for future 
liberalisation in Appendix II (Future Liberalisation) to this Schedule. 
 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 1 7.  For the purposes of transparency only, the Attachment to this Schedule contains the non-conforming measures New Zealand typically identifies and the 
policy space typically reserved by New Zealand in its Schedules of Non-Conforming Measures and which New Zealand reserves the right to include in 
a future Schedule of Non-Conforming Measures under this Agreement.  For greater certainty, the Attachment to this Schedule is not a non-binding 
transparency list pursuant to Article 8.10 (Transparency List). 
 
8.  Unbound* means unbound due to technical feasibility. 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 2 ANNEX II 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS FOR SERVICES 
NEW ZEALAND 
 
Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
                                                      
1 See paragraph 2 of Explanatory Note. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 3 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 4 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
                                                      
2 “Creative arts” include the performing arts – including theatre, dance, and music – visual arts and craft, literature, film and video, language arts, creative on-line content, indigenous traditional 
practice and contemporary cultural expression, and digital interactive media and hybrid art work, including those that use new technologies to transcend discrete art form divisions. The term 
encompasses those activities involved in the presentation, execution, and interpretation of the arts, and the study and technical development of these art forms and activities. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 5 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 6 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 7 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 8 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 9 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 10 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 11 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 12 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 13  
Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 14 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 15 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 16 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 17 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 18 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 19 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 20 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 21 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 22 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
                                                      
3 Examples of these services may include the provision of extension or remedial tuition in relation to mathematics, science, or history. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 23 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
                                                      
4 New Zealand’s commitments on environmental services exclude the collection, purification, and distribution of water, including water for human use. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 24 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
                                                      
5 New Zealand’s commitments under items 6.D and 6.F combine to cover the entirety of CPC 9406 services with respect to consultancy. 
 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 25 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
   
                                                      
6 New Zealand’s commitments under items 6.D and 6.F combine to cover the entirety of CPC 9406 services with respect to consultancy. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 26 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 27 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 28 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 29 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
   
                                                      
7 As defined in subparagraphs (b)(v) through (xvi) of Article 1 (Definitions) of Annex 8A (Financial Services). 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 30 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 31 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 32 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 33 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
   
                                                      
8 As defined in subparagraph (a) of Article 8.1 (Definitions). 
 
9 As defined in subparagraph (k) of Article 8.1 (Definitions). 
 
10 As defined in subparagraph (c) of Article 8.1 (Definitions). 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 34 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
   
                                                      
11 “Airport operation services” means air terminal, airfield and other airport infrastructure operation services excluding airport security services and services covered in ground handling services. 
 
12 “Specialty air services” means any non-transportation air services, such as aerial fire-fighting, flight training, sightseeing, spraying, surveying, mapping, photography, parachute jumping, glider 
towing, and helicopter-lift for logging and construction, and other airborne agricultural, industrial and inspection services. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 35 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 36 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 37 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border Supply         2) Consumption abroad         3) Commercial presence         4) Presence of natural persons 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 38 APPENDIX I 
 
NEW ZEALAND’S MOST-FAVOURED-NATION TREATMENT SECTORAL COVERAGE 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Most-Favoured-Nation treatment applies to only Modes 1, 2, and 3, and does not apply to measures 
with respect to the supply of service by presence of natural persons. 
 
                                                      
13 For greater certainty, this includes, in respect of agreements on the liberalisation of trade in goods or services or investment, 
any measures taken as part of a wider process of economic integration or trade liberalisation between the parties to such 
agreements. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 39  
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 40  APPENDIX II 
 
 NEW ZEALAND’S FUTURE LIBERALISATION APPENDIX 
 
 
1.  This  Appendix  contains  the  subsectors  with  commitments  on  future  liberalisation,  for  the 
purposes of paragraph 3 of Article 8.7 (Schedules of Specific Commitments), for Modes 1, 2, 
and 3. 
 
2.  For  greater  certainty,  New  Zealand’s  future  liberalisation  commitments  do  not  apply  to 
measures with respect to the supply of service by presence of natural persons. 
 
3.  Future liberalisation does not apply to any of New Zealand’s horizontal commitments. 
 
4.  New Zealand commits future liberalisation on the following subsectors: 
 
 
   
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 41 ATTACHMENT 
 
 
For the purposes of transparency, regarding the commitment in Article 8.12 (Transition), New Zealand 
notes the following entries which describe the current measures and the policy space that New 
Zealand typically includes in its Schedule of Non-Conforming Measures and which New Zealand 
reserves the right to include as appropriate in its future Schedule of Non-Conforming Measures under 
this Agreement. 
 
 
Current Measures: 
 
New Zealand’s current measures entries relate to: 
 
  Requirements under New Zealand’s financial reporting regime for certain overseas non-issuer 
companies to file audited financial statements with the Registrar of Companies. 
 
  Restrictions on the registration of patent attorneys as set out in the Patents Act 1953. 
 
  Provisions in the Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001 relating to management of a national 
database for herd testing data. 
 
  Requirements  in  the  Constitution  of  Chorus  Limited  for  government  approval  for  the 
shareholding of any single overseas entity to exceed 49.9 per cent and that at least half of 
board directors are New Zealand citizens. 
 
  The provision under the Radiocommunications Act 1989 that requires written approval of the 
Chief Executive of the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment for the acquisition by 
foreign governments or their agents of licences or management rights to use the radio 
frequency spectrum, or any interest in it. 
 
  Provisions in the Primary Products Marketing Act 1953 that give the Government the ability to 
impose  regulations  enabling  the  establishment  of  statutory  marketing  authorities  with 
monopoly marketing  and  acquisition  powers for  products derived from beekeeping, fruit 
growing, hop growing, deer farming or game deer, or goats. Such regulations may, among 
other things, require that board members or personnel be nationals of or resident in New 
Zealand. 
 
  The  requirement  that  only  a  licensed  air  transport  enterprise  may  provide  international 
scheduled  air  services  as  a  New  Zealand  international  airline.  Licenses  are  subject  to 
conditions to  ensure compliance  with New Zealand’s air services agreements and may 
include requirements that an airline is substantially owned and effectively controlled by New 
Zealand nationals, has its principal place of business in New Zealand or is subject to the 
effective regulatory control of the New Zealand Civil Aviation Authority. 
 
  The restriction that no one foreign national may hold more than 10 per cent of shares that 
confer  voting  rights  in  Air  New  Zealand  unless  they  have  the  permission  of  the  Kiwi 
Shareholder. In addition, at least three members of the board of directors must be ordinarily 
resident in New Zealand, and more than half of the board of directors must be New Zealand 
citizens. 
 
  Any existing non-conforming tax measures. 
 
 
Policy Space: 
 
New Zealand’s policy space entries relate to: 
 
  The provision of public law enforcement and correctional services as well as certain social 
services established for a public purpose. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 42  
  Water, including the allocation, collection, treatment, and distribution of drinking water. 
 
  The devolution of a service that is provided in the exercise of governmental authority at the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
  The sale of any shares in an enterprise, or any assets of an enterprise, where the enterprise 
is wholly owned or under the effective control of the New Zealand Government. 
 
  The specific commitments New Zealand made under Article XVI of GATS (as set out in its 
Schedule of Specific Commitments).14  
 
  Certain foreign investment activities which require prior approval from the New Zealand 
Government (subject to the Overseas Investment Act 2005, the Fisheries Act 1996, and the 
Overseas Investment Regulations 2005),  and the  approval criteria to  be  applied to the 
categories of overseas investment that require approval under New Zealand’s overseas 
investment regime. 
 
  Existing bilateral or multilateral agreements, including measures taken as part of a wider 
process  of  economic  integration  or  trade  liberalisation  between  the  parties  to  such 
agreements. Also any future agreements relating to aviation, fisheries, and maritime matters. 
 
  The control, management, or use of protected areas or species owned or protected under 
enactments by the Crown. 
 
  Nationality or residency in relation to animal welfare and the preservation of plant, animal, and 
human life and health. 
 
  The foreshore and seabed, internal waters as defined in international law, territorial sea, the 
Exclusive Economic Zone, and the continental shelf. 
 
  The provision of publicly funded legal services. 
 
  The provision of fire-fighting services (excluding aerial fire-fighting services). 
 
  Research and development services carried out by State funded tertiary institutions or by 
Crown Research Institutes when such research is conducted for a public purpose; and certain 
research and experimental development services. 
 
  Composition and purity testing and analysis services; technical inspection services; other 
technical  testing  and  analysis  services;  geological,  geophysical,  and  other  scientific 
prospecting services; and drug testing services. 
 
  Controlling of the activities of foreign fishing consistent with the provisions of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
 
  The production, use, distribution, or retail of nuclear energy. 
 
  Services incidental to mining. 
 
  Immigration services. 
 
  Postal services. 
 
  Preferential co-production arrangements for film and television productions. 
 
                                                      
14 New Zealand’s Schedule of Specific Commitments under GATS will, for the purposes of this entry, be modified to reflect the 
additional commitments made in New Zealand’s Schedule in Annex II (Schedules of Specific Commitments for Services). 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 43   The promotion of film and television production in New Zealand and the promotion of local 
content on public radio and television, and in films. 
 
  The holding of shares in the co-operative dairy company arising from the amalgamation 
authorised under the Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001 (DIRA) or any successor body; 
and the disposition of assets of that company or its successor bodies. 
 
  The export marketing of fresh kiwifruit to all markets other than Australia. 
 
  Specification  of  the  terms  and  conditions  for  the  establishment  and  operation  of  any 
government endorsed allocation scheme for the rights to the distribution of export products 
falling within the HS categories covered by the Agreement on Agriculture to markets where 
tariff quotas, country-specific preferences, or other measures of similar effect are in force; and 
the  allocation of distribution rights  to  wholesale trade service suppliers pursuant to the 
establishment or operation of such an allocation scheme. 
 
  The establishment or implementation of mandatory marketing plans for the export marketing 
of products derived from agriculture, beekeeping, horticulture, arboriculture, arable farming, 
and the farming of animals, where there is support within the relevant industry for such a plan. 
 
  Statutorily protected educational terms and titles. 
 
  The supply of adoption services. 
 
  Hospital services and maternity and midwife services, to the extent they are provided by the 
private sector. 
 
  Gambling, betting, and prostitution services. 
 
  Cultural heritage of national value, public archives, library and museum services, and services 
for the preservation of historical or sacred sites or historical buildings. 
 
  Maritime cabotage, certain port services, the establishment of registered companies for the 
purpose of operating a fleet under the New Zealand flag, the registration of vessels in New 
Zealand, and the regulation and entry of ships crews to New Zealand. 
 
  Wholesale and retail trade services of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages for public 
health or social policy purposes. 
 
  The supply of compulsory social insurance for personal injury caused by accident, work 
related gradual process disease and infection, and treatment injury, as well as the supply of 
disaster insurance for residential property for replacement cover up to a defined statutory 
maximum. 
 
  Any taxation measure with respect to the sale, purchase, or transfer of residential property. 
ANNEX II – NEW ZEALAND – 44 