ANNEX III 
 
SCHEDULE OF RESERVATIONS AND NON-CONFORMING MEASURES FOR 
INVESTMENT 
 
 
THE PHILIPPINES 
 
 LIST A 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List sets out, pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming 
Measures), measures that do not conform to the obligations under: 
 
(a)   Article 10.3 (National Treatment); 
 
(b)   Article 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment);  
 
(c)   Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); and 
 
(d)   Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors).  
 
2.  This List and List B follow the negative list with two list approach as follows: 
 
(a)  This List sets out commitments in relation to existing non-conforming 
measures which will be subject to standstill obligations but not subject to 
ratchet mechanism; and 
 
(b)  List  B  sets  out  policy  flexibility  in  relation  to  measures  in  sectors, 
subsectors and activities. 
 
3.  The Philippines may add, withdraw or modify any of its reservations as set out 
in this List for a period of 24 months from the date of entry into force of this 
Schedule, provided that the non-conforming measure is in existence as of the 
date  of  entry  into  force  of  this  Agreement.  Any  addition,  withdrawal  or 
modification in this List will be submitted to the Depositary who will notify the 
other Parties, including the relevant laws and regulations.  Such reservation shall 
be deemed to form part of this Schedule upon such notification. 
 
4.   Each reservation shall set out the following elements, where applicable:  
 
(a)  Sector refers to the sectors in which a reservation is taken; 
 
(b)  Subsector refers to specific industries, products, or activities in which a 
reservation is taken;  
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers to the activities covered by the reservation 
according to International Standard Industrial Classification (hereinafter 
referred to as “ISIC”) Revision 3 for manufacturing, agriculture, fishery, 
forestry, mining and quarrying. If the reservation does not exactly conform 
to the ISIC, the Philippines specified the coverage of the reservation, as 
necessary and appropriate; 
 
(d)  Level of Government specifies the level of government maintaining the 
measure for which a reservation is taken;  
 
(e)  Type of Obligation refers to the obligation of National Treatment, Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment, Prohibition of Performance Requirements, 
and Senior Management and Board of Directors, as the case may be, 
which do not apply to the listed measure; 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 2 (f)  Description of Measure refers to measures that do not conform to 
National  Treatment,  Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment,  Prohibition  of 
Performance  Requirements,  and  Senior  Management  and  Board  of 
Directors for which a reservation is taken; and 
 
(g)  Source of Measure refers to existing measures that apply to the sector, 
subsector or activities covered by the reservations and is identified for 
transparency purposes only. 
 
5.   In the interpretation of a reservation, all elements of a reservation shall be 
considered. The Description of Measure element shall prevail over all other 
elements. 
 
6.   These Explanatory Notes shall form part of this List. 
 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 3 1 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 4 ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 5 ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 6 2 
 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 7 3 
                                                           
1 The foreign equity participation under this Reservation is not covered by Reservation No. 1 of List B. 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 8  
                                                           
2 The foreign equity participation under this Reservation is not covered by Reservation No. 1 of List B. 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 9 4 
 
 
                                                           
3 The foreign equity participation under this Reservation is not covered by Reservation No. 10 of List B. 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 10 5 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 11 6 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 12  
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 13 7 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 14 8 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 15 9 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 16 10 
 
                                                           
4 The foreign equity participation under this Reservation is not covered by Reservation No. 10 of List B. 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 17 11 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 18 LIST B 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTES 
 
 
1.  This List sets out, pursuant to Article 10.8 (Reservations and Non-Conforming 
Measures), measures that the Philippines may maintain existing, or adopt new 
or more restrictive measures that do not conform to the obligations under: 
 
(a)   Article 10.3 (National Treatment); 
 
(b)   Article 10.4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment);  
 
(c)   Article 10.6 (Prohibition of Performance Requirements); and 
 
(d)   Article 10.7 (Senior Management and Board of Directors).  
 
2.  This List and List A follow the negative list with two list approach as follows: 
 
(a)  List  A  sets  out  commitments  in  relation  to  existing  non-conforming 
measures which will be subject to standstill obligations but not subject to 
ratchet mechanism; and 
 
(b)  This List sets out policy flexibility in relation to measures in sectors, 
subsectors and activities. 
3.   Each reservation shall set out the following elements, where applicable:  
(a)  Sector refers to the sectors in which a reservation is taken; 
 
(b)  Subsector refers to specific industries, products, or activities in which a 
reservation is taken;  
 
(c)  Industry Classification refers to the activities covered by the reservation 
according to International Standard Industrial Classification (hereinafter 
referred to as “ISIC”) Revision 3 for manufacturing, agriculture, fishery, 
forestry, mining and quarrying. If the reservation does not exactly conform 
to the ISIC, the Philippines specified the coverage of the reservation, as 
necessary and appropriate; 
 
(d)  Level of Government specifies the level of government maintaining the 
measure for which a reservation is taken;  
 
(e)  Type of Obligation refers to the obligation of National Treatment, Most-
Favoured-Nation Treatment, Prohibition of Performance Requirements, 
and Senior Management and Board of Directors, as the case may be, 
which do not apply to the listed measure; 
 
(f)  Description of Measure refers to measures that do not conform to 
National  Treatment,  Most-Favoured-Nation  Treatment,  Prohibition  of 
Performance  Requirements,  and  Senior  Management  and  Board  of 
Directors for which a reservation is taken; and 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 19 (g)  Source of Measure refers to existing measures that apply to the sector, 
subsector or activities covered by the reservations and is identified for 
transparency purposes only. 
 
4.   In the interpretation of a reservation, all elements of a reservation shall be 
considered. The Description of Measure element shall prevail over all other 
elements. 
 
5.   These Explanatory Notes shall form part of this List. 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 20 1 
 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 21 2 
 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 22 3 
 
                                                           
5 Measures and mechanisms of local government units include general welfare, provision of basic services 
and facilities, generation of resources and creation of revenues within their respective territorial jurisdictions. 
 
6 These are systems, institutions, mechanisms, and technologies comprising a unique body of knowledge 
evolved through time that embody patterns of relationships between and among peoples and between 
peoples, their lands and resource environment, including such spheres of relationships which may include 
social, political, cultural, economic, religious spheres, and which are the direct outcome of the indigenous 
peoples, responses to certain needs consisting of adaptive mechanisms which have allowed indigenous 
peoples to survive and thrive within their given socio-cultural and biophysical conditions. 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 23 4 
 
                                                           
7 Registration of a foreign investment (equity and debt) with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) is required 
if the foreign exchange needed to service the repatriation of capital and the remittance of dividends, profits 
and earnings which accrue thereon shall be sourced from authorized financial institutions.  
  
The approval and registration with BSP of a foreign loan is required if the foreign exchange needed to service 
the loan shall be sourced from authorized financial institutions, except in the following cases, which require 
BSP prior approval and registration regardless of source of foreign exchange for servicing: (a) public debt; 
and (b) private debt which are: (i) guaranteed by government corporations or government financial 
institutions, or by authorized financial institutions; or (ii) granted by local banks and directly funded or 
collateralized by offshore loans or deposits. 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 24 5 
                                                           
8 “Pioneer Enterprise” shall mean a registered enterprise (1) engaged in the manufacture, processing or 
production, and not merely in the assembly or packaging of goods, products, commodities or raw materials 
that have not been or are not being produced in the Philippines on a commercial scale or (2) which uses a 
design, formula, scheme, method, process or system of production or transformation of any element, 
substance or raw materials into another raw material or finished goods which is new and untried in the 
Philippines or (3) engaged in the pursuit of agricultural, forestry and mining activities and/or services including 
the industrial aspects of food processing whenever appropriate, pre-determined by the Board, in consultation 
with the appropriate Department, to be feasible and highly essential to the attainment of the national goal, in 
relation to a declared specific national food and agricultural program for self-sufficiency and other social 
benefits of the project or (4) which produces non-conventional fuels or manufactures equipment which utilize 
non-conventional sources of energy or uses or converts to coal or other non-conventional fuels or sources 
of energy in its production, manufacturing or processing operations. Provided, That the final product in any 
of the foregoing instances, involves or will involve substantial use and processing of domestic raw materials, 
whenever available; taking into account the risks and magnitude of investment: Provided, further, That the 
foregoing definitions shall not in any way limit the rights and incentives granted to less-developed-area 
enterprises. 
 
9 The registered enterprise under Executive Order No. 226 (the Omnibus Investments Code of 1987) shall 
obligate itself to attain the status of a Philippine national within 30 years from the date of registration or with 
such longer period as the Board may require taking into account the export potential of the project. 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 25 ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 26 6 
 
 
                                                           
10 For greater certainty, this right extends to any preferential treatment accorded pursuant to a subsequent 
review or amendment of the relevant bilateral or multilateral international agreement.  
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 27 7 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 28 8 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 29 9 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
11 Illustrative Example: The Comprehensive Automotive Resurgence Strategy (CARS) Program under E.O. 
182, to augment and enhance policy and directions of existing motor vehicle development programs towards 
ensuring a resurgent automotive industry that supports innovation, technology transfer, environmental 
protection, and small and medium enterprises development. 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 30 10 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 31  
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 32 11 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 33 ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 34 12 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 35 13 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 36 14 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 37 15 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 38 16 
 
ANNEX III – THE PHILIPPINES – 39 