ANNEX IV 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON  
TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
THAILAND 
 
 
1.  The following sets out Thailand’s commitments in accordance with Chapter 9 (Temporary 
Movement of Natural Persons) with respect to its commitments for the temporary entry and 
temporary stay of natural persons of another Party covered under Article 9.2 (Scope).    
 
2.  Thailand reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure in respect of requirements of 
requisite visa, criteria, and conditions stipulated or may be stipulated by relevant authorities in 
obtaining permission for temporary entry or temporary stay. The criteria may include size of 
fully paid-up capital, employment creation, extent of foreign investment, export promotion, 
transfer of technology, special needs of the management, economic needs tests, and labour 
market needs tests.  
 
3.  Any measure in obtaining a licence or permission in any committed sector or subsector shall be 
set out in Thailand’s Schedule in Annex II (Schedules of Specific Commitments for Services). 
 
4.  The obligations of Thailand under this Agreement with respect to permanent residents of other 
Parties  are  unbound.  Thailand  reaffirms  its  rights  and  obligations  regarding  permanent 
residents as set out in its schedule of specific commitments in GATS. Nevertheless, where 
Parties exercise such rights, they shall not exercise them through this Agreement.  
 
5.  Thailand remains unbound in respect of the temporary entry of natural persons of another Party 
into, or their temporary stay in, the territory of Thailand under Chapter 9 (Temporary Movement 
of Natural Persons), except for sectors and subsectors set out in Appendix A (Sectoral Specific 
Commitments) and the categories of persons set out below. 
 
 
                                                     
1 All references to “juridical person” in this Schedule shall be as defined in subparagraph (d) of Article 8.1 (Definitions).  
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -1 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -2 
   
                                                     
2 In considering managerial needs, the following facts shall be taken into consideration by the relevant authority, namely: (1) 
size of fully paid-up capital; (2) employment creation; (3) extent of foreign investment; (4) export promotion; (5) transfer of 
technology; (6) special needs of the management.   
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -3Appendix A 
SECTORAL SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS3, 4 
 
 
Thailand extends its commitments under Article 9.4 (Grant of Temporary Entry) for the temporary 
entry and temporary stay of natural persons only for Short Term Business Visitor (BV) and Intra-
Corporate Transferee (ICT) engaging in the following subsectors only, and subject to conditions and 
limitations specified for each particular sector and subsector: 
 
                                                     
3 The classification of service sectors in this Schedule is based on the 1991 provisional Central Product Classification (CPC) 
CPC Version 1.1 and Version 2.1 of the United Nations Statistical Office unless otherwise indicated by the absence of a CPC 
number. The ordering reflects the services sectoral classification list as used in the GATT document MTN.GNS/W/120 dated 10 
July 1991. The scheduling of specific commitments follows the guidelines stated in GATT documents MTN.GNS/W/164 dated 3 
September 1993 and MTN.GNS/W/164/Add.1 dated 30 November 1993. 
 
4 The use of “**” against individual CPC codes indicates that the specific commitment for that code shall not extend to the total 
range of services covered under that code. 
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -4 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -5 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -6   
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -7                                                     
5 The commitments for securities companies under this subsector are separately listed below. 
 
6 The commitments on investment advisory for securities companies under this subsector are separately listed below. 
 
7 “Securities companies” means securities companies which are not commercial banks and insurance companies. 
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -8 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -9 
 
   
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -10Reference Paper 
NOTE TO THE APPENDIX 
 
For the purposes of this Appendix: 
1.  cabotage means the transportation or towage of passengers or goods, between a port or place 
located in Thai waters and another port or place located in Thai waters; and 
2.  maritime  cargo  handling  services  means  activities  exercised  by  stevedore  companies, 
including  terminal  operators,  but  not  including  the  direct  activities  of  dockers  when  this 
workforce is organised independently of the stevedoring or terminal operator companies. The 
activities include the organisation and supervision of:  
-  the loading or discharging of cargo to or from a ship;  
-  the lashing or unlashing of cargo;  
-  the reception or delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge. 
 
 
 
 
  ANNEX IV –THAILAND -11