 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 8.1.2: Schedule of Commitments of Singapore 
 
Cover Note 
 
Central Product Classification (“CPC”) 
 
1.  With  the  exception  of  telecommunications  services,  archive  services,  other 
maritime auxiliary services and financial services, the classification of services sectors 
shall be based on the 1991 provisional Central Product Classification of the United 
Nations Statistical Office. The ordering shall reflect the services sectoral classification 
list as used in GATT document MTN.GNS/W/120 dated 10 July 1991. The use of “ ** 
” against individual CPC codes indicates that the specific commitment for that code 
shall not extend to the total range of services covered under that code.  
 
2.  The  definitions  for  telecommunications  services,  archive  services,  other 
maritime auxiliary services and financial services shall be as stated in the schedule of 
specific commitments for these services.  
 
 
Format for Scheduling 
 
The scheduling of specific commitments shall follow the guidelines stated in 
GATT  documents  MTN.GNS/W/164  dated  3  September  1993  and 
MTN.GNS/W/164/Add.1 dated 30 November 1993. 
 
 
Scheduling of Measures Relating to both Market Access and National Treatment 
 
Measures inconsistent with both Articles 17 and 18 have been inscribed in the 
column relating to Article 17.  The inscription shall also be considered a qualification to 
Article 18. 
 
 
Supply of Services which are not Technically/Technologically Feasible 
 
Except for telecommunications services, the entry “ Unbound* ” means unbound 
due to lack of technical/technological feasibility.  
 
 
8-24 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
                                                 
1 In view of spectrum constraints, parties interested in deploying networks based on wireless technology 
will be licensed via a tender and/or auction process. 
2 Facilities-based operators are operators that intend to deploy any form of telecommunication networks, 
systems  and  facilities  to  offer  telecommunication  switching,  transmission  capacity  and  services  to 
existing licensed telecommunication operators, businesses and consumers. 
3  The  Info-Communications  Development  Authority  of  Singapore  (iDA)  will  consider  favourably 
applications  by  FBOs to  be  designated  as  PTLs  if  the  FBO  commits  to  substantial  infrastructure 
investment and rollout to offer services to a significant proportion of the population within a reasonable 
time period. In return, a PTL’s network installation process and the maintenance and protection of their 
networks receive special consideration under the Telecommunications Act of 1999. 
4 These networks can have international, nationwide local or selected local coverage. 
  
 
 
  
 
 
                                                 
5  Services-based  operators  are  operators  who  lease  telecommunications  network  elements  (i.e. 
transmission  capacity,  switching  services,  ducts,  fibre,  etc.)  from  FBO  licensees  to  provide 
telecommunication services to third parties or who resell the telecommunications services of FBOs. 
6 Under the class licensing scheme, the licence terms and conditions are gazetted. Anyone who provides 
the services will be deemed to have read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the class licence. They 
will also be required to register with iDA. 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
Guidance and  1)  Unbound  1)  Unbound   
counselling services       
not elsewhere  2) None  2) None except that 
classified related to    Singapore retains the 
children  3) None, except that  discretion to 
(93322)  the total number of  determine whether a 
  facilities/ service  non-resident service 
operations run by  supplier may solicit 
non-profit service  business or conduct 
suppliers that are  active marketing in 
partially state-funded  Singapore 
is limited to the   
quantity determined  3) None  
by a master plan of   
State-funded social  4) Unbound  
services in Singapore   
 
4) Unbound except as 
indicated in the 
horizontal section 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
APPENDIX 1:  TYPES  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES  EXCLUDED  FROM 
SINGAPORE’S SCHEDULE OF COMMITMENTS 
 
 
1.  Statutory Supervision Services With Accommodation for the Following Types 
of Clients (9331): 
 
(a)  women and girls detained in a place of safety under Section 160 of the 
Women’s Charter (93312); 
 
(b)  children detained in a place of safety under Section 8 of the Children & 
Young Persons (CYP) Act (93312); 
 
(c)  children  and  young  persons  detained  in  a  place  of  detention  under 
Section 44 (1) (f) CYP Act, or on probation to an approved school7 under 
Section 44 (1) (g) of the CYP Act (93319); 
 
(d)  children and young persons admitted to an approved home for statutory 
supervision under Section 49 (ii) of CYP Act (93312); 
 
(e)  persons placed on probation with the requirement of residence in an 
approved institution under Section 12 of the Probation of Offenders Act 
(93319). 
 
2.  Statutory  Supervision  Services  Without  Accommodation  for  the  Following 
Types of Clients (9332): 
 
(a)  children and young persons placed under supervision of an appointed 
welfare officer under Section 49 (i) of the CYP Act (93329); 
 
(b)  persons placed on probation without the requirement of residence in an 
approved institution under Section 5 of the Probation of Offenders Act 
(93329). 
 
                                                 
7   The term ‘approved school’ used in Section 44(1) (g) of the CYP Act denotes a remand home for 
young offenders, and not a mainstream educational institution.  Young offenders are detained in an 
‘approved school’ for rehabilitation rather than for formal education. 
 