3-326 
 
ANNEX 3.2 
 
GUIDANCE TEMPLATE FOR CERTIFICATION OF ORIGIN  
 
A certification of origin that is the basis for a claim for preferential tariff treatment 
under this Agreement should include the following elements: 
 
1. 
Importer, Exporter or Producer Certification of Origin 
 
Indicate whether the certifier is the exporter, producer or importer in accordance with 
Article 3.18. 
 
2. 
Certifier 
 
Provide the certifier’s name, address (including country), telephone number and 
e-mail address.  
 
3. 
Exporter 
 
Provide the exporter’s name, address (including country), e-mail address and 
telephone number if different from the certifier. This information is not required if the 
producer is completing the certification of origin and does not know the identity of the 
exporter.   
 
4.  
Producer 
 
Provide the producer’s name, address (including country), e-mail address and 
telephone number, if different from the certifier or exporter or, if there are multiple 
producers, state “Various” or provide a list of producers. A person that wishes for this 
information to remain confidential may state “Available upon request by the importing 
authorities”.  
 
5. 
Importer 
 
Provide, if known, the importer’s name, address, e-mail address and telephone 
number.    
 
6. 
Description and HS Tariff Classification of the Good 
 
(a) 
Provide a description of the good and the HS tariff classification of the good to 
the 6-digit level. The description should be sufficient to relate it to the good 
covered by the certification; and  
 
(b) 
If the certification of origin covers a single shipment of a good, indicate, if 
known, the invoice number related to the exportation. 
 
7. 
Origin Criterion 
3-327 
 
 
Specify the rule of origin under which the good qualifies. 
 
8. 
Blanket Period 
 
Include the period if the certification covers multiple shipments of identical goods for 
a specified period of up to 12 months as set out in Article 3.18.6.  
 
9. 
Authorised Signature and Date: 
 
The certification must be signed and dated by the certifier accompanied by the following 
statement or words to that effect. 
 
I certify that the goods described in this document qualify as originating and 
the information contained in this document is true and accurate. I assume 
responsibility for proving such representations and agree to maintain and 
present upon request or to make available during a verification visit, 
documentation necessary to support this certification. 
 
 
 
