 
ANNEX 6.4 
 
COSMETICS 
 
1.   This Annex shall apply to the preparation, adoption and application of technical 
regulations,  standards,  conformity  assessment  procedures,  marketing  authorisation1 and 
notification  procedures  of  central  government  bodies  that  may  affect  trade  in  cosmetic 
products between the Parties. This Annex shall not apply to a technical specification prepared 
by a governmental entity for its production or consumption requirements or a sanitary or 
phytosanitary measure. 
 
2.   A Party’s obligations under this Annex shall apply to any product that the Party 
defines as a cosmetic product pursuant to paragraph 3. For the purposes of this Annex, 
preparation  of  a  technical  regulation,  standard,  conformity  assessment  procedure  or 
marketing authorisation includes, as appropriate, the evaluation of the risks involved, the 
need to adopt a measure to address those risks, the review of relevant scientific or technical 
information, and the consideration of the characteristics or design of alternative approaches.  
 
3.   Each Party shall define the scope of the products subject to its laws and regulations 
for cosmetic products in its territory and make that information publicly available.  
 
4.   Recognising that each Party is required to define the scope of products covered by this 
Annex pursuant to paragraph 3, for the purposes of this Annex, a cosmetic product may 
include a product that is intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled, sprayed on or otherwise 
applied to the human body including the mucous membrane of the oral cavity and teeth, to 
cleanse, beautify, protect, promote attractiveness or alter the appearance.  
 
5.   Each  Party  shall  identify  the  agency  or  agencies  that  are  authorised  to  regulate 
cosmetic products in its territory and make that information publicly available.  
 
6.   If  more  than  one  agency  is  authorised  to  regulate  cosmetic  products  within  the 
territory of a Party, that Party shall examine whether there is overlap or duplication in the 
scope  of  those  authorities  and  eliminate  unnecessary  duplication  of  any  regulatory 
requirements resulting for cosmetic products.  
 
7.   The Parties shall seek to collaborate through relevant international initiatives, such as 
those aimed at harmonisation, as well as regional initiatives that support of those international 
initiatives,  as  appropriate,  to  improve  the  alignment  of  their  respective  regulations  and 
regulatory activities for cosmetic products.  
 
8.   When developing or implementing regulations for cosmetic products, each Party shall 
consider relevant scientific or technical guidance documents developed through international 
collaborative efforts. Each Party is encouraged to consider regionally-developed scientific or 
technical guidance documents that are aligned with international efforts.  
 
                                                           
1 The application of this Annex to marketing authorisations is without prejudice to whether a marketing 
authorisation meets the definition of a technical regulation, standard or conformity assessment procedure. 
6-25 
  
9.   Each Party shall observe the obligations set out in Article 2.1 and Article 5.1.1 of the 
TBT Agreement with respect to a marketing authorisation, notification procedure or elements 
of either that the Party prepares, adopts or applies for cosmetic products and that do not fall 
within the definition of a technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure.  
 
10.   Each Party shall ensure that it applies a risk-based approach to the regulation of 
cosmetic products.  
 
11.   In applying a risk-based approach in regulating cosmetic products, each Party shall 
take into account that cosmetic products are generally expected to pose less potential risk to 
human health or safety than medical devices or pharmaceutical products.  
 
12.   No Party shall conduct separate marketing authorisation processes or sub-processes 
for cosmetic products that differ only with respect to shade extensions or fragrance variants, 
unless a Party identifies a significant human health or safety concern.  
 
13.   Each Party shall administer any marketing authorisation process that it maintains for 
cosmetics products in a timely, reasonable, objective, transparent and impartial manner, and 
identify and manage any conflicts of interest in order to mitigate any associated risks.  
 
(a)   If a Party requires marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product, that Party 
shall provide an applicant with its determination within a reasonable period of 
time.  
 
(b)   If  a  Party  requires  marketing  authorisation  for  a  cosmetic  product  and  it 
determines that a marketing authorisation application for a cosmetic product 
under review in its jurisdiction has deficiencies that have led or will lead to a 
decision not to authorise its marketing, that Party shall inform the applicant 
that requests marketing authorisation and provide reasons why the application 
is deficient.  
 
(c)   If a Party requires a marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product, the Party 
shall ensure that any marketing authorisation determination is subject to an 
appeal or review process that may be invoked at the request of the applicant. 
For greater certainty, the Party may maintain an appeal or review process that 
is  either  internal  to  the  regulatory  body  responsible  for  the  marketing 
authorisation determination, such as a dispute resolution or review process, or 
external to the regulatory body.  
 
(d)   If a Party has granted marketing authorisation for a cosmetic product in its 
territory, the Party shall not subject the product to periodic re-assessment 
procedures as a condition of retaining its marketing authorisation.  
 
14.   If a Party maintains a marketing authorisation process for cosmetic products, that 
Party shall consider replacing this process  with  other mechanisms such as voluntary or 
mandatory notification and post-market surveillance.  
 
6-26 
  
15.   When  developing  regulatory  requirements  for  cosmetic  products,  a  Party  shall 
consider  its  available  resources  and  technical  capacity  in  order  to  minimise  the 
implementation of requirements that could:  
 
(a)   inhibit  the  effectiveness  of  procedures  for  ensuring  the  safety  or 
manufacturing quality of cosmetic products; or  
 
(b)   lead  to  substantial  delays  in  marketing  authorisation  regarding  cosmetic 
products for sale on that Party’s market.  
 
16.   No  Party  shall  require  the  submission  of  marketing  information,  including  with 
respect to prices or cost, as a condition for the product receiving marketing authorisation.  
 
17.   No  Party  shall  require  a  cosmetic  product  to  be  labelled  with  a  marketing 
authorisation or notification number. 
 
18.   No Party shall require that a cosmetic product receive marketing authorisation from a 
regulatory authority in the country of manufacture, as a condition for the product receiving 
marketing authorisation from the Party. For greater certainty, this provision shall not prohibit 
a Party from accepting a prior marketing authorisation issued by another regulatory authority 
as evidence that a product may meet its own requirements.  
 
19.   No Party shall require that a cosmetic product be accompanied by a certificate of free 
sale as a condition of marketing, distribution or sale in the Party’s territory.  
 
20.   If a Party  requires a manufacturer or supplier  of a cosmetic product  to indicate 
information on the product’s label, the Party shall permit the manufacturer or supplier to 
indicate  the  required  information  by  relabelling  the  product  or  by  using  supplementary 
labelling  of  the  product  in  accordance  with  the  Party’s  domestic  requirements  after 
importation but prior to offering the product for sale or supply in the Party’s territory.  
 
21.   No Party shall require that a cosmetic product be tested on animals to determine the 
safety of that cosmetic product, unless there is no validated alternative method available to 
assess safety. A Party may, however, consider the results of animal testing to determine the 
safety of a cosmetic product.  
 
22.   If a Party prepares or adopts good manufacturing practice guidelines for cosmetic 
products, it shall use relevant international standards for cosmetic products, or the relevant 
parts of them, as a basis for its guidelines unless those international standards or relevant 
parts would be an ineffective or inappropriate means for the fulfilment of the legitimate 
objectives pursued.  
 
23.   Each Party shall endeavour to share, subject to its laws and regulations, information 
from post-market surveillance of cosmetic products.  
 
24.   Each Party shall endeavour to share information on its findings or the findings of its 
relevant institutions regarding cosmetic ingredients.  
6-27 
  
 
25.   Each Party shall endeavour to avoid re-testing or re-evaluating cosmetic products that 
differ only with respect to shade extensions or fragrance variants, unless conducted for 
human health or safety purposes.  
 
6-28 
 