 
 
 
 
 
 
ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN  
 
NEW ZEALAND  
 
AND 
 
SINGAPORE  
 
ON 
 
RECOGNITION OF MEASURES AND STATUS
 
  
In accordance with Article 5.7 (Equivalence) of the Agreement between New Zealand 
and Singapore on a Closer Economic Relationship done at Singapore on 14 November 2000, 
with subsequent amendments, the following recognition of equivalence applies: 
 
 
Recognition of Measures1 and Status 
 
Definitions 
 
Yes  Trade  can  occur  in  accordance  with  normal  importer  due  diligence  and 
associated requirements being met. 
Yes (1)   Equivalence of government controls agreed. Where certification is required, 
model health attestations to be used as agreed and specified in Annex 1 with 
the  addition  of  any  additional  attestation  as  specified  under  the  special 
conditions column 
Yes (2)  Equivalence  of  government  controls  agreed  in  principle,  with  just  some 
specific issues as identified to be resolved. Trade can occur under equivalence 
provisions except for the specified issues where compliance is still required.  
Where certification is required, existing models to continue to be used unless 
otherwise agreed.   
Yes (3)   Trade  can  occur  in  compliance  with  the  importing  Party’s  requirements. 
Where required, either the importing country’s model health certificate or the 
health certificate as mutually agreed is to be used. 
No  Trade cannot currently occur 
 
                                                           
1 Unless otherwise specified under the provisions set out in this Implementing Arrangement, or unless an 
international standard exists, this Implementing Arrangement will not apply to sanitary measures related to food 
additives (all food additives and colours), processing aids, flavours, irradiation (ionization), contaminants 
(including  microbiological  standards),  labelling  of  foodstuffs,  nutritional  labelling,  medicated  feeds  and 
premixes.  
2 
  
1.  Meat (Fresh, Chilled, Frozen) of Ruminants2 for Human Consumption 
 
   
                                                           
2 Cattle, sheep, goats, deer etc. 
3 
  
2.  Partially Processed Meat Products3 of Ruminants2 for Human Consumption 
   
                                                           
3 Includes all non-ready-to-eat meat products including fats, edible by-products, casings made from animal intestines, processed products requiring cooking before 
consumption etc. 
4 
  
3.  Processed Ready-to-eat4 Meat of Ruminants2 for Human Consumption  
                                                           
4 Ready-to-eat means for direct consumption without further heat treatment including products shipped frozen for direct consumption when thawed. 
5 
  
 
 
4.  Feed for Food-Producing Animals Containing Material Derived from Animals5  
 
                                                           
5 Animals includes all terrestrial animals, birds and aquatic species. 
6 
  
5.  Pet food6 containing material derived from animals 5  
   
                                                           
6 For terrestrial pet animal species that are kept in households, laboratories and zoos as pets or exhibits, such as aviary birds, cats, dogs, lagomorphs, mustelids, reptiles, and 
rodents. 
7 NZ processing requirements do not specify particular time/temperature requirements, but instead require an analysis of hazards likely to occur and implementation of 
appropriate controls under a registered risk management programme as per our other animal products.  
7 
  
6.  Meat8 of Swine for Human Consumption 
 
   
                                                           
8 Fresh, frozen, chilled but not processed ready-to-eat meat products. 
8 
  
7.  Processed Ready-to-eat Meat Products of Swine for Human Consumption 
   
9 
  
8.  Avian9 Products 
                                                           
9 Includes chickens, ducks, turkeys etc. 
10 
  
 
   
                                                           
10 Includes liquid eggs, powdered eggs, pasteurised shell egg, hard boiled eggs, cooked omelette. 
11 
  
9.  Aquatic Products (for Human and Animal Consumption)  
12 
  
10.  Pasteurised11 Dairy12 Products for Human Consumption 
                                                           
11 Heated to a minimum of 720 C for 15 seconds or equivalent. 
12 Milk, cream, fermented milk, cheese, butter, ice-cream, dried milk, evaporated milk, condensed milk etc.  
13 “Shelf stable” means stable at room temperature i.e. does not require refrigeration. 
13 
  
 
IN  WITNESS  whereof  the  undersigned,  being  duly  authorised  by  their  respective 
governments, have signed this Arrangement. 
 
 
 
SIGNED in duplicate at Singapore this 17th day of May 2019. 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore:  For New Zealand: 
 
 
 
 
Jasmine Quah Zubair  Keawe Woodmore  
  Chief Negotiator for the upgraded 
Director (Southeast Asia and Oceania)  ANZSCEP 
Ministry of Trade and Industry  Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
 
 
 
   
14 
  
Annex 1 
Official health certificates will cover consignments of live animals and/or animal products 
being traded between the participants. 
 
Health Attestations: 
Yes (1) model health attestation to be used:  
“The  (insert  live  animal  or  animal  product)  herein  described,  comply  with  the  relevant 
(Singapore/New Zealand*) (animal health/public health*) standards and requirements which 
have  been  recognised  as  equivalent  to  the  (New  Zealand/Singapore*)  standards  and 
requirements  set  out  in  the  Arrangement  between  New  Zealand  and  Singapore  on 
Recognition of Measures and Status referred to in Chapter 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures) of the Agreement between New Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic 
Relationship done at Singapore on 14 November 2000, with subsequent amendments. 
 
* Delete as appropriate 
 
15 
 