 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN  
 
NEW ZEALAND  
 
AND 
 
SINGAPORE  
 
 
ON  
 
COMPETENT AUTHORITIES AND CONTACT POINTS
  
In accordance with Article 5.5 (Competent Authorities and Contact Points) of the 
Agreement between New Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic Relationship done at 
Singapore on 14 November 2000, with subsequent amendments, the parties have decided on 
the following competent authorities and contact points: 
 
 
A.  Competent Authorities 
 
1.  The competent authorities of Singapore are the Singapore Food Agency (hereinafter 
referred to as SFA) and the National Parks Board (hereinafter referred to as NParks). In this 
respect, the following applies: 
 
(a)  SFA is the national authority responsible for food safety from farm to fork. 
SFA adopts a science-based risk analysis and management approach based on 
international standards to evaluate and ensure food safety; and 
 
(b)  NParks is the national authority responsible for animal and plant health as well 
as  animal  and  wildlife  management.  NParks  administers  a  comprehensive 
programme  to  prevent  the  introduction  of  animal  diseases  of  agricultural, 
economic and public health importance and also a comprehensive programme 
to control as well as prevent the incursion of diseases and pests of economic 
and plant health importance. The Animal and Veterinary Service (AVS) is a 
cluster within NParks and is the main point of contact for animal health, 
animal welfare and management matters. 
 
2.  The  competent  authority  of  New  Zealand  is  the  Ministry  for  Primary  Industries 
(hereinafter referred to as MPI) which is responsible for ensuring a resilient supply of safe 
and wholesome food, safeguarding the health of animals, fish and plants, and facilitating 
trade in food and agricultural products. In this respect, the following applies: 
 
(a)  MPI is the competent authority responsible for import and export inspection 
and quarantine; 
 
(b)  MPI is the national authority responsible for food safety for all food from 
production to retail. MPI adopts a science-based risk analysis and management 
approach based on international standards to evaluate and ensure food safety; 
and 
 
(c)  MPI  is  the  national  authority  responsible  for  animal  and  plant  health.  It 
administers a comprehensive biosecurity programme to control and prevent 
the introduction of animal diseases of agricultural, economic and public health 
importance and also a comprehensive programme to control as well as prevent 
the incursion of diseases and pests of economic and plant health importance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
  
B.  Contact Points 
 
IN  WITNESS  whereof  the  undersigned,  being  duly  authorised  by  their  respective 
governments, have signed this Arrangement. 
 
 
 
SIGNED in duplicate at Singapore this 17th day of May 2019. 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore:  For New Zealand: 
 
 
 
 
Jasmine Quah Zubair  Keawe Woodmore  
  Chief Negotiator for the upgraded 
Director (Southeast Asia and Oceania)  ANZSCEP 
Ministry of Trade of Industry   Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
 
2 
 