 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN  
 
NEW ZEALAND  
 
AND 
 
SINGAPORE  
 
 
ON THE  
 
RECOGNITION OF THE EQUIVALENCE OF FOREIGN 
DISEASE AND PEST CONTROL AND ZONING MEASURES 
AS THEY APPLY TO TRADE 
 
  
In accordance with Article 5.6 (Adaptation to Regional Conditions, Including Pest- or 
Disease-Free Areas and Areas of Low Pest or Disease Prevalence) of the Agreement between 
New Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic Relationship done at Singapore on 14 
November, with subsequent amendments, the following Recognition of the Equivalence of 
Foreign Disease and Pest Control and Zoning Measures as they Apply to Trade has been 
decided: 
 
 
Paragraph 1: Scope  
 
This Arrangement describes the understanding reached between the Government of 
New  Zealand and the  Government  of the Republic of Singapore (“the Participants”) to 
minimise the disruption to trade due to Foreign Animal Disease or Plant Pest outbreaks by 
enhancing mutual understanding and acceptance of each other’s processes for managing the 
animal or plant health risks associated with such outbreaks. 
 
 
Paragraph 2: Definitions 
 
For the purpose of this Arrangement: 
 
Affected Participant means a Participant that has a Foreign Animal Disease or Plant Pest as 
listed in Schedule 1 within its territory;  
 
Competent  Authority  means  the  part  of  the  Participant  that  has  responsibility  for 
administering  the  laws  and  providing  the  assurances  associated  with  the  scope  of  this 
Arrangement; 
 
Foreign Animal Disease or Plant Pest (FADPP) means an animal disease or plant pest or 
disease contained within Schedule 1; 
 
Relevant International Standards includes the relevant sections of the Terrestrial Animal 
Health  Standards  Code  of  the  World  Organisation  for  Animal  Health  and  the  relevant 
International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures established under the International Plant 
Protection Convention;  
 
Zone means a clearly defined part of a territory containing an animal or plant subpopulation 
with a distinct health or pest status with respect to a specific disease or pest for which 
appropriate surveillance, control and biosecurity measures have been applied for the purpose 
of assuring the safety of international trade; and 
 
zoning means meeting requirements necessary to establish a Zone in accordance with the 
Relevant International Standards. 
 
 
Paragraph 3: General Principles 
 
1.  The prevention and management of the potential further spread of risks associated 
with a FADPP outbreak both within and from its territory is primarily the responsibility of 
the Affected Participant. 
1 
  
2.  The Relevant International Standards provide guidance on the core components of 
competent veterinary and plant protection official control services, including those relevant to 
a FADPP emergency response system, and provide guidance on additional factors that the 
Participants  intend  to  take  into  account  when  determining  the  conditions  under  which 
animals, plants and other commodities can continue to be safely traded.    
 
3.  Management of risks associated with FADPPs requires the maintenance of competent 
and adequately resourced veterinary and plant protection official control services that can 
credibly establish and maintain Zones free of disease or pest and ensure appropriate product 
treatments, segregation and certification systems are in place to assure the safety of exports. 
 
4.  Confidence  in  the  competence  of  FADPP  emergency  response  and  associated 
certification  systems  can  be  enhanced  through  the  regular  sharing  of  information, 
participation  in  each  other’s  response  simulation  exercises,  observation  of  each  other’s 
responses and timely and appropriate communications in the event of any FADPP outbreak. 
 
5.  The Participants intend that activities under this Arrangement be in accordance with 
their applicable laws and regulations. 
 
 
Paragraph 4: Intentions  
 
1.   The Participants accept and commit to the application of the concepts of zoning and 
other treatments for the purposes of both disease and pest control and continuing safe trade 
between them. 
 
2.  As soon as practicable, the respective Competent Authorities will: 
 
(a)  conduct  evaluations  of  the  capabilities  and  processes  relevant  to  this 
Arrangement, specifically including evaluations of the: 
 
(i)  veterinary  and  phytosanitary  infrastructure  and  FADPP  emergency 
response systems of each Participant and the assurances this provides 
with respect to their competence in establishing and maintaining Zones 
or places of production; and  
 
(ii)  identification,  treatment,  sorting,  segregation,  traceability  and 
certification systems and the assurances these provide with respect to 
the continued safe trade of certified exported commodities during an 
outbreak of a FADPP;  
 
(b)  explore  conditions  under  which  safe  trade  in  animals,  plants  and  other 
commodities of mutual interest may be maintained during a FADPP outbreak, 
including but not limited to the rapid recognition of zoning or area freedom 
decisions by an Affected Participant;  
 
(c)  establish Schedules to this Arrangement setting out the FADPPs covered by 
this Arrangement and the conditions of trade as deemed necessary and as it 
applies to trade in selected animals, plants and other commodities between the 
Participants consistent with the evaluations; and  
2 
  
(d)  develop  a  guidance  framework  to  support  the  maintenance  of  this 
Arrangement and its application in the event of a FADPP outbreak. 
 
 
Paragraph 5: Actions in a FADPP Outbreak 
 
In the event of a FADPP outbreak, the Participants intend: 
 
 (a)  to inform the other Participant of any change in status as soon as a FADPP 
determination  is  deemed  likely,  including  information  on  zoning  or  area 
freedom decisions, any risks to animals, plants or other commodities that may 
have already left their territory, and to thereafter provide regular response 
updates and respond to specific requests; 
 
(b)  to maintain appropriate movement controls of animals, plants and relevant risk 
materials and adopt effective strategies to prevent the spread of the FADPP 
from the described Zones and minimise the duration of the FADPP outbreak;   
 
(c)  to provide a description of disease, pest control or eradication Zones and 
disease- or pest-free Zones, and epidemiological information to support zoning 
decisions based on tracing and surveillance activities; 
 
(d)  to accept the decisions of the Affected Participant’s Competent Authority to 
establish, maintain, or release disease, pest control or eradication Zones; and 
 
(e)  where  trade  pre-exists,  accept  imports  of  animals,  plants  and  other 
commodities  that  have  been  certified  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
provisions of the Schedules to this Arrangement.   
 
 
Paragraph 6: Ongoing Cooperation and Communication 
 
1.  With respect to routine ongoing cooperation and communication, the Participants 
intend to: 
 
(a)  continue to cooperate and share intelligence and other information as relevant 
to  the  continued  maintenance  of  competent  FADPP  emergency  response 
systems  and  to  demonstrate  confidence  in  each  other’s  preparedness  and 
ability to respond; 
 
(b)  facilitate,  where  appropriate,  visits  by  their  respective  experts  and 
participation in each other’s response simulation exercises; and 
 
(c)   ensure the necessary administrative processes are progressed well in advance 
so that the alternative certification attestations recorded in the Schedules to 
this Arrangement can be substituted into existing certificates without further 
delays  if  a  FADPP  outbreak  occurs  within  the  territory  of  either  of  the 
Participants. 
 
2.  With respect to all communications of information, the Participants intend that: 
3 
  
 
(a)  any  information  received  under  this  Arrangement  should  be  treated  as 
confidential  information  and  be  protected  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
Participant  receiving  the  information  would  protect  its  own  confidential 
information. Such confidential information or any part thereof may not be 
disclosed  without  the  express  consent  of  the  Participant  providing  the 
information; and  
 
(b)  the  duty  to  respect  confidentiality  does  not  apply  to  information  that  the 
Participant is required to disclose under applicable domestic law or by legal 
process. In such situations, the disclosing Participant should inform the other 
Participant of the disclosure. 
 
 
Paragraph 7: Review and Amendment 
 
1.  The Participants intend for their respective Competent Authorities to regularly review 
the Schedules and commitments within this Arrangement to ensure they stay current. 
 
2.  The  Competent  Authorities  of  the  Participants  may  amend  this  Arrangement  by 
mutual consent in writing. 
 
3.  The Competent Authorities of the Participants may, by mutual consent in writing, 
establish and subsequently amend the Schedules to this Arrangement in relation to the trade 
between them. 
 
 
Paragraph 8: Effective Date 
 
This Arrangement comes into effect on the date of its signature by the Participants. 
 
 
IN  WITNESS  whereof  the  undersigned,  being  duly  authorised  by  their  respective 
governments, have signed this Arrangement. 
 
 
 
SIGNED in duplicate at Singapore this 17th day of May 2019. 
 
 
 
For the Republic of Singapore:  For New Zealand: 
 
 
 
 
Jasmine Quah Zubair  Keawe Woodmore  
  Chief Negotiator for the upgraded 
Director (Southeast Asian and Oceania)  ANZSCEP 
Ministry of Trade and Industry  Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade 
4 
  
Schedule 1 
 
1.1  Animal Diseases for which National Regionalisation Decisions can be taken 
 
(a)  Foot-and-mouth disease 
 
(b)  Swine vesicular disease 
 
(c)  Vesicular stomatitis 
 
(d)  African horse sickness 
 
(e)  African swine fever 
 
(f)  Bluetongue 
 
(g)  Highly pathogenic avian influenza 
 
(h)  Newcastle disease 
 
(i)  Peste des petits ruminants 
 
(j)  Classical swine fever 
 
(k)  Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia 
 
(l)  Sheep pox 
 
(m)  Rift Valley fever 
 
(n)  Lumpy skin disease 
 
(o)  Infectious haematopoietic necrosis (IHN) 
 
(p)  Spring viraemia of carp (SVC) 
 
(q)  Viral haemorrhagic septicaemia (VHS) 
  
1.2  Plant Pests for which an Area Freedom Declaration can be made 
 
(a)  New Zealand is free of all economically important fruit flies. 
 
(b)  This  Arrangement  applies  to  all  economically  significant  Tephritidae  for 
which New Zealand operates active surveillance programmes.  
 
5 
 