 
5-1 
 
CHAPTER 5 
 
SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
Article 5.1: Definitions 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Chapter:  
 
SPS Agreement means the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures, set out in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement; and 
 
WTO SPS Committee means the Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 
established 
under Article 12 of the SPS Agreement. 
 
2. 
The definitions in Annex A of the SPS Agreement are incorporated into this Chapter 
and shall form part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis.  
 
3. 
The relevant definitions developed by the International Office of Epizootics (OIE), 
the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) and the Codex Alimentarius 
Commission apply in the implementation of this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 5.2: Objectives 
 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to:  
 
(a) 
uphold and enhance implementation of the SPS Agreement and applicable 
international standards, guidelines and recommendations developed by the 
OIE, the IPPC and the Codex Alimentarius Commission;  
 
(b) 
expand trade opportunities through facilitation of trade between the Parties 
through seeking to resolve trade access issues, while protecting human, animal 
or plant life or health in the territory of the Parties;  
 
(c) 
provide a means to improve communication, cooperation and resolution of 
sanitary and phytosanitary issues; and  
 
(d) 
establish a mechanism for the recognition of equivalence of sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures and regionalisation practices maintained by the Parties 
consistent with the protection of human, plant and animal life or health.  
 
 
Article 5.3: Scope 
 
1. 
 This Chapter shall apply to all sanitary or phytosanitary measures of a Party that 
may, directly or indirectly, affect trade between the Parties.  
 
 
5-2 
 
2. 
 Nothing in this Chapter or any implementing arrangement under this Chapter shall 
limit the rights or obligations of the Parties pursuant to the SPS Agreement.  
 
 
Article 5.4: Committee to Consider Sanitary and Phytosanitary Matters 
 
 
 Matters relating to the implementation of this Chapter shall be considered by the 
competent authorities of the Parties through the Committee on Biosecurity, Food and Primary 
Products established under Article 15.3 (Committee on Biosecurity, Food and Primary 
Products). 
  
 
Article 5.5: Competent Authorities and Contact Points 
 
1. 
The competent authorities responsible for the implementation of the measures referred 
to in this Chapter are listed in the Arrangement between New Zealand and Singapore on 
Competent Authorities and Contact Points (Implementing Arrangement 1).  The contact 
points that have the responsibilities relating to notification are also set out in Implementing 
Arrangement 1. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall inform each other of any significant changes in the structure and 
organisation of its competent authorities or contact points. The Committee on Biosecurity, 
Food and Primary Products shall amend Implementing Arrangement 1 to reflect such 
changes. 
  
 
Article 5.6: Adaptation to Regional Conditions, Including Pest- or Disease-Free Areas 
and Areas of Low Pest or Disease Prevalence 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that adaptation to regional conditions, including regionalisation, 
zoning and compartmentalisation, is an important means to facilitate trade.  
 
2. 
The Parties shall take into account the relevant guidance of the WTO SPS Committee 
and international standards, guidelines and recommendations.  
 
3. 
The Parties may cooperate on the recognition of pest- or disease-free areas, and areas 
of low pest or disease prevalence with the objective of acquiring confidence in the procedures 
followed by each Party for the recognition of pest- or disease-free areas, and areas of low pest 
or disease prevalence.  
 
4. 
When an importing Party receives a request for a determination of regional conditions 
from an exporting Party and determines that the information provided by the exporting Party 
is sufficient, it shall initiate an assessment within a reasonable period of time.  
 
5. 
When an importing Party commences an assessment of a request for a determination 
of regional conditions under paragraph 4, that Party shall promptly, on request of the 
exporting Party, explain its process for making the determination of regional conditions.  
 
 
5-3 
 
6. 
On request of the exporting Party, the importing Party shall inform the exporting 
Party of the status of the assessment of the exporting Party’s request for a determination of 
regional conditions.  
 
7. 
When an importing Party recognises specific regional conditions of an exporting 
Party, the importing Party shall communicate to the exporting Party in writing and implement 
the decision within a reasonable period of time.  
 
8. 
When the Parties are involved in a particular determination they may also decide in 
advance the risk management measures that will apply to trade between them in the event of 
a change in the status.  
 
9. 
If the evaluation of the evidence provided by the exporting Party does not result in a 
determination to recognise pest- or disease-free areas, or areas of low pest and disease 
prevalence, the importing Party shall provide the exporting Party with the rationale for its 
determination.  
 
10. 
If there is an incident that results in the importing Party modifying or revoking the 
determination recognising regional conditions, on request of the exporting Party, the Parties 
shall cooperate to assess whether the determination can be reinstated.  
 
11. 
 The Arrangement between New Zealand and Singapore on the Recognition of the 
Equivalence of Foreign Disease and Pest Control and Zoning Measures as They Apply to 
Trade (Implementing Arrangement 2) lists those areas or parts of each Party’s territory that 
are free of certain diseases or pests and recognises the ability for the exporting party to 
continue to provide assurances should an incursion occur.  
 
12. 
In the event of an incursion of a disease or pest specified in Implementing 
Arrangement 2, the importing Party shall recognise the exporting Party’s measures specified 
in the implementing arrangement for the purposes of facilitating trade. 
 
13. 
The Parties may agree to list additional diseases or pests in Implementing 
Arrangement 2, in accordance with the criteria set out in this Article and any additional 
criteria agreed.  
 
 
Article 5.7: Equivalence 
 
1. 
The Parties acknowledge that recognition of the equivalence of sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures is an important means to facilitate trade. Further to Article 4 of the 
SPS Agreement, the Parties shall apply equivalence to a group of measures or to measures on 
a systems-wide basis, to the extent feasible and appropriate. In determining the equivalence 
of a specific sanitary or phytosanitary measure, group of measures or measures on a systems-
wide basis, each Party shall take into account the relevant guidance of the WTO SPS 
Committee and international standards, guidelines and recommendations.  
 
2. 
On request of the exporting Party, the importing Party shall explain the objective and 
rationale of its sanitary or phytosanitary measure and clearly identify the risk the sanitary or 
phytosanitary measure is intended to address.  
 
5-4 
 
 
3. 
When an importing Party receives a request for an equivalence assessment and 
determines that the information provided by the exporting Party is sufficient, it shall initiate 
the equivalence assessment within a reasonable period of time.  
 
4. 
When an importing Party commences an equivalence assessment, that Party shall 
promptly, on request of the exporting Party, explain its equivalence process and plan for 
making the equivalence determination and, if the determination results in recognition, for 
enabling trade.  
 
5. 
The recognition of equivalence requires an assessment and acceptance of:  
 
(a) 
the legislation, standards and procedures, as well as the programmes in place 
to allow control and to ensure domestic and importing country requirements 
are met;  
 
(b) 
the documented structure of the competent authorities, their powers, their 
chain of command, their modus operandi and the resources available to them; 
and 
  
(c) 
the performance of the competent authorities in relation to the control and 
assurance programmes.  
 
In this assessment, the Parties shall take account of experience already acquired. 
  
6. 
The importing Party shall accept the sanitary or phytosanitary measure of the 
exporting Party as equivalent if the exporting Party objectively demonstrates that its measure 
achieves the importing Party's appropriate level of protection or has the same effect in 
achieving the objective as the importing Party’s measure. 
 
7. 
When an importing Party recognises the equivalence of an exporting Party’s specific 
sanitary or phytosanitary measure, group of measures or measures on a systems-wide basis, 
the importing Party shall communicate to the exporting Party in writing. The recognition 
shall be applied to the trade between the Parties without undue delay and shall be recorded in 
the Arrangement between New Zealand and Singapore on Recognition of Measures and 
Status (Implementing Arrangement 3) within a reasonable period of time. 
 
8. 
If an equivalence determination does not result in recognition by the importing Party, 
the importing Party shall provide the exporting Party with the rationale for its decision.  
 
9. 
Where equivalence has not been recognised or where an application is pending, trade 
shall take place under the conditions required by the importing Party to meet its appropriate 
level of protection. The exporting Party may agree to meet the importing Party's conditions, 
without affecting the result of the process of determining equivalence.  
 
10. 
Implementing Arrangement 3 may list:  
 
 
5-5 
 
(a) 
those groups of measures or systems applicable to a sector or part of a sector, 
for which the respective sanitary or phytosanitary measures are recognised as 
equivalent for trade purposes;  
 
(b) 
actions to enable the assessment of equivalence to be completed in accordance 
with the process set out in this Article, and by any agreed dates, or as specified 
by the importing Party; or  
 
(c) 
the specific guarantees related to recognition of special status provided for in 
Implementing Arrangement 2; and 
 
(d) 
may also list those sectors, or parts of sectors, for which the Parties apply 
differing sanitary or phytosanitary measures and have not concluded the 
determination provided for in paragraph 7.  
 
 
Article 5.8: Science and Risk Analysis 
  
1. 
The Parties recognise the importance of ensuring that their respective sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures are based on scientific principles.  
 
2. 
Each Party shall ensure that its sanitary and phytosanitary measures either conform to 
the relevant international standards, guidelines or recommendations or, if its sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures do not conform to international standards, guidelines or 
recommendations, ensure they are based on a risk assessment.  
 
3. 
Each Party shall:  
 
(a) 
ensure that its sanitary and phytosanitary measures do not arbitrarily or 
unjustifiably discriminate against the other Party where identical or similar 
conditions prevail, including between its own territory and that of the other 
Party; and 
 
(b) 
conduct its risk analysis in a manner that is documented and that provides the 
other Party opportunity to comment.  
 
4. 
Each Party shall ensure that each risk assessment it conducts is appropriate to the 
circumstances of the risk at issue and takes into account reasonably available and relevant 
scientific data, including qualitative and quantitative information.  
 
5. 
When conducting its risk analysis, each Party shall:  
 
(a) 
take into account relevant guidance of the WTO SPS Committee and 
international standards, guidelines and recommendations;  
 
(b) 
consider risk management options that are not more trade restrictive than 
required, including the option of facilitating trade by not taking any measure 
to achieve the level of protection that the Party has determined to be 
appropriate; and  
 
5-6 
 
 
(c) 
select a risk management option that is not more trade restrictive than required 
to achieve the sanitary or phytosanitary objective, taking into account 
technical and economic feasibility.  
 
6. 
On request of the exporting Party, the importing Party shall inform the exporting 
Party of the progress of a specific risk analysis request, and of any delay that may occur 
during the process.  
 
7. 
If the importing Party, as a result of a risk analysis, adopts a sanitary or phytosanitary 
measure that allows trade to commence or resume, the importing Party shall implement the 
measure within a reasonable period of time.  
 
8. 
Without prejudice to Article 5.13, no Party shall stop the importation of a good of 
another Party solely for the reason that the importing Party is undertaking a review of its 
sanitary or phytosanitary measure, if the importing Party permitted the importation of that 
good of the other Party when the review was initiated.  
 
 
Article 5.9: Verification 
  
1. 
In order to maintain confidence in the effective implementation of the provisions of 
this Chapter, each Party shall have the right to carry out audit and verification of the 
procedures of the exporting Party, which may include an assessment of all or part of the 
competent authorities' total control programme, including, if appropriate:  
 
(a) 
reviews of the inspection and audit programmes; and  
 
(b) 
on-site checks.  
 
2. 
An audit shall be systems-based and designed to check the effectiveness of the 
regulatory controls of the competent authorities of the exporting Party.  
 
3. 
Each Party shall also have the right to carry out import checks for the purposes of 
implementing sanitary and phytosanitary measures on consignments on importation, 
consistent with Article 5.10, the results of which form part of the verification process.  
 
4. 
In undertaking an audit, a Party shall take into account relevant guidance of the WTO 
SPS Committee and international standards, guidelines and recommendations.  
 
5. 
Prior to the commencement of an audit, the importing Party and exporting Party 
involved shall discuss the rationale and decide: the objectives and scope of the audit; the 
criteria or requirements against which the exporting Party will be assessed; and the itinerary 
and procedures for conducting the audit.  
 
6. 
The auditing Party shall provide the audited Party the opportunity to comment on the 
findings of the audit and take any such comments into account before the auditing Party 
makes its conclusions and takes any action. The auditing Party shall provide a report setting 
out its conclusions in writing to the audited Party within a reasonable period of time.  
 
5-7 
 
 
7. 
A decision or action taken by the auditing Party as a result of the audit shall be 
supported by objective evidence and data that can be verified, taking into account the 
auditing Party’s knowledge of, relevant experience with, and confidence in, the audited Party. 
This objective evidence and data shall be provided to the audited Party on request.  
 
8. 
The costs incurred by the auditing Party shall be borne by the auditing Party, unless 
the Parties agree otherwise.  
 
9. 
The auditing Party and audited Party shall each ensure that procedures are in place to 
prevent the disclosure of confidential information that is acquired during the audit process.  
 
10. 
With the consent of the other Party, a Party may:  
 
(a) 
share the results and conclusions of its audit and verification procedures and 
checks with non-Parties; or  
 
(b) 
use the results and conclusions of the audit and verification procedures and 
checks of non-Parties. 
 
 
Article 5.10: Import Checks 
 
1. 
The import checks applied to imported animals and animal products, plants and plant 
products, or other related goods shall be based on the risk associated with such importations. 
They shall be carried out without undue delay and with a minimum effect on trade between 
the Parties.  
 
2. 
The basis for determining the nature and frequency of import checks, including the 
factors it considers to determine the risks associated with importations, shall be made 
available on request. The Parties may amend the frequencies, within their responsibilities, as 
appropriate, as a result of experience gained through import checks, or as a result of other 
actions or consultations provided for in this Chapter.  
 
3. 
The importing Party shall notify the other Party in a timely manner of any amendment 
to the frequency of import checks in the event of change in the import risk. On request, an 
explanation regarding amendments shall be given or consultations shall be undertaken.  
 
4. 
The importing Party shall provide to the other Party, on request, information 
regarding the analytical methods, quality controls, sampling procedures and facilities that the 
importing Party uses to test a good. The importing Party shall ensure that any testing is 
conducted using appropriate and validated methods in a facility that operates under a quality 
assurance programme that is consistent with international laboratory standards. The 
importing Party shall maintain physical or electronic documentation regarding the 
identification, collection, sampling, transportation and storage of the test sample, and the 
analytical methods used on the test sample.  
 
5. 
In the event that the import checks reveal non-conformity with the relevant standards 
or requirements, the action taken by the importing Party should be based on an assessment of 
 
5-8 
 
the risk involved. For example, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, an importing 
Party shall not suspend trade between it and another Party on the basis of a single 
consignment. Wherever possible, the importer or their representative shall be given access to 
the consignment and the opportunity to contribute any relevant information to assist the 
importing Party in taking a final decision.  
 
6. 
An importing Party shall ensure that its final decision in response to a finding of non-
conformity with the importing Party’s sanitary or phytosanitary measure, is limited to what is 
reasonable and necessary, and is rationally related to the available science.  
 
7. 
If an importing Party prohibits or restricts the importation of a good of another Party 
on the basis of an adverse result of an import check, the importing Party shall provide a 
notification about the adverse result to at least one of the following: the importer or its agent; 
the exporter; or the manufacturer; as well as the exporting Party if appropriate. 
 
8. 
When the importing Party provides a notification pursuant to paragraph 7, it shall:  
 
(a) 
include:  
 
(i) 
the reason for the prohibition or restriction;  
 
(ii) 
the legal basis or authorisation for the action; and  
 
(iii) 
information on the status of the affected goods and, if appropriate, on 
their disposition;  
 
(b) 
do so in a manner consistent with its laws, regulations and requirements as 
soon as possible and no later than seven working days after the date of the 
decision to prohibit or restrict, unless the good is seized by a customs 
administration; and  
 
(c) 
if the notification has not already been provided through another channel, 
transmit the notification by electronic means, if practicable.  
 
9. 
An importing Party that prohibits or restricts the importation of a good of another 
Party on the basis of an adverse result of an import check shall provide an opportunity for a 
review of the decision and consider any relevant information submitted to assist in the 
review. The review request and information should be submitted to the importing Party 
within a reasonable period of time.  
 
10. 
Unless there is a clearly identified risk in holding that consignment, the consignment 
shall not be destroyed without affording an opportunity to the exporter or their representative 
to take back the consignment.  
 
11. 
If an importing Party determines that there is a significant, sustained or recurring 
pattern of non-conformity with a sanitary or phytosanitary measure, the importing Party shall 
notify the exporting Party of the non-conformity.  
 
 
5-9 
 
12. 
On request, an importing Party shall provide to the exporting Party available 
information on goods from the exporting Party that were found not to conform to a sanitary 
or phytosanitary measure of the importing Party, and, on request, make itself available for 
discussions within a reasonable period of time in order to resolve the matter.  
 
 
Article 5.11: Certification 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that assurances with respect to sanitary or phytosanitary 
requirements may be provided through means other than certificates and that different 
systems may be capable of meeting the same sanitary or phytosanitary objective.  
 
2. 
If an importing Party requires certification for trade in a good, the Party shall ensure 
that the certification requirement is applied, in meeting the Party’s sanitary or phytosanitary 
objectives, only to the extent necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health.  
 
3. 
In applying certification requirements, an importing Party shall take into account 
relevant guidance of the WTO SPS Committee and international standards, guidelines and 
recommendations.  
 
4. 
An importing Party shall limit attestations and information it requires on the 
certificates to essential information that is related to the sanitary or phytosanitary objectives 
of the importing Party.  
 
5. 
An importing Party should provide to another Party, on request, the rationale for any 
attestations or information that the importing Party requires to be included on a certificate.  
 
6. 
The Parties may agree to work cooperatively to develop model certificates to 
accompany specific goods traded between the Parties, including where equivalence has been 
recognised.  
 
7. 
The Parties shall work together cooperatively to facilitate the implementation of 
electronic certification and other technologies to facilitate trade.  
 
8. 
The Parties shall cooperate to facilitate the onward certification of goods exported for 
storage or further processing in each other’s territory prior to re-export.  
 
 
Article 5.12: Transparency 
 
1. 
The Parties shall notify each other in writing, through the contacts points set out in 
Implementing Arrangement 1, of:  
 
(a) 
significant changes in animal or plant health status including the presence and 
evolution of diseases or pests covered by Implementing Arrangement 2, in a 
timely and appropriate manner so as to ensure continued confidence in the 
competence of the Party with respect to the management of any risks of 
transmission to the other Party which may arise as a consequence;  
 
 
5-10 
 
(b) 
scientific findings of importance with respect to food safety, diseases or pests 
which have not been discussed between the Parties without delay; and  
 
(c) 
any additional measures beyond the basic requirements of their respective 
sanitary or phytosanitary measures taken to control or eradicate diseases or 
pests or to protect public health, and any changes in preventive policies, 
including vaccination policies.  
 
2. 
The Parties shall notify proposed sanitary or phytosanitary measures or changes to 
existing measures that may have an effect on the trade of the other Party, including any that 
conform to international standards, guidelines or recommendations, by using the notification 
system in Annex B of the SPS Agreement.  
 
3. 
Unless urgent problems of health protection arise or threaten to arise, or the measure 
is of a trade facilitating nature, a Party shall normally allow a period of at least 60 days, for 
the other Party to provide written comments after it makes a notification under paragraph 2. 
A Party shall consider reasonable requests from the other Party to extend the comment 
period. In cases of serious and immediate concern with respect to human, animal or plant life 
or health, immediate oral notification shall be made to the contact points and written 
confirmation should follow within 24 hours.  
 
4. 
The Party shall make available to the public, for example on a website, the proposed 
sanitary or phytosanitary measure notified under paragraph 3, the legal basis for the measure, 
and the written comments or a summary of the written comments that the Party has received 
from the public on the measure.  
 
5. 
When a Party proposes to adopt a sanitary or phytosanitary measure it shall, on 
request by the other Party, discuss any scientific or trade concerns that the other Party may 
raise regarding the proposed measure and the availability of alternative, less trade-restrictive 
approaches for achieving the measure’s objectives.  
 
6. 
Each Party shall publish notices of final sanitary or phytosanitary measures, for 
example on a website.  
 
7. 
When a Party has serious concerns regarding a risk to human, animal or plant life or 
health, consultations regarding the situation shall, on request, take place as soon as possible, 
and in any case within 10 working days of the request unless the Parties agree otherwise. 
Each Party shall endeavour in such situations to provide all the information necessary to 
avoid a disruption in trade, and to reach a mutually acceptable solution.  
 
8. 
When an exporting Party identifies that an export consignment which may be 
associated with a significant sanitary or phytosanitary risk has been exported, it should, to the 
extent possible, provide information to the importing Party.  
 
 
Article 5.13: Provisional Measures 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to Article 5.12, and in particular Article 5.12(7), any Party may, on 
serious human, animal or plant life or health grounds, adopt provisional measures necessary 
 
5-11 
 
for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health. These measures shall be notified 
within 24 hours to the other Parties and, on request, consultations regarding the situation shall 
be held within 10 working days unless the Parties agree otherwise. The Parties shall take due 
account of any information provided through such consultations.  
 
2. 
If a Party adopts an emergency measure, it shall review the scientific basis of that 
measure within six months and make available the results of the review to the other Party on 
request. If the emergency measure is maintained after the review because the reason for its 
adoption remains, the Party should review the measure periodically. 
 
 
Article 5.14: Exchange of Information 
 
1. 
The Parties, through the contacts points set out in Implementing Arrangement 1, shall 
exchange information relevant to the implementation of this Chapter on a uniform and 
systematic basis, to provide assurance, engender mutual confidence and demonstrate the 
efficacy of the programmes controlled. Where appropriate, achievements of these objectives 
may be enhanced by exchanges of officials.  
 
2. 
The information exchange on changes in the respective sanitary or phytosanitary 
measures, and other relevant information, shall include:  
 
(a) 
opportunity to consider proposals for changes in regulatory standards or 
requirements which may affect this Chapter in advance of their finalisation;  
 
(b) 
briefing on current developments affecting trade; and  
 
(c) 
information on the results of the verification procedures provided for in 
Article 5.9.  
 
3. 
The Parties may provide for the sharing of scientific papers or data to relevant 
scientific forums on sanitary or phytosanitary measures and related matters.  
 
 
Article 5.15: Technical Consultation 
 
1. 
A Party may initiate consultations with the other Party with the aim of resolving 
issues on the application of measures covered in this Chapter or interpretation of the 
provisions of this Chapter.  
 
2. 
When a Party requests consultations, these consultations shall take place as soon as 
practicable.  
 
3. 
Such consultations are without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the Parties 
under Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement).  
 
 
 
5-12 
 
Article 5.16: Cooperation 
 
1.  
The Parties shall explore opportunities for further cooperation and collaboration on 
sanitary or phytosanitary matters of mutual interest consistent with the provisions of this 
Chapter.  
 
2. 
The Parties agree to cooperate to facilitate the implementation of this Chapter, and in 
particular to develop implementing arrangements under this Chapter. 
