 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 8    
 
SERVICES 
 
 
Article 8.1: General Undertaking 
 
The Parties undertake to expand trade in services on a mutually advantageous basis, 
under conditions of transparency and progressive liberalisation through successive reviews, 
with the aim of securing an overall balance of rights and obligations, while recognising the 
rights of both Parties to regulate, and to introduce new regulations, giving due respect to 
national policy objectives including where these reflect local circumstances. 
 
 
Article 8.2: Scope 
 
1.  This Chapter shall apply to measures by Parties affecting trade in services. 
 
2.  New  services,  including  new  financial  services,  shall  be  considered  for  possible 
incorporation into this Agreement at future reviews held in accordance with Article 15.4 
(Review), or at the request of either Party immediately. The supply of services which are not 
technically or technologically feasible when this Agreement comes into force shall, when 
they become feasible, also be considered for possible incorporation at future reviews or at the 
request of either Party immediately. 
 
3.  In financial services, notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a Party 
shall  not  be  prevented  from  taking  measures  for  prudential  reasons,  including  for  the 
protection of investors, depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is 
owed by a financial service supplier or to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial 
system. Where such measures do not conform with the provisions of this Agreement, they 
shall not be used as a means of avoiding that Party’s commitments or obligations hereunder. 
 
4.  Government procurement of services shall be governed by Chapter 10 (Government 
Procurement). 
 
 
Article 8.3: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  measure  means  any  measure  by  a  Party,  whether  in  the  form  of  a  law, 
regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action or any other form; 
 
(b)  supply of a service includes the production, distribution, marketing, sale and 
delivery of a service; 
  
 
 
(c)  measures by Parties affecting trade in services include measures in respect 
of 
 
(i)  the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
 
(ii)  the access to and use of, in connection with the supply of a service, 
services which are required by those Parties to be offered to the public 
generally; 
 
(iii)  the presence, including commercial presence, of persons of a Party for 
the supply of a service in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(d)  commercial  presence  means  any  type  of  business  or  professional 
establishment, including through 
 
(i)  the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a legal person; or 
 
(ii)  the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office; 
 
      within the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service; 
 
(e)  sector of a service means, 
 
(i)  with  reference  to  a  specific  commitment,  one  or  more,  or  all, 
subsectors  of  that  service,  as  specified  in  a  Party’s  schedule  of 
commitments; 
 
(ii)  otherwise,  the  whole  of  that  service  sector,  including  all  of  its 
subsectors; 
 
(f)  service supplier means any person that supplies a service;1 
 
(g)  service consumer means any person that receives or uses a service; 
 
(h)  service of the other Party means a service which is supplied: 
 
(i)  from or in the territory of the other Party, or in the case of maritime 
transport, by a vessel registered under the laws of the other Party, or by 
a person of that other Party which supplies the service through the 
operation of a vessel or its use in whole or in part; or 
 
 
1 Where the service is not supplied directly by a legal person but through other forms of commercial presence 
such as a branch or a representative office, the service supplier (i.e. the legal person) shall, nonetheless, through 
such presence be accorded the treatment provided for service suppliers under the Agreement.  Such treatment 
shall be extended to the presence through which the service is supplied and need not be extended to any other 
parts of the supplier located outside the territory where the service is supplied.  
 
 
(ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence or 
through the presence of natural persons, by a service supplier of the 
other Party; 
 
(i)  person means either a natural person or a legal person; 
 
(j)  natural person of the other Party means a natural person who resides in the 
territory of that other Party or elsewhere and who under the law of that other 
Party: 
 
(i)  is a national of that other Party; or 
 
(ii)  has the right of permanent residence in that other Party, in the case of a 
Party which accords substantially the same treatment to its permanent 
residents as it does to its nationals in respect of measures affecting 
trade in services, provided that that Party is not obligated to accord to 
such permanent residents treatment more favourable than would be 
accorded by the other Party to such permanent residents; 
 
(k)  legal person means any legal entity duly constituted or otherwise organized 
under applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-
owned  or  governmentally-owned,  including  any  corporation,  trust, 
partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship or association; 
 
(l)  monopoly supplier of a service means any person, public or private, which in 
the relevant market of the territory of a Party is authorized or established 
formally or in effect by that Party as the sole supplier of that service; 
 
(m)  financial  service  supplier  means  any  natural  or  legal  person  of  a  Party 
wishing to supply or supplying financial services but does not include a public 
entity. Public entity means:  
 
(i)  a government, central bank or a monetary authority of a Party or an 
entity owned or controlled by a Party that is principally engaged in 
carrying  out  governmental  functions  or  activities  for  governmental 
purposes,  not  including  an  entity  principally  engaged  in  supplying 
financial services on commercial terms; or 
  
(ii)  a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a central 
bank or monetary authority when exercising those functions; 
 
(n)  trade in services means the supply of a service: 
 
(i)  from the territory of one Party into the territory of the other Party 
(cross border mode); 
  
 
 
(ii)  in the territory of one Party to the service consumer of the other Party 
(consumption abroad mode); 
 
(iii)  by a service supplier of one Party, through commercial presence in the 
territory of the other Party (commercial presence mode); 
 
(iv)  by a service supplier of one Party, through presence of natural persons 
of that Party in the territory of the other Party (presence of natural 
persons mode); 
 
(o)  measures by Parties means measures taken by: 
 
(i)  central, regional or local governments and authorities; and 
 
(ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers  delegated  by 
central, regional or local governments or authorities; 
 
(p)  services includes any service in any sector except services supplied in the 
exercise of governmental authority; 
 
(q)  a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means any 
service which is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition 
with one or more services suppliers; 
 
(r)  in  the  case  of  financial  services,  services  supplied  in  the  exercise  of 
governmental authority means the following: 
 
(i)  activities conducted by a central bank or monetary authority or by any 
other public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate policies; 
 
(ii)  activities forming part of a statutory system of social security or public 
retirement plans; and 
 
(iii)  other activities conducted by a public entity for the account or with the 
guarantee or using the financial resources of the Government. 
 
If  a Party  allows  any  of the  activities  referred  to  in  subparagraph  (ii)  or 
subparagraph  (iii)  to  be  conducted  by  its  financial  service  suppliers  in 
competition with a public entity or a financial service supplier, “services” shall 
include such activities; and 
 
(s)  new  financial  services  means  a  service  of  a  financial  nature,  including 
services related to existing and new products or the manner in which a product 
is  delivered,  that  is  not  supplied  by  any  financial  service  supplier  in  the 
territory of one Party but is supplied in the territory of the other Party. 
 
  
 
 
Article 8.4: Market Access 
 
1.  With respect  to market  access through the modes of supply  identified in  Article 
8.3.1(n), each Party shall accord services and service suppliers of the other Party treatment no 
less favourable than that provided for under the terms, limitations and conditions agreed and 
specified in its schedule of commitments.2 
 
2.  In sectors where market access commitments are undertaken, the measures which a 
Party shall not maintain or adopt either on the basis of a regional sub-division or on the basis 
of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in its schedule of commitments, are defined 
as: 
 
(a)  limitations  on  the  number  of  service  suppliers  whether  in  the  form  of 
numerical quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the requirements 
of an economic needs test; 
 
(b)  limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the form of 
numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
(c)  limitations on the total number of service operations or on the total quantity of 
service output expressed in terms of designated numerical units in the form of 
quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;3 
 
(d)  limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed in a 
particular service sector or that a service supplier may employ and who are 
necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific service in the 
form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;  
 
(e)  measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture 
through which a service supplier may supply a service; and 
 
(f)  limitations  on  the  participation  of  foreign  capital  in  terms  of  maximum 
percentage limit on foreign shareholding or the total value of individual or 
aggregate foreign investment. 
 
 
Article 8.5: National Treatment 
 
1.  In the sectors in its schedule of commitments, and subject to any conditions and 
qualifications set out therein, each Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of the 
 
2 If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to the supply of a service through the mode of 
supply referred to in Article 8.3.1(n)(i) and if the cross-border movement of capital is an essential part of the 
service itself, that Party is thereby committed to allow such movement of capital. If a Party undertakes a market-
access commitment in relation to the supply of a service through the mode of supply referred to in Article 
8.3.1(n)(iii), it is thereby committed to allow related transfers of capital into its territory. 
 
3 This subparagraph does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of services.  
 
 
other Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of services, treatment no less 
favourable than that it accords to its own like services and service suppliers. 
 
2.  A Party may meet the requirement in paragraph 1 by according to services and service 
suppliers of the other Party either formally identical treatment or formally different treatment 
to that it accords to its own like services and service suppliers. 
 
3.  Formally  identical  or formally  different  treatment  shall  be  considered  to  be  less 
favourable  if  it  modifies  the  conditions  of  competition  in  favour  of  services  or  service 
suppliers of one Party compared to the like service or service suppliers of the other Party. 
 
4.  Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require 
either Party to compensate for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result from the 
foreign character of the relevant services or service suppliers. 
 
 
Article 8.6: Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to measures affecting trade in 
services not subject to scheduling under Article 8.4 and Article 8.5, including those regarding 
qualifications, standards or licensing matters. Such commitments shall be entered in a Party’s 
schedule of commitments. 
 
 
Article 8.7: Specific Commitments  
 
1.  Each Party has set out an initial schedule of the specific commitments it undertakes in 
accordance with the objective of liberalisation of trade in most services by the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement. 
 
2.  Each Party’s schedule of commitments shall clearly specify: 
 
(a)  the sectors/subsectors in which commitments are undertaken; 
 
(b)  any terms, limitations and conditions on market access; 
 
(c)  any conditions and qualifications on national treatment; and 
 
(d)  any additional commitments. 
 
3.  The schedules of commitments shall be annexed to this Agreement as Annex 8.1 and 
shall form an integral part thereof. 
 
4.  As part of the reviews of this Agreement provided for in Article 15.4 (Review), the 
Parties undertake to review their schedules of commitments and progressively to expand 
these initial commitments as well as expand market access or national treatment between 
them in accordance with the APEC objective of free and open trade in services.   
 
 
5.  Trade in a particular number of services sectors and measures affecting trade in 
services may not be fully liberalised by 1 January 2010. When it appears this shall be the 
case, the Parties agree to meet no later than 1 January 2008 to identify a list of such services 
sectors and measures. This list shall be set out in an exchange of letters between the Parties. 
The Parties shall consult on a mutually acceptable solution for these sectors and measures and 
such consultations shall continue for as long as it takes to achieve that solution.  The solution 
may include agreement on a longer timeframe for liberalisation. This provision shall continue 
to apply after 1 January 2010. 
 
6.  The reviews referred to in paragraph 4 shall also examine limitations on market 
access or national treatment entered in the Parties’ schedules of commitments in accordance 
with the objective identified in that paragraph. 
 
7.  A Party may, upon reasonable notice of at least three months, propose a modification 
of a commitment in its schedule of commitments by written notification to the other Party. In 
proposing such a modification, the Party concerned shall also propose a means by which the 
overall  level  of  commitments  undertaken  by  that  Party  under  the  Agreement  shall  be 
maintained.  On receiving such written notification, the other Party may request consultations 
regarding the proposed modification aimed at ensuring an overall balance of benefits under 
the Agreement is maintained, and if such consultations fail to achieve a satisfactory solution, 
the matter shall be dealt with in accordance with Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
Article 8.8: Domestic Regulation 
 
1.  In sectors where specific commitments are undertaken, each Party shall ensure that all 
measures of general application affecting trade in services are administered in a reasonable, 
objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.  The Parties shall jointly  review the results of the negotiations on disciplines for 
certain regulations, including qualification requirements and procedures, technical standards 
and  licensing  requirements,  pursuant  to  Article  VI.4  of  GATS  with  a  view  to  their 
incorporation into this Agreement. The Parties note that such disciplines aim to ensure that 
such requirements are, inter alia: 
 
(a)  based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and the ability 
to supply the service; 
 
(b)  not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the service; 
 
(c)  in the case of licensing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on the 
supply of the service. 
 
3.  Until the incorporation of disciplines developed pursuant to paragraph 2, in sectors 
where a Party has undertaken specific commitments, and subject to any terms, limitations, 
conditions or qualifications set out therein, a Party shall not apply licensing and qualification  
 
 
requirements and technical standards that nullify or impair such specific commitments in a 
manner which: 
 
(a)  does not comply with the criteria outlined in paragraph 2(a), paragraph 2(b) or 
paragraph 2(c); and  
 
(b)  could not reasonably have been expected of that Party at the time the specific 
commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
4.  Whenever a domestic regulation is prepared, adopted and applied in accordance with 
international standards applied by both Parties, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that it 
complies with the provisions of this Article. 
 
 
Article 8.9: Professional Qualifications and Registration 
 
1.  With a view to ensuring that measures relating to professional4 qualification and 
registration requirements and procedures do not constitute unnecessary barriers to trade in 
services between them, the Parties agree to have identified by the date of entry into force of 
this  Agreement  priority  areas  to  address  with  respect  to  the  recognition  of  professional 
qualifications or registration. In identifying initial priority areas, the Parties agree to focus on 
sectors  where  specific  commitments  have  been  undertaken,  and  subject  to  the  terms, 
limitations, conditions, or qualifications set out therein. Thereafter the Parties shall endeavour 
to consider sectors where no specific commitments have been undertaken. 
 
2.  The Parties agree to facilitate the establishment of dialogue between experts in these 
priority  areas  with  a  view  to  the  achievement  of  early  outcomes  on  recognition  of 
professional qualifications or registration in these areas. 
 
3.  Such  recognition  may  be  achieved  through  recognition  of  regulatory  outcomes, 
recognition of professional qualifications awarded by one Party as a means of complying 
with the regulatory requirements of the other Party (whether accorded unilaterally or by 
 
4Illustrative list of professions: 
 
Professions include, but are not limited to:  
 
Lawyers, legal executives, conveyancers; accountants, auditors, book keepers, tax agents; architects; landscape 
architects;  engineers; doctors;  dentists, dental  technicians; veterinarians and  veterinary  nurses; midwives, 
nurses,  physiotherapists  and  paramedical  personnel,  including  acupuncturists,  chiropractors,  homeopaths, 
medical laboratory scientists and technicians, nutritionists, optometrists and dispensing opticians, pharmacists, 
psychologists, occupational therapists,  radiographers,  speech  therapists; information technology  designers, 
programmers,  analysts  and  technicians;  statisticians,  surveyors,  geologists,  geophysicists,  cartographers; 
management consultants; scientific and technical consultants and researchers; educationalists, at the following 
levels: preschool, primary, secondary, tertiary, adult and other; environmental services consultants; financial 
services consultants, actuaries and economists; hospital and residential health facility managers and consultants; 
airline pilots. 
 
Neither Party is precluded from raising any service supplier’s occupation under this Article.  
    
 
 
mutual arrangement) or by other recognition arrangements which might be agreed between 
the Parties. 
 
4.  The priority areas for further work on professional recognition requirements and the 
recognition outcomes achieved on initial priorities shall be reviewed as part of the reviews of 
this Agreement provided for in Article 15.2 (Meetings of the Joint Commission). 
 
 
Article 8.10: Subsidies 
 
1.  Except as provided for in this Article, subsidies related to trade in services shall not be 
covered under this Chapter. 
 
2.  The Parties shall review the issue of disciplines on subsidies related to  trade in 
services  in  the  context  of  the  reviews  of  this  Agreement  provided  for  in  Article  15.4 
(Review). They shall pay particular attention to any disciplines agreed under Article XV of 
GATS with a view to their incorporation into this Agreement. 
 
3.  The Parties shall consult on appropriate steps in regard to subsidies related to trade in 
services where any subsidies issues arise in bilateral services trade under this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 8.11: Monopolies 
 
In sectors where specific commitments have been made, each Party shall ensure that its 
commitments relating to market access and national treatment pursuant to Articles 8.4 and 
Article 8.5 are not adversely affected by the actions of a monopoly supplier of a service in its 
territory. 
 
 
Article 8.12: Extension of Benefits 
 
A service supplier of a non-Party that is a legal person constituted under the laws of a 
Party shall be entitled to treatment granted under this Chapter provided that it engages in 
substantive business operations in the territory of one or both Parties. 
 
    
 
 
 