 
13-1 
 
CHAPTER 13 
 
REGULATORY COOPERATION 
 
 
Article 13.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
regulatory cooperation activities means efforts between the Parties to enhance regulatory 
cooperation in order to further domestic policy objectives, improve the effectiveness of 
domestic regulation in the face of increased cross-border activity and promote international 
trade and investment, economic growth and employment; and 
 
domestic regulation means a measure of general application adopted by regulatory agencies 
within the Parties and with which compliance is mandatory. 
 
 
Article 13.2: General Provisions 
 
1. 
The Parties affirm the importance of developing regulatory cooperation and capacity 
building between the Parties.  
 
2. 
The Parties acknowledge: 
 
(a) 
principles of good regulatory practice, while originally developed to improve 
the quality of domestic regulation, also result in regulation that facilitates 
trade; 
 
(b) 
the adoption of international models, norms and rules should be considered in 
the development of domestic regulation;  
 
(c) 
regulatory cooperation, both formal and informal, can improve the alignment 
of domestic regulation between key trading partners to remove potential 
barriers caused by regulatory difference and support trade; 
 
(d) 
bodies who develop or implement regulation have a key role to play in 
regulatory cooperation and should consider the range of regulatory 
cooperation activities available to increase the alignment of domestic 
regulation internationally and between key trading partners; 
 
(e) 
the differences in regulatory settings or regulatory implementation between 
countries that create problems for businesses participating in supply or value 
chains do not always fall neatly within the chapter structure of a free trade 
agreement; 
 
(f) 
regulatory cooperation, both formal and informal, can improve the alignment, 
quality and design of future regulation. 
 
13-2 
 
3. 
The Parties therefore recognise the value in creating a mechanism to enable problems 
for business that span multiple Chapters of this Agreement or do not fit well within the scope 
of a particular Chapter of this Agreement and could be addressed by regulatory cooperation 
to be raised for consideration by the Parties. 
 
 
Article 13.3: Contact Points 
 
1. 
Each Party shall establish a contact point which shall have responsibility to consult or 
coordinate with its respective regulatory departments and agencies, as appropriate, on matters 
arising under this Chapter. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall provide each other with the name of the governmental organisation 
that shall be their contact point and the contact details of relevant officials in that 
organisation, including telephone, email and other relevant details. 
 
3. 
The Parties are encouraged to make information beneficial for regulatory cooperation 
available online or otherwise made available through the contact points.  
 
4. 
The Parties shall notify each other promptly of any change of their contact point or 
any amendments to the details of the relevant officials. 
 
 
Article 13.4: Cooperation 
 
1. 
The Parties shall cooperate in order to facilitate the implementation of this Chapter 
and to maximise the benefits arising from it. Regulatory cooperation activities shall take into 
consideration each Party’s needs, and may include: 
 
(a) 
bilateral information exchanges, dialogues or meetings between policy 
officials in agencies responsible for regulatory management of the Parties; 
 
(b) 
bilateral information exchanges, dialogues or meetings between policy 
officials in regulatory agencies or regulators of the Parties; 
 
(c) 
formal cooperation, such as mutual recognition, equivalence or harmonisation; 
and 
 
(d) 
other activities that the Parties may agree to. 
 
2. 
The Parties may undertake regulatory cooperation activities on a voluntary basis. For 
greater certainty, a Party is not required to enter into any particular regulatory cooperation 
activity. 
 
3. 
The Parties acknowledge the importance of regulators having a mandate and powers 
that enable them to cooperate with each other. The Parties, through the contact point, shall 
encourage its regulators to consider cooperating with their counterparts in the other Party to 
reduce barriers to trade and investment. 
 
13-3 
 
4. 
The contact points shall ensure that work on regulatory cooperation under this 
Chapter offers value in addition to initiatives underway in other relevant fora or parts of this 
Agreement and avoids undermining or duplicating such efforts. 
 
5. 
The Parties shall use the English language for regulatory cooperation activities under 
this Chapter to facilitate cooperation between relevant regulatory departments and agencies. 
 
 
Article 13.5: Relationship to Other Chapters 
 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another Chapter of this 
Agreement, the other Chapter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
Article 13.6: Dispute Settlement 
 
No Party shall have recourse to dispute settlement under Chapter 14 (Dispute 
Settlement) for any matter arising under this Chapter. 
