 
15-1 
 
 
CHAPTER 15 
 
INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 15.1: Joint Commission 
 
1. 
The Parties hereby establish the Singapore – New Zealand Closer Economic 
Partnership Joint Commission, composed of government representatives of each Party at the 
level of senior officials. Each Party shall be responsible for the composition of its delegation. 
 
2. 
The Joint Commission shall: 
 
(a) 
consider any matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
review the general functioning of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
consider any proposal to amend this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
supervise the work of all committees established under this Agreement as well 
as other joint activities conducted under this Agreement; and 
 
(e) 
consider any other matter that may affect the operation of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Joint Commission may: 
 
(a) 
establish additional committees and working groups, refer any matter to a 
committee or working group for advice and consider any matter raised by a 
committee or working group established under this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
further the implementation of this Agreement’s objectives through 
implementing arrangements, provided that the negotiation, modification or 
amendment of implementing arrangements shall be consistent with the rights 
and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement and shall not constitute 
amendments to this Agreement under Article 16.15 (Amendments); 
 
(c) 
explore measures for the further expansion of trade and investment between 
the Parties; 
 
(d) 
seek to resolve differences or disputes that may arise regarding the 
interpretation or application of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
seek the expert advice of non-governmental persons or groups on any matter 
falling within its functions where this would help the Joint Commission make 
an informed decision; and 
 
(f) 
take such other action in the exercise of its functions as the Parties may agree. 
 
 
15-2 
 
 
Article 15.2: Meetings of the Joint Commission 
 
1. 
The Joint Commission shall meet within one year of the date of entry into force of the 
Protocol. The Joint Commission’s subsequent meetings shall be held at such frequency as the 
Parties may agree. Ad hoc meetings of the Joint Commission may be convened within 30 
days of the request of either Party, as mutually agreed by the Parties. 
 
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, meetings of the Joint Commission shall be 
held alternately in the territory of each Party and shall be chaired successively by each Party. 
The Party chairing a meeting of the Joint Commission shall provide any necessary 
administrative support for such meeting. 
 
3. 
The Joint Commission shall take decisions on any matter within its functions by 
mutual agreement. 
 
 
Article 15.3: Committee on Biosecurity, Food and Primary Products 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to establish a Committee on Biosecurity, Food and Primary 
Products comprising representatives of the competent authorities of the Parties. The primary 
competent authorities and contact points for the committee shall be set out in an 
implementing arrangement. 
 
2. 
The committee may agree to establish technical working groups consisting of expert-
level representatives of the Parties, which shall identify and address technical and scientific 
issues arising from Chapter 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures). When additional 
expertise is needed, the membership of these groups need not be restricted to representatives 
of the Parties.  
 
3. 
The committee shall consider any issues between the Parties in relation to biosecurity, 
food, and primary products, including any matter related to the implementation of Chapter 5 
(Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures).  
 
4. 
The objectives of the committee are to: 
 
(a) 
facilitate trade, including through seeking to resolve trade access issues where 
they arise, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
provide a forum for improved communication and consultation between the 
Parties so as to avoid unnecessary barriers to trade; and 
 
(c) 
explore areas for further cooperation between the Parties.  
 
5. 
In order to give practical effect to the objectives set out in paragraph 4, the committee 
may, in a manner consistent with other provisions in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
establish, monitor and review work plans; and 
 
15-3 
 
 
(b) 
initiate, develop, adopt, review and modify implementing arrangements in 
relation to any matter, including on technical matters which further clarify the 
provisions of this Agreement, in order to facilitate trade between the Parties.  
 
6. 
The implementing arrangements referred to in paragraph 5 initially include the 
following: 
 
(a) 
Arrangement between New Zealand and Singapore on Competent Authorities 
and Contact Points;  
 
(b) 
Arrangement between New Zealand and Singapore on the Recognition of the 
Equivalence of Foreign Disease and Pest Control and Zoning Measures as 
They Apply to Trade; and 
 
(c) 
Arrangement between New Zealand and Singapore on Recognition of 
Measures and Status. 
 
7. 
Implementing arrangements developed or modified under paragraph 5 shall 
commence within three months of the date on which those arrangements or modifications are 
agreed by the committee unless otherwise mutually determined. 
 
8. 
The committee shall meet within one year of the entry into force of the Protocol and 
annually thereafter or as determined by the committee. The committee may meet in person, 
by teleconference, video conference, or by any other means determined by the committee. 
The committee may also consider matters through correspondence.  
 
9. 
At the first meeting of the committee, the committee shall establish its rules of 
procedure. 
 
10. 
The committee shall report regularly to the Joint Commission on its activities.  
 
 
Article 15.4: Review 
 
 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, the Parties shall undertake a general review of 
the Agreement with a view to furthering its objectives within five years of the entry into force 
of the Protocol and shall conduct subsequent general reviews at least every three years 
thereafter. 
 
 
