 
 
CHAPTER 14 
 
DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
Article 14.1: Scope 
 
1.  The rules and procedures of this Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance or 
settlement of disputes between the Parties concerning their rights and obligations under this 
Agreement, but are without prejudice to the rights of the Parties to have recourse to dispute 
settlement procedures available under other agreements to which they are party.  
 
2.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Parties agree that the provisions of this Agreement 
shall  be  interpreted  in  accordance  with  the  general  principles  of  international  law  and 
consistently with the objectives set out in Article 1.1 (Objectives). 
 
 
Article 14.2: Consultations 
 
1.  Each  Party  shall  accord  adequate  opportunity  for  consultations  regarding  any 
representations  made  by  the  other  Party  with  respect  to  any  matter  affecting  the 
implementation, interpretation or application of this Agreement. Any differences shall, as far 
as possible, be settled by consultation between the Parties. 
 
2.  Any Party which considers that any benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly under 
this Agreement is being nullified or impaired, or that the attainment of any objective of this 
Agreement  is  being  impeded  as  a  result  of  failure  of  the  other  Party  to  carry  out  its 
obligations under this Agreement or the existence of any other situation may, with a view to 
achieving satisfactory settlement of the matter, make representations or proposals to the other 
Party, which shall give due consideration to the representations or proposals made to it. 
 
3.  If a request for consultation is made, the Party to which the request is made shall reply 
to the request within seven days after the date of its receipt and shall enter into consultations 
within a period of no more than 30 days after the date of receipt of the request, with a view to 
reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. 
 
4.  The Parties shall make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of any 
matter through consultations. To this end, the Parties shall: 
 
(a)  provide sufficient information to enable a full examination of how the measure 
might affect the operation of the Agreement; and 
 
(b)  treat any confidential or proprietary information exchanged in the course of 
consultations on the same basis as the Party providing the information. 
 
   
14-1 
  
 
Article 14.3: Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation 
 
1.  The Parties may at any time agree to good offices, conciliation or mediation. They 
may begin at any time and be terminated at any time. 
 
2.  If  the  Parties  agree,  procedures  for  good  offices,  conciliation  or  mediation  may 
continue while the dispute proceeds for resolution before an arbitral tribunal appointed under 
Article 14.4. 
 
 
Article 14.4: Appointment of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  If the consultations fail to settle a dispute within 60 days after the date of receipt of 
the request for consultations, the Party which made the request for consultations may make a 
written request to the other Party to appoint an arbitral tribunal. The request shall include a 
statement of the claim and the grounds on which it is based. 
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three members. Each Party shall appoint an 
arbitrator within 30 days of the receipt of the request, and the two arbitrators appointed shall 
designate by common agreement the third arbitrator, who shall chair the tribunal. The latter 
shall not be a national of either of the Parties, nor have his or her usual place of residence in 
the territory of one of the Parties, nor be employed by either of them, nor have dealt with the 
case in any capacity.  
 
3.  If the chair of the tribunal has not been designated within 30 days of the appointment 
of the second arbitrator, the Director-General of the WTO shall at the request of either Party 
appoint the chair of the arbitral tribunal within a further one month’s period. 
 
4.  If one of the Parties does not appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the receipt of the 
request, the other Party may inform the Director-General of the WTO who shall appoint the 
chair of the arbitral tribunal within a further 30 days and the chair shall, upon appointment, 
request the Party which has not appointed an arbitrator to do so within 14 days. If after such 
period that Party has still not appointed an arbitrator, the chair shall inform the Director-
General of the WTO who shall make this appointment within a further 30 days. 
 
5.  For the purposes of paragraphs 1 to 4, any person appointed as a member or chair of 
the arbitral tribunal by either Party or by the Director-General of the WTO must be a well-
qualified governmental or non-governmental individual, and can include persons who have 
served on or presented a case to a WTO panel, served in the Secretariat of the WTO, taught 
or published on international trade law or policy, or served as a senior trade policy official of 
a Member of the WTO. The Parties recognise that the arbitral tribunal should be composed of 
individuals of relevant technical or legal expertise.  
   
14-2 
  
 
Article 14.5: Functions of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  The function of an arbitral tribunal is to make an objective assessment of the dispute 
before it, including an examination of the facts of the case and the applicability of and 
conformity with this Agreement, and make such other findings and rulings necessary for the 
resolution of the dispute referred to it as it thinks fit. The findings and rulings of the arbitral 
tribunal shall be binding on the Parties. 
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal shall, apart from the matters set out in Article 14.6, regulate its 
own procedures in relation to the rights of Parties to be heard and its deliberations. 
 
 
Article 14.6: Proceedings of Arbitral Tribunals 
 
1.  An arbitral tribunal shall meet in closed session. The Parties shall be present at the 
meetings only when invited by the arbitral tribunal to appear before it. The reports of the 
arbitral  tribunal shall be drafted without the presence of the Parties in the light  of the 
information provided and the statements made. 
 
2.  The arbitral tribunal shall have the right to seek information and technical advice from 
any individual or body which it deems appropriate. A Party shall respond promptly and fully 
to any request by an arbitral tribunal for such information as the arbitral tribunal considers 
necessary and appropriate. 
 
3.  The deliberations of an arbitral tribunal and the documents submitted to it shall be 
kept confidential. Nothing in this Article shall preclude a Party from disclosing statements of 
its own positions and its initial submission to the public. A Party shall treat as confidential 
information  submitted  by  another  Party  to  the  arbitral  tribunal  which  that  Party  has 
designated  as  confidential.  Where  a  Party  submits  a  confidential  version  of  its  written 
submissions to the arbitral tribunal, it shall also, upon request of a Party, provide a non-
confidential summary of the information contained in its submissions that could be disclosed 
to the public. 
 
4.  Before the first substantive meeting of the arbitral tribunal with the Parties, the Parties 
shall transmit to the arbitral tribunal written submissions in which they present the facts of 
their case and their arguments. 
 
5.  At its first substantive meeting with the Parties, the arbitral tribunal shall ask the Party 
which has brought the complaint to present its case. Subsequently, and still at the same 
meeting, the Party against which the complaint has been brought shall be asked to present its 
point of view. 
 
6.  Formal rebuttals shall be made at a second substantive meeting of the arbitral tribunal. 
The Party complained against shall have the right to take the floor first to be followed by the 
complaining Party. The Parties shall submit, prior to the meeting, written rebuttals to the 
arbitral tribunal. 
 
14-3 
  
 
7.  The arbitral tribunal may at any time put questions to the Parties and ask them for 
explanations either in the course of a meeting with the Parties or in writing. The Parties shall 
make available to the arbitral tribunal a written version of their oral statements. 
 
8.  In  the  interests  of  full  transparency,  the  presentations,  rebuttals  and  statements 
referred to in paragraphs 4 to 7 shall be made in the presence of the Parties. Moreover, each 
Party’s written submissions, including any comments on the descriptive part of the report and 
responses to questions put by the arbitral tribunal, shall be made available to the other Party. 
 
9.  The arbitral tribunal shall release to the Parties its findings and rulings in a report on 
the dispute referred to it within 60 days of its formation. In exceptional cases, the arbitral 
tribunal may take an additional 10 days to release its report containing its findings  and 
rulings. Within this time period, the arbitral tribunal shall accord adequate opportunity to the 
Parties to review the report before its release. 
 
 
Article 14.7: Termination of Proceedings 
 
The Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings of an arbitral tribunal in the event 
that a mutually satisfactory solution to the dispute has been found.  
 
 
Article 14.8: Implementation 
 
1.  The Party concerned shall comply with the arbitral tribunal’s rulings or findings 
within a reasonable time period. The reasonable period of time shall be mutually determined 
by the Parties and shall not exceed 12 months from the date of the arbitral tribunal’s report, 
unless the Party concerned advises the other Party that primary legislation shall be required, 
in which case the reasonable period of time shall not exceed 15 months from such date. 
 
2.  If the Party concerned fails to bring the measure found to be inconsistent with the 
Agreement into compliance therewith or otherwise comply with the arbitral tribunal’s report 
within the reasonable period of time, that Party shall, if so requested, and not later than the 
expiry of the reasonable period of time, enter into negotiations with the Party having invoked 
the dispute settlement procedures with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory resolution. 
 
3.  If no mutually satisfactory resolution has been reached within 20 days, the Party 
which has invoked the dispute settlement procedures may suspend the application of benefits 
of equivalent effect until such time as the Parties have reached agreement on a resolution of 
the dispute. 
 
4.  In considering what benefits to suspend pursuant to paragraph 3: 
 
(a)  the Party which has invoked the dispute settlement procedures should first 
seek to suspend benefits in the same sector or sectors as that affected by the 
measure or other matter that the arbitral tribunal has found to be inconsistent 
with this Agreement or to have caused nullification or impairment; and 
14-4 
  
 
(b)  the Party which has invoked the dispute settlement procedures may suspend 
benefits in other sectors if it considers that it is not practicable or effective to 
suspend benefits in the same sector. 
 
 
Article 14.9: Expenses 
 
Unless the arbitral tribunal decides otherwise because of the particular circumstance of 
the case, the expenses of the tribunal, including the remuneration of its members, shall be 
borne by the Parties in equal shares. 
 
14-5 
 