6-1 
 
CHAPTER 6 
 
TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
 
 
Article 6.1: Definitions 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Chapter, unless a more specific meaning is given in an Annex: 
 
equivalence of technical regulations means that one Party accepts that the technical 
regulations of the other Party fulfil the legitimate objectives of its own regulations; 
 
regulatory authority means the authority that is responsible for preparing or adopting 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures applicable to goods; 
 
TBT Agreement means the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, set out in Annex 1A 
to the WTO Agreement; and 
 
technical regulations also include standards that regulatory authorities recognise as meeting 
the mandatory requirements related to performance based regulation. 
 
2. 
The definitions in Annex I of the TBT Agreement are incorporated into this Chapter 
and shall form part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 6.2: Objectives 
 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to increase and facilitate trade through furthering 
the implementation of the TBT Agreement and building on the work of APEC on standards 
and conformance. Wherever possible, the Parties shall aim to reduce compliance costs by: 
 
(a) 
eliminating unnecessary technical barriers to trade in goods between the 
Parties; 
 
(b) 
enhancing cooperation among the Parties’ regulatory agencies responsible for 
standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures 
applicable to goods; and 
 
(c) 
providing a framework to address the impact of technical barriers to trade. 
 
 
Article 6.3: Scope 
 
1. 
This Chapter applies to all standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures that may, directly or indirectly, affect the trade in goods between the Parties, 
except as provided in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3. 
 
6-2 
 
2. 
This Chapter shall not apply to technical specifications prepared by governmental 
entities for production or consumption requirements of such entities which are covered by 
Chapter 10 (Government Procurement). 
 
3. 
This Chapter shall not apply to sanitary and phytosanitary measures which are 
covered by Chapter 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures). 
 
4. 
For greater certainty, nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from adopting or 
maintaining technical regulations, standards or conformity assessment procedures in 
accordance with its rights and obligations under this Agreement, the TBT Agreement and any 
other relevant international agreement. 
 
 
Article 6.4: Incorporation of Certain Parts of the TBT Agreement 
 
 
The following provisions of the TBT Agreement are incorporated into and made part 
of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis: 
 
(a) 
Article 2.1, Article 2.2, Article 2.4, Article 2.5, Article 2.9, Article 2.10, 
Article 2.11, Article 2.12; 
 
(b) 
Article 5.1, Article 5.2, Article 5.3, Article 5.4, Article 5.6, Article 5.7, 
Article 5.8, Article 5.9; and 
 
(c) 
Paragraph D, Paragraph E and Paragraph F of Annex 3. 
 
 
Article 6.5: Origin 
 
 
This Chapter applies to all goods traded between the Parties, regardless of the origin 
of those goods. 
 
 
Article 6.6: Trade Facilitation 
 
1. 
The Parties shall intensify their joint work in the field of standards, technical 
regulations, and conformity assessment procedures with a view to facilitating access to each 
other’s market. In particular, the Parties shall seek to identify initiatives between them that 
are appropriate for particular issues or sectors. Such initiatives may include cooperation on 
regulatory issues, such as harmonisation or equivalence of technical regulations and standards, 
alignment with international standards, reliance on a supplier's declaration of conformity, and 
use of accreditation to qualify conformity assessment bodies, as well as cooperation through 
mutual recognition. 
 
2. 
Initiatives identified by the Parties shall be focused on the promotion of the use of 
international standards, transparency, exchange of information and reducing compliance costs. 
 
6-3 
 
Article 6.7: International Standards, Guides and Recommendations 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise the important role that international standards, guides and 
recommendations can play in supporting greater regulatory alignment, good regulatory 
practice and reducing unnecessary barriers to trade.  
 
2. 
In this respect, and further to Article 2.4, Article 5.4 and Annex 3 of the TBT 
Agreement, to determine whether there is an international standard, guide or recommendation 
within the meaning of Article 2, Article 5 and Annex 3 of the TBT Agreement, each Party 
shall apply the Decisions and Recommendations adopted by the WTO Committee on 
Technical Barriers to Trade Since 1 January 1995 (G/TBT/1/Rev.12), as may be revised, 
issued by the WTO Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade.  
 
3. 
The Parties shall cooperate with each other, when feasible and appropriate, to ensure 
that international standards, guides and recommendations that are likely to become a basis for 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures do not create unnecessary 
obstacles to international trade.  
 
 
Article 6.8: Equivalency of Technical Regulations 
 
1. 
Each Party shall give positive consideration to accepting as equivalent, technical 
regulations of the other Party, even if these regulations differ from its own, provided that 
those technical regulations produce outcomes that are equivalent to those produced by its 
own technical regulations in meeting its legitimate objectives and achieving the same level of 
protection. 
 
2. 
A Party shall, on the request of the other Party, explain the reasons why it has not 
accepted a technical regulation of the other Party as equivalent. 
 
 
Article 6.9: Mutual Recognition of Equivalence of Standards 
 
1. 
If regulatory compliance is required and if there is equivalence of outcomes, each 
Party shall give positive consideration to accepting the standards of the other Party as 
equivalent to its own corresponding standards. 
 
2. 
A Party shall, on the request of the other Party, explain the reasons why it has not 
accepted a standard of the other Party as equivalent. 
 
 
Article 6.10: Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1. 
The Parties recognise that a broad range of mechanisms exist to facilitate the 
acceptance of conformity assessment results, including: 
 
(a) 
the importing Party’s reliance on a supplier’s declaration of conformity; 
6-4 
 
(b) 
unilateral recognition by one Party of the results of conformity assessments 
performed in the other Party’s territory; 
 
(c) 
cooperative arrangements among conformity assessment bodies from each 
other’s territory; 
 
(d) 
mutual recognition of conformity assessment procedures conducted by bodies 
located in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(e) 
accreditation procedures for qualifying conformity assessment bodies; 
 
(f) 
government designation of conformity assessment bodies; and 
 
(g) 
devising solutions to increase administrative efficiency, that avoid duplication 
and are cost effective. 
 
2. 
The Parties shall intensify their exchange of information on the range of mechanisms 
to facilitate the acceptance of conformity assessment results. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall seek to ensure that conformity assessment procedures applied 
between them facilitate trade by ensuring that they are no more restrictive than is necessary to 
provide an importing Party with confidence that products conform with the applicable 
technical regulations, taking into account the risk that non-conformity would create. 
 
4. 
Before accepting the results of a conformity assessment procedure, and to enhance 
confidence in the continued reliability of each other’s conformity assessment results, the 
Parties may consult on matters such as the technical competence of the conformity 
assessment bodies involved, as appropriate. 
 
5. 
A Party shall, on the request of the other Party, explain its reasons for not accepting 
the results of a conformity assessment procedure performed in the territory of the other Party. 
 
6. 
Each Party shall accredit, approve, license, or otherwise recognise conformity 
assessment bodies in the territory of the other Party on terms no less favourable than those it 
accords to conformity assessment bodies in its territory. If a Party accredits, approves, 
licenses or otherwise recognises a body assessing conformity with a particular technical 
regulation or standard in its territory and it refuses to accredit, approve, license, or otherwise 
recognise a body assessing conformity with that technical regulation or standard in the 
territory of the other Party, it shall, on request, explain the reasons for its refusal. 
 
7. 
If a Party declines a request from the other Party to enter into negotiations on 
facilitating recognition in its territory of the results of conformity assessment procedures 
conducted by bodies in the territory of the other Party, it shall, on request, explain its reasons. 
 
8. 
Further to Article 9.1 of the TBT Agreement, a Party shall consider adopting 
measures to approve conformity assessment bodies that have accreditation for the technical 
regulations or standards of the importing Party, by an accreditation body that is a signatory to 
6-5 
 
an international or regional mutual recognition arrangement. The Parties recognise that these 
arrangements can address the key considerations in approving conformity assessment bodies, 
including technical competence, independence, and the avoidance of conflicts of interest. 
 
9. 
Further to Article 5.2.5 of the TBT Agreement any conformity assessment fees 
imposed by a Party shall be limited to the approximate cost of services rendered. 
 
 
Article 6.11: Transparency 
 
1. 
In order to enhance the opportunity for persons to provide meaningful comments, a 
Party publishing a notice under Article 2.9 or Article 5.6 of the TBT Agreement shall: 
 
(a) 
include in the notice a statement describing the objective of the proposal and 
the rationale for the approach the Party is proposing; and 
 
(b) 
transmit the proposal electronically to the other Party through the enquiry 
point established under Article 10 of the TBT Agreement at the same time as it 
notifies WTO members of the proposal pursuant to the TBT Agreement. 
 
2. 
Each Party should allow at least 60 days from the transmission under paragraph 1(b) 
for persons and the other Party to make comments in writing on the proposal. 
 
3. 
When a Party makes a notification under Article 2.10 or Article 5.7 of the TBT 
Agreement, it shall at the same time transmit the notification to the other Party, electronically, 
through the enquiry point referred to in paragraph 1(b). 
 
 
Article 6.12: Confidentiality 
 
1. 
A Party shall not be required to disclose confidential proprietary information to the 
other Party except where such disclosure would be necessary for the other Party to 
demonstrate the technical competence of its designated conformity assessment bodies and 
conformity with the relevant stipulated requirements.  
 
2. 
A Party shall, in accordance with its applicable laws and regulations, protect the 
confidentiality of any proprietary information disclosed to it in connection with conformity 
assessment activities or designation procedures. 
 
 
Article 6.13: Contact Points 
 
1. 
Each Party shall designate and notify a contact point for matters arising under this 
Chapter.  
 
2. 
A Party shall promptly notify the other Parties of any change of its contact point or 
the details of the relevant officials.  
6-6 
 
3. 
The responsibilities of each contact point shall include:  
 
(a) 
communicating with the other Party’s contact points, including facilitating 
discussions, requests and the timely exchange of information on matters 
arising under this Chapter;  
 
(b) 
communicating with and coordinating the involvement of relevant government 
agencies, including regulatory authorities, in its territory on relevant matters 
pertaining to this Chapter; and 
 
(c) 
consulting and if appropriate, coordinating with interested persons in its 
territory on relevant matters pertaining to this Chapter.  
 
 
Article 6.14: Technical Consultations 
 
1. 
A Party may initiate technical consultations with the other Party through their 
respective contact points with the aim of resolving any matter arising under this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Unless the Parties mutually determine otherwise, the Parties shall hold technical 
consultations within a reasonable period of time of the request for technical consultations by 
email, teleconference, video-conference, or through any other means, as mutually determined 
by the Parties. The Parties shall, from time to time, stipulate in writing the length of time that 
they consider to be reasonable. 
 
3. 
Such technical consultations are without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the 
Parties under Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement). 
 
 
Article 6.15: Annexes and Implementing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The scope of the Annexes to this Chapter are set out in each respective Annex. 
 
2. 
The rights and obligations set out in each Annex to this Chapter shall apply only with 
respect to the sector specified in that Annex, and shall not affect any Party’s rights or 
obligations under any other Annex. 
 
3. 
The contact points shall, as and when required: 
 
(a) 
review the implementation of the Annexes, with a view to strengthening or 
improving them and if appropriate, make recommendations to enhance 
alignment of the Parties’ respective technical regulations, standards and 
conformity assessment procedures in the sectors covered by the Annexes; and 
 
(b) 
consider whether the development of Annexes concerning other sectors would 
further the objectives of this Chapter or the Agreement and decide whether to 
6-7 
 
recommend to the Joint Commission that the Parties initiate negotiations to 
conclude Annexes covering those sectors. 
 
4. 
The Parties may develop implementing arrangements setting out new areas of 
cooperation in respect of particular sectors with a view to removing or reducing regulatory 
barriers to the movement of goods, and facilitating trade, between the Parties, or details for 
the implementation of Annexes to this Chapter. 
 
5. 
When a Party takes a measure to manage an immediate risk that it considers goods 
covered by an Annex or implementing arrangement to this Chapter may pose to health, safety 
or the environment, it shall notify the measure and the reasons for the imposition of the 
measure to the other Party, within the time limit as specified in the applicable Annex or 
implementing arrangement 
