  
10-1 
 
CHAPTER 10 
 
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
 
 
Article 10.1: Establishment of a Single Market 
 
1. 
The Parties agree to establish a single New Zealand/Singapore government 
procurement market, in order to maximise competitive opportunities for New 
Zealand/Singapore suppliers, and reduce costs of doing business for both government and 
industry. 
 
2. 
This shall be achieved by the Parties: 
 
(a) 
committing to implement the APEC Non-Binding Principles on Government 
Procurement relating to transparency, value for money, open and effective 
competition, fair dealing, accountability and due process, and non-
discrimination; 
 
(b) 
ensuring the opportunity exists for their suppliers to compete on an equal and 
transparent basis for government contracts;  
 
(c) 
ensuring the non-application against their suppliers of preferential schemes 
and other forms of discrimination based on the place of origin of goods and 
services unless such schemes or forms of discrimination fall within Article 
16.14 (Preferences Under Other Agreements); 
 
(d) 
providing a mechanism for cooperation to work towards achieving the greatest 
possible consistency in contractual, technical and performance standards and 
specifications, and simplicity and consistency in the application of 
procurement policies, practices and procedures.  
 
 
Article 10.2: Scope 
 
1. 
This Chapter applies to government procurement valued at above Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR) 50,000. The Parties shall consult and agree on a common basis for expressing 
this value threshold in their respective national currency equivalents as at the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement, and as at the date of reviews of the operation of this Agreement 
held in accordance with Article 15.4 (Review). 
 
2. 
Government procurement of services is subject to a Party’s schedule of commitments 
in Annex 8.1 (Services Commitments) and the terms, limitations, conditions or qualifications 
set out therein.1 
                                                 
1 At the request of New Zealand, Singapore confirms that there shall be no discrimination in terms of 
government procurement of services in favour of corporate entities where the Singapore Government is the 
majority shareholder or has a special share as defined in Annex 8.1 (Services Commitments). 
 
 
 
10-2 
 
3. 
Where government bodies require enterprises not covered under this Chapter to award 
contracts in accordance with particular requirements, Article 10.4 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to such requirements. 
 
 
Article 10.3: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
designated bodies means bodies designated in each of the Parties to investigate complaints 
about non-compliance with this Chapter; they may include an agency or office responsible to 
a Party, or a position located within such agency or office. The designated body for 
Singapore is the Ministry of Finance and the designated body for New Zealand is the 
Ministry of Economic Development; 
 
goods and services means but is not limited to goods alone, services alone or goods and 
related services. Computer software is defined as “goods” for this purpose. Related services 
means but is not limited to services provided in conjunction with the supply of goods or 
construction activities (such as architectural design, engineering, project design, project 
management and related consultancy services); 
 
Ministers responsible for procurement means Ministers with portfolio responsibility for 
procurement policy where such direct responsibility exists. Otherwise the definition shall 
mean Ministers with portfolio responsibility for this Chapter; 
 
procurement means but is not limited to purchase, hire, lease, rental, exchange and 
competitive tendering and contracting (outsourcing) arrangements; 
 
government procurement means procurement by government bodies, that is departments 
and other bodies, including statutory authorities, which are controlled by the Parties and 
excludes procurement by any body corporate or other legal entity that has the power to 
contract, except where the Parties exercise their discretion to determine that this Chapter shall 
apply. In the case of regional or local governments or authorities, and in the case of 
procurement of services by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by 
central, regional or local governments or authorities, the Parties shall use their best 
endeavours to encourage wider application of this Chapter, consistent with good commercial 
practice, to procurement by all such governments, authorities and bodies; 
 
New Zealand/Singapore suppliers means service suppliers (determined in accordance with 
Chapter 8 (Services)) or suppliers of goods originating in New Zealand or Singapore. 
Whether a good is originating in New Zealand or Singapore shall be determined in 
accordance with Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin); 
 
value for money means the best available outcome for money spent in terms of the procuring 
agency's needs. The test of value for money requires relevant comparison of the whole of life 
costs and benefits relating directly to the procurement. “Whole of life costs and benefits” 
 
 
 
10-3 
 
include fitness for purpose and other considerations of quality, performance, price, delivery, 
accessories and consumables, service support and disposal.  
 
 
Article 10.4: General Principles 
 
Except as provided otherwise in this Chapter, the Parties shall: 
 
(a) 
at all times conduct their procurement activities in accordance with the spirit 
and intent of this Chapter; 
 
(b) 
ensure that all government bodies within their territories comply with this 
Chapter; 
 
(c) 
provide to services, goods and suppliers of the other Party equal opportunity 
and treatment no less favourable than that accorded to their own domestic 
services, goods and suppliers;  
 
(d) 
promote opportunities for their suppliers to compete for government business 
on the basis of value for money and avoid purchasing practices which 
discriminate or are otherwise biased against, or have the effect of denying 
equal access or opportunity to, their services, goods and suppliers, while 
conforming with any commitments of the Parties under international 
government procurement agreements; 
 
(e) 
use value for money as the primary determinant in all procurement decisions; 
and 
 
(f) 
achieve maximum practicable simplicity and consistency in the application of 
procurement policies, practices and procedures. 
 
 
Article 10.5: Valuation of Contracts 
 
1. 
The following provisions shall apply in determining the value of contracts for the 
purposes of implementing this Chapter. 
 
2. 
Valuation shall take into account all forms of remuneration, including any premiums, 
fees, commissions and interest receivable. 
 
3. 
The selection of a valuation method by a government body shall not be made, nor 
shall any procurement requirement be divided, with the intention of avoiding the application 
of this Chapter. 
 
4. 
In cases where an intended procurement specifies the need for option clauses, the 
basis for valuation shall be the total value of the maximum permissible procurement, 
inclusive of optional purchases. 
 
 
 
10-4 
 
Article 10.6: Rules of Origin 
 
A Party shall not apply rules of origin to goods or services imported or supplied from 
the other Party, for the purposes of government procurement, which are different from the 
rules of origin applied in the normal course of trade and at the time of the transaction in 
question to imports or supplies of the same goods or services from that other Party. 
 
 
Article 10.7: Procurement Procedures 
 
1. 
Each Party shall ensure that the procurement procedures, including tendering and 
supplier invitation, registration of interest, prequalification, selection, negotiation and 
contract award procedures, of its government bodies are applied in a manner consistent with 
this Chapter, the APEC Non-Binding Principles on Government Procurement, and good 
commercial practice. 
 
2. 
In cases of procurement by open call for tender, invitations to tender shall be 
advertised in a publicly accessible medium; and in cases of procurement by selective 
invitation to tender, prior calls to prequalify or register interest shall be advertised in a 
publicly accessible medium. 
 
3. 
The Parties shall ensure that government bodies make readily available on request by 
New Zealand/Singapore suppliers information on contract awards, including the name of the 
supplier, the goods or services supplied and value of the contract award, unless the release of 
such information would impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public 
interest or would prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, 
public or private, or might prejudice fair competition between suppliers. 
 
4. 
Government bodies shall, on request from an unsuccessful supplier which participated 
in the relevant tender, promptly provide pertinent information concerning reasons for the 
rejection of its tender, unless the release of such information would impede law enforcement 
or otherwise be contrary to the public interest or would prejudice the legitimate commercial 
interest of particular enterprises, public or private, or might prejudice fair competition 
between suppliers. 
 
5. 
Each Party shall also take appropriate steps to enhance transparency at all stages of 
their procurement procedures, and endeavour to provide the information specified in 
paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 for all government bodies from a single point of access through 
a public medium, such as the internet.  
 
Article 10.8: Prohibition of Offsets 
 
1. 
Government bodies shall not, in the qualification and selection of suppliers, goods and 
services, or in the evaluation of tenders and award of contracts, impose, seek or consider 
offsets in relation to government procurement from New Zealand or Singapore suppliers.  
 
 
 
 
10-5 
 
2. 
Offsets in relation to government procurement means measures used to encourage 
local development or improve the balance of payments accounts by requiring domestic 
content, licensing of technology, investment, counter-trade or similar requirements. 
 
 
Article 10.9: Disputes Between a Supplier and the Procuring Government Body 
 
1. 
In the event of a complaint by a supplier that there has been a breach of this Chapter, 
each Party shall encourage the supplier to seek resolution of its complaint in consultation 
with the procuring government body. In such instances the procuring government body shall 
accord timely and impartial consideration to any such complaint. 
 
2. 
Failing resolution through consultation between the supplier and the procuring 
government body, the complainant should seek the assistance of the designated body of the 
Party in whose territory the complainant is located. A complaint made informally may be 
processed informally if this is deemed appropriate by the designated body and the 
complainant. 
 
3. 
Failing resolution, the designated body receiving the complaint shall formally raise it 
with the designated body of the other Party for investigation of any alleged breach of this 
Chapter and for a report by it in writing. The Parties agree to provide details and 
documentation to permit a full investigation of complaints. Confidentiality of all information 
shall be maintained. 
 
4. 
If the response is satisfactory to the designated body which received the original 
complaint, then the complaint shall lapse. 
 
5. 
If satisfactory resolution is not achieved, the designated body which received the 
original complaint may then refer the matter to the Minister responsible for procurement in 
the other Party for further investigation and decision. 
 
6. 
In the event that a complaint cannot be resolved through the steps set out above within 
30 days of the designated body that received the original complaint formally raising it with 
the designated body of the other Party, the provisions of Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement) 
shall apply. A Party shall be entitled by subrogation to exercise the rights and assert the 
claims of its own supplier against the other Party.  The subrogated rights or claims shall not 
be greater than the original rights or claims of that supplier. 
 
 
Article 10.10: Exemptions 
 
1. 
It is recognised by the Parties that, under certain circumstances, there may be a need 
for exemption from some of the requirements of this Chapter for certain government bodies, 
for certain classes of procurement, and for procurement undertaken in accordance with 
specific government policies. 
 
 
 
 
10-6 
 
2. 
Exemptions from some of the requirements of this Chapter may be sought by either 
Party for government bodies which meet the following criteria subject to consultation and 
agreement with the other Party:  
 
(a) 
joint bodies with any other State or separate customs territory which is not 
party to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
bodies funded primarily from specific special levies on particular industries, or 
by community groups or from special grants or public donations. 
 
It is not intended, however, that any government body shall be granted full exemption from 
the requirements of this Chapter. When considering applications for partial exemptions, the 
Parties shall exercise their authority with due diligence in accordance with the objectives of 
this Chapter. 
 
3. 
The following classes of procurement are exempt from the application of this Chapter: 
 
(a) 
internal procurement by a government from its own bodies where no other 
supplier has been asked to tender. If, however, tenders are called or invited, 
the provisions of this Chapter shall apply whether or not a government body 
submits a tender; 
 
(b) 
the procurement of proprietary items required to ensure machinery or 
equipment integrity, but only as they may relate to biased specifications. 
Where such items are available from a number of sources or tenders are called 
or invited, all provisions of this Chapter apply other than as they relate to 
biased specifications; 
 
(c) 
the urgent procurement of goods and related services in the event of 
emergencies, such as natural disasters, or to meet the urgent requirements of 
United Nations peacekeeping or humanitarian operations; 
 
(d) 
procurement of proprietary equipment of a work, health or safety nature 
specified in industrial agreements but only as they may relate to biased 
specifications. Where such items are available from a number of sources or 
tenders are called or invited, all provisions of this Chapter apply other than as 
they relate to biased specifications; 
 
(e) 
defence procurement of a strategic nature and other procurement where 
national security is a consideration; and 
 
(f) 
procurement under development assistance programmes. 
 
4. 
Either Party may seek to have additional classes of procurement exempted from this 
Chapter. Such exemptions shall be permitted only with the agreement of the other Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
10-7 
 
Article 10.11: Administration and Review 
1. 
The designated bodies shall report jointly to the Ministers responsible for 
procurement on the implementation of this Chapter in preparation for the reviews provided 
for in Article 15.4 (Review). 
2. 
A committee of senior officials responsible for government procurement policy of 
each Party may meet as appropriate to discuss policy issues, technical or other cooperation, 
and the reviews referred to in paragraph 1. 
