CHAPTER 16 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 16.1: Application 
 
1.  Each Party is fully responsible for the observance of all provisions in this Agreement 
and shall take such reasonable measures as may be available to it to ensure their observance 
by regional and local governments and authorities, and, in respect of trade in services under 
Chapter 8 (Services), by non-governmental bodies (in the exercise of powers delegated by 
central, regional or local government or authorities) within its territory. 
 
2.  The provisions of Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement) may be invoked in respect of 
measures affecting the observance of this Agreement taken by regional or local governments 
or authorities within the territory of a Party. When an arbitral tribunal appointed under 
Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement) has ruled that a provision of this Agreement has not been 
observed, the responsible Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be available to it 
to ensure its observance. The provisions of Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement) relating to the 
suspension of the application of benefits of equivalent effect shall apply in cases where it has 
not been possible to secure such observance. 
 
3.  This Article does not apply to Chapter 10 (Government Procurement).  
 
 
Article 16.2: Transparency 
 
1.  Each Party shall promptly make public all laws, rules, regulations, judicial decisions 
and administrative rulings of general application pertaining to trade in goods, services, and 
investment;  shall  promptly  make  available  administrative  guidelines  which  significantly 
affect trade in services covered by its commitments; and shall endeavour to make available 
promptly administrative guidelines which significantly affect trade in goods and investment. 
 
2.  Each Party shall endeavour to provide opportunity for comment by the other Party on 
its proposed laws, rules, regulations and procedures affecting trade in goods and services and 
investments if it is of the view that any such proposed laws, rules, regulations and procedures 
are likely to affect the rights and obligations of either Party under this Agreement. 
 
3.  Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by the other Party for specific 
information on any of its measures of general application. Each Party shall establish one or 
more enquiry points to provide specific information upon request on all such measures. 
 
4.  In view of the importance of transparency of domestic legislation and procedures 
affecting trade in goods and the supply of services and in investment to the operation of this 
Agreement, the Parties shall discuss any concerns which may arise in this area at the reviews 
referred to in Article 15.4 (Review), in order to address means of overcoming such concerns. 
 
16-1 
 Article 16.3: Business Law 
 
With a view to facilitating business through addressing issues of common interest in 
relation to business law, the Parties shall exchange information on their respective business 
laws as a first step in identifying issues for attention and consideration of an appropriate 
ongoing process for addressing these issues. 
 
 
Article 16.4: General Exceptions 
 
1.  For  the  purposes  of  Chapter  2  (Trade  in  Goods),  Chapter  3  (Rules  of  Origin), 
Chapter 4  (Customs  Procedures  and  Trade  Facilitation),  Chapter  5  (Sanitary  and 
Phytosanitary Measures), Chapter 6 (Technical Barriers to Trade), Chapter 7 (Investment), 
and Chapter 13 (Regulatory Cooperation), Article XX of GATT 1994 and its interpretive 
notes are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
2.  The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article XX(b) of GATT 1994 
include environmental measures necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health, 
and that Article XX(g) of GATT 1994 applies to measures relating to the conservation of 
living and non-living exhaustible natural resources. 
 
3.   For the purposes of Chapter 7 (Investment), Chapter 8 (Services), Chapter 9 (E-
Commerce),  Chapter  13  (Regulatory  Cooperation),  Article  XIV  of  GATS  (including  its 
footnotes) is incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. The 
Parties  understand  that  the  measures  referred  to  in  Article  XIV(b)  of  GATS  include 
environmental measures necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health.  
 
4.  For the purposes of Chapter 10 (Government  Procurement), Article III(2) of the 
Revised Agreement on Government Procurement is incorporated into and made part of this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis. The Parties understand that the measures referred to in Article 
III(2)  of  the  Revised  Agreement  on  Government  Procurement  include  environmental 
measures necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health.  
 
5.  For the purposes of this Agreement, subject to the requirement that such measures are 
not  applied  in  a  manner  which  would  constitute  a  means  of  arbitrary  or  unjustifiable 
discrimination between the Parties where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on 
trade in goods or services and investment, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to 
prevent the adoption or enforcement by a Party of measures necessary to protect national 
works or specific sites of historical or archaeological value, or to support creative arts1 of 
national value.  
                                                 
1 “Creative arts” include ngā toi Māori (Māori arts), the performing arts – including theatre, dance, music, haka 
and waiata – visual arts and craft such as painting, sculpture, whakairo (carving), raranga (weaving) and tā 
moko, literature, film and video, language arts, creative online content, indigenous traditional practice and 
contemporary cultural expression, and digital interactive media and hybrid art work, including those that use 
new technologies to transcend discrete art form divisions. The term encompasses those activities involved in the 
presentation, execution and interpretation of the arts; and the study and technical development of these art forms 
and activities.  
 
16-2 
 Article 16.5: Movement of Natural Persons 
 
1.  This  Agreement  applies  to  measures  affecting  natural  persons  who  are  service 
suppliers of a Party, and natural persons of a Party who are employed by a service supplier of 
a Party, in respect of the supply of a service. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall not apply to measures affecting natural persons seeking access 
to the employment market of a Party nor shall it apply to measures regarding citizenship, 
residence or employment on a permanent basis.  
 
3.  In accordance with Article 8.4 (Market Access), Article 8.5 (National Treatment), 
Article 8.6 (Additional Commitments) and Article 8.7 (Specific Commitments), the Parties 
may negotiate specific commitments applying to the movement of all categories of natural 
persons supplying services under this Agreement. Natural persons covered by a specific 
commitment shall be allowed to supply the service in accordance with the terms of that 
commitment.  
 
4  This Agreement shall also not prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate the 
entry of natural persons of the other Party into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, 
including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the orderly 
movement of natural persons across, its borders, provided that such measures are not applied 
in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits accruing to either Party under the terms 
of a specific commitment.2  
 
 
Article 16.6: Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
1.  In the event of serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or threat 
thereof, a Party may adopt or maintain restrictions on trade in services on which it has 
undertaken specific commitments, including on payments or transfers for transactions related 
to such commitments. In the case of investments, a Party may adopt or maintain restrictions 
with regards to payments relating to the transfer of proceeds from investment. 
 
2.  The restrictions referred to in paragraph 1: 
 
(a)  shall  be  consistent  with  the  Articles  of  Agreement  of  the  International 
Monetary Fund; 
 
(b)  shall avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic and financial 
interests of the other Party; 
 
(c)  shall not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances described in 
paragraph 1; 
 
                                                 
2 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons shall not be regarded as nullifying or impairing benefits 
under a specific commitment. 
16-3 
 (d)  shall be temporary and be phased out progressively as the situation specified 
in paragraph 1 improves; and 
 
(e)  shall be applied on a national treatment basis. 
 
3.  Any restrictions adopted or maintained under paragraph 1, or any changes therein, 
shall be promptly notified to the other Party within 14 days of the date such measures are 
taken.  
 
4.  The Party adopting any restrictions under paragraph 1 shall commence consultations 
with the other Party within 90 days of the date of notification in order to review the measures 
adopted by it. 
 
5.  In the case of trade in goods, where a Party is in serious balance of payments and 
external financial difficulties or under threat thereof, it may, in accordance with GATT 1994 
and  the  Understanding  on  the  Balance-of-Payments  Provisions  of  GATT  1994,  adopt 
restrictive import measures. 
 
 
Article 16.7: Treaty of Waitangi 
 
1.  Provided that such measures are not used as a means of arbitrary or unjustified 
discrimination against persons of the other Party or as a disguised restriction on trade in 
goods and services or investment, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the adoption by 
New Zealand of measures it deems necessary to accord more favourable treatment to Maori 
in respect of matters covered by this Agreement including in fulfilment of its obligations 
under the Treaty of Waitangi. 
 
2.  The Parties agree that the interpretation of the Treaty of Waitangi, including as to the 
nature of the rights and obligations arising under it, shall not be subject to the dispute 
settlement provisions of this Agreement. Chapter 14 (Dispute Settlement) shall otherwise 
apply to this Article. An arbitral tribunal appointed under Article 14.4 (Appointment of 
Arbitral Tribunals) may be requested by Singapore to determine only whether any measure 
(referred to in paragraph 1) is inconsistent with its rights under this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 16.8: Critical Shortages 
 
  Provided that such measures are not used as a means of arbitrary or unjustified 
discrimination against persons of the other Party or as a disguised restriction on trade in 
goods and services or investment, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the adoption by 
Singapore of measures it deems necessary to prevent or relieve a critical shortage or threat 
thereof of any such imports deemed or defined as essential to Singapore under its domestic 
laws and regulations, and where the situation referred to gives rise, or is likely to give rise, to 
major difficulties for Singapore, provided that such measures shall, if Singapore deems fit, be 
discontinued as soon as the conditions giving rise to such measures have ceased to exist. 
 
16-4 
 Article 16.9: Security 
 
  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed: 
 
(a)  as preventing either Party from taking any action which it considers necessary 
for the protection of its essential security interests, including but not limited to 
action relating to traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of war and to 
such traffic in other goods and materials as is carried on directly or indirectly 
for the purpose of supplying a military establishment, and any action taken in 
time of war or other emergency in domestic or international relations; or 
 
(b)  as  preventing  either  Party  from  taking  any  action  in  pursuance  of  its 
obligations  under  the  United  Nations  Charter  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
 
 
Article 16.10: Disclosure of Information 
 
  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require either Party to furnish or 
allow access to information the disclosure of which it considers: 
 
(a)  would be contrary to its essential security interests; 
 
(b)  is contrary to the public interest as determined by its laws and regulations; 
 
(c)  is contrary to any of its laws and regulation, including but not limited to those 
protecting personal privacy or the financial affairs and accounts of individual 
customers of financial institutions; 
 
(d)  would impede law enforcement; or 
 
(e)  would  prejudice  legitimate  commercial  interests  of  particular  enterprises, 
public or private. 
 
 
Article 16.11: Taxation 
 
1.   Except as provided in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shall apply to taxation 
measures. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall only grant rights or impose obligations with respect to taxation 
measures: 
 
(a)   where corresponding rights and obligations are also granted or imposed under 
the WTO Agreement; 
 
(b)   under Article 2.14 (Export Duties); and 
16-5 
 (c)  under Article 7.8 (Expropriation and Compensation). 
 
3.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties under 
any tax convention relating to the avoidance of double taxation in force between the Parties. 
In the event of any inconsistency relating to a taxation measure between this Agreement and 
any such tax convention, the latter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. In the case 
of a tax convention between the Parties, the competent authorities under that convention shall 
have  sole  responsibility  for  determining  whether  any  inconsistency  exists  between  this 
Agreement and that convention. 
 
4.  If there is a dispute described in Article 7.14 (Investment Disputes) that may relate to 
a taxation measure, then the Parties, including representatives of their tax administrations, 
shall hold consultations. Any tribunal established under Article 7.14 (Investment Disputes) 
shall accept a decision of the Parties as to whether the measure in question is a taxation 
measure. 
 
5.  For greater certainty, nothing in this Agreement shall be regarded as obliging either 
Party to extend to the other Party the benefit of any treatment, preference or privilege arising 
from any existing or future agreement on the avoidance of double taxation or from the 
provisions  on  the  avoidance  of  double  taxation  in  any  other  international  agreement  or 
arrangement by which the Party is bound. 
 
6.  No investor may invoke Article 7.8 (Expropriation and Compensation) as the basis for 
a claim if it has been determined pursuant to this paragraph that the measure is not an 
expropriation. An investor that seeks to invoke Article 7.8 (Expropriation and Compensation) 
with respect to a taxation measure must first refer to the competent authorities at least 90 days 
before submitting any claim to conciliation or arbitration the issue of whether that taxation 
measure involves an expropriation. If the competent authorities do not agree to consider the 
issue or, having agreed to consider it, fail to agree that the measure is not an expropriation 
within six months of such referral, the investor may submit the dispute to conciliation or 
arbitration in accordance with Article 7.14.2 (Investment Disputes). 
 
7.  For the purposes of this Article:  
 
(a)  competent authorities means: 
 
(i)  for  New  Zealand,  the  Commissioner  of  Inland  Revenue  or  an 
authorised representative of the Commissioner; and  
 
(ii)  for Singapore, the Chief Tax Policy Officer, Ministry of Finance, or his 
successor  or  such  other  public  officer  as  may  be  designated  by 
Singapore; 
 
(b)  taxation measures include excise duties, but do not include: 
 
(i)  any customs duty as defined in Article 1.2 (General Definitions); or 
 
16-6 
 (ii)  the measures listed in subparagraphs (b) and (c) of that definition. 
 
 
Article 16.12: Association with the Agreement 
 
1.  This Agreement is open to accession or association, on terms to be agreed between 
the Parties, by any Member of the WTO, or by any other State or separate customs territory. 
 
2.  The terms of such accession or association shall take into account the circumstances 
of the Member of the WTO, State or separate customs territory, in particular with respect to 
timetables for liberalisation. 
 
 
Article 16.13: Obligations Under Other International, Regional or Bilateral Agreements 
 
  Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  be  regarded  as  exempting  either  Party  to  this 
Agreement from its obligations under any international, regional or bilateral agreements to 
which it is a party. If a Party considers that a provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with 
a provision of another agreement to which both Parties are party, on request, the Parties shall 
consult with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. 
 
 
Article 16.14: Preferences Under Other Agreements 
 
1.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be regarded as obliging a Party to extend to the other 
Party the benefit of any treatment, preference or privilege arising from any existing or any 
future customs union, free trade area, free trade arrangement, common market, monetary 
union or similar international agreement or other forms of bilateral or regional cooperation to 
which either of the Parties is or may become party; or as preventing the adoption of an 
agreement  designed  to  lead  to  the  formation  or  extension  of  such  a  union,  area  or 
arrangement or market.  
 
2.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as obliging a Party to extend the 
benefit of any treatment, preference or privilege arising under this Agreement to legal or 
natural persons who otherwise only qualify for such benefit by virtue of a separate agreement 
or arrangement entered into by the other Party.  
 
 
Article 16.15: Amendments 
 
  This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by the Parties and such 
amendments shall come into force on such date or dates as may be agreed between them. 
 
   
16-7 
 Article 16.16: Annexes 
 
  The  Annexes  to  this  Agreement,  including  any  Appendices  thereto,  shall  be  an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 16.17: Entry into Force, Duration and Termination 
 
1.  This Agreement shall be subject to ratification. Ratification shall be effected by an 
exchange of Notes between the Parties. The Agreement shall enter into force on the date 
specified in such exchange of Notes. 
 
2.  This Agreement may be terminated by either Party on giving 180 days’ written notice 
to the other Party. 
16-8 
 