SECTORAL ANNEX I 
 
MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
 
This  Sectoral  Annex  specifies  the  implementation  arrangements  in  respect  of 
medicinal products.  
 
 
Section 1: Scope 
 
1.1  This Sectoral Annex applies to the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) inspection of 
manufacturers of medicinal products carried out in the territories of the Parties.  
 
1.2  The Mandatory Requirements covered by this Sectoral Annex are the mandatory 
GMP requirements of the Parties.  
 
1.3  Part III of this Agreement shall apply to this Sectoral Annex.  
 
1.4  For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex:  
 
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) means that part of quality assurance which ensures 
that products are consistently produced and controlled during manufacture to the quality 
standards appropriate to their intended use and as required by the marketing authorisation 
granted by the importing Party;  
 
Inspection  Service  means  a  Regulatory  Authority  responsible  for  the  inspection  of 
manufacturers  of  medicinal  products  and  the  granting  of  manufacturing  licences  or 
certificates for medicinal products; and 
 
medicinal products means all products regulated by the pharmaceutical legislation in each 
Party.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Annex,  the  definition  of  medicinal  products  excludes 
veterinary products. 
 
 
Section 2: Obligations 
 
2.1  New  Zealand  shall  accept  the  conclusions  of GMP  inspections  of  manufacturers 
carried  out  by  Singapore's  Inspection  Service  and  manufacturing  certificates  issued  by 
Singapore's Inspection Service in accordance with Section 4.  
 
2.2  Singapore shall accept the conclusions of GMP inspections of manufacturers carried 
out by New Zealand's Inspection Service and manufacturing certificates issued by New 
Zealand's Inspection Service in accordance with Section 4.  
 
2.3  With respect to medicinal products covered by the mandatory GMP requirements of 
one Party but not the other, manufacturing companies can request that, for the purpose of this 
Sectoral Annex, an inspection be made by the other Party's Inspection Service.  
10 
  
2.4  In addition, the manufacturer’s certification of the conformity of each batch to its 
specifications will be recognised by the other Party without re-testing and certification at 
import. 
 
 
Section 3: Inspection Services 
 
3.1  For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, New Zealand's Inspection Service shall be:  
 
  Medsafe, The New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority  
  Ministry of Health 
 
3.2  For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, Singapore's Inspection Service shall be:  
 
  Audit and Licensing Division 
  Health Products Regulation Group 
  Health Sciences Authority 
 
 
Section 4: Certification of Manufacturers 
 
4.1  At the request of an exporter, importer or the regulatory authority of the other Party, 
the Inspection Service shall assess and, where appropriate, certify that the manufacturer:  
 
(a)  is appropriately authorised to manufacture the relevant medicinal product or to 
carry out the relevant specified manufacturing operation;  
 
(b)  is regularly inspected by the authorities; and  
 
(c)  complies with the national GMP requirements recognised as equivalent by the 
two Parties in accordance with Article 2.3. In cases where different GMP 
requirements are used as a reference, this is to be mentioned in the certificate.  
 
4.2  Certificates  shall  also  identify  the  site(s)  of  manufacture  and  contract  testing 
laboratories (if any). The format of the certificate is attached as Appendix 1 and may be 
modified through agreement by the Parties.  
 
4.3  Certificates shall be issued expeditiously and the time taken shall not exceed 30 
calendar days. In exceptional cases, such as when a new inspection has to be carried out, this 
period may be extended to 60 calendar days.  
 
 
Section 5: Operational Provisions 
 
5.1  Transmission of Inspection Reports  
 
11 
 5.1.1  Upon reasoned request, the relevant Inspection Service shall forward a copy of the 
last inspection report of the manufacturing site or contract testing laboratory in the case 
where analytical operations are contracted out. The request may concern a "full inspection 
report" or a "detailed report" (see Section 5.2). The requesting Party shall deal with these 
inspection reports with the degree of confidentiality requested by the other Party.  
 
5.1.2  If the manufacturing operations of the medicinal product in question have not been 
inspected recently, i.e. when the last inspection dates back to more than three years or a 
particular  need  to  inspect  has  been  identified  by  either  Party,  a  specific  and  detailed 
inspection may be requested by either Party. Where the last inspection dates back to three 
years or less, the Party shall ensure that inspection reports are forwarded to the other Party in 
no more than 30 calendar days. Where the last inspection dates back to more than three years, 
this period to forward the inspection reports to the other Party may be extended to 60 
calendar days.  
 
 
5.2  Inspection Reports  
 
5.2.1  A "full inspection report" comprises a Site Master File (compiled by the manufacturer 
and verified by the Inspection Service) and a narrative report by the Inspection Service. A 
"detailed report" responds to specific queries about a manufacturer by the other Party.  
 
 
5.3  Reference GMP  
 
5.3.1  For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  with  respect  to  medicinal  products  covered  by  the 
mandatory  GMP  requirements  of  the  importing  Party  but  not  the  exporting  one,  GMP 
inspections by  the  Inspection Service of the  exporting Party  shall be in  relation to  the 
mandatory GMP requirements of the importing Party. This shall also be the case when the 
mandatory GMP requirements of both Parties are not regarded as equivalent in accordance 
with Article 2.3.  
 
5.3.2  Equivalence of GMP requirements for specific products or classes of products shall be 
determined according to a procedure established by the Parties.  
 
 
5.4  Nature of Inspections  
 
5.4.1  Inspection Services shall routinely assess the compliance of the manufacturer with 
mandatory GMP requirements.  
 
5.4.2  Inspection Services shall, on the request of the other Party, undertake product specific 
assessments of a manufacturer's compliance with mandatory GMP requirements.  
 
 
5.5   Safeguard Clause for Inspections  
 
12 
 5.5.1  Each Regulatory Authority may, subject to the laws and regulations of the other Party, 
conduct its own inspection of manufacturers in the other Party for reasons identified to the 
other Party. Such inspections shall be notified in advance to the other Party, which has the 
option of joining the inspection. Recourse to this safeguard clause shall only be exercised in 
exceptional circumstances for the purpose of health and safety and shall only occur with the 
consent of the manufacturer.  
 
5.6  Exchange of Information between Regulatory Authorities and Harmonisation of 
Requirements  
 
5.6.1  In  accordance  with  this  Agreement,  the  Parties  shall  exchange  any  information 
necessary for the mutual recognition of inspections.  
 
5.6.2  In addition, the relevant Regulatory Authorities in New Zealand and in Singapore 
shall keep each other informed of any new technical guidance or inspection procedure. Each 
Party shall consult with the other Party before their adoption and shall endeavour to work 
towards their harmonisation or equivalence.  
 
 
5.7  Inspectors Training  
 
5.7.1  In  accordance  with  this  Agreement,  training  sessions  for  inspectors  on  GMP, 
organised by the Regulatory Authorities, shall be accessible to inspectors of the other Party. 
The Parties shall keep each other informed of these sessions.  
 
 
5.8  Joint Inspections  
 
5.8.1  In accordance with this Agreement, and by mutual agreement between the Parties, 
joint inspections may be conducted. These inspections are intended to develop common 
understanding and interpretation of practice and requirements.  
 
5.8.2  The fee for a joint inspection will be charged only by the Regulatory Authority of the 
Party in whose territory the inspection is carried out if the Inspection Service of the other 
Party participates in the joint inspection for the purposes of training.  
 
 
5.9  Alert System  
 
5.9.1  Contact points shall be agreed between the Parties to permit Regulatory Authorities 
and manufacturers of one Party to inform the Regulatory Authorities of the other Party with 
appropriate speed in case of quality defect, batch recalls, counterfeiting and other problems 
concerning  quality,  which  could  necessitate  additional  controls  or  suspension  of  the 
distribution of the batch. A detailed alert procedure shall be agreed.  
 
5.9.2   The Parties shall ensure that any suspension or withdrawal (total or partial) of a 
manufacturing authorisation, based on non-compliance with mandatory GMP requirements 
13 
 and which could affect the protection of public health, is communicated to each other with 
the appropriate degree of urgency. 
 
 
5.10  Contact Points  
 
5.10.1 For the purpose of this Sectoral Annex, the contact points for any technical question, 
such  as  exchange  of  inspection  reports,  inspectors’  training  sessions  and  technical 
requirements, will be:  
 
5.10.2 For New Zealand:  
 
  For GMP:  
  Manager, Compliance Management Branch 
  Medsafe 
  The New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority 
  Ministry of Health 
  PO Box 5013 
  Wellington 
  New Zealand 
 
  Tel.: +64-4-819 6800 
  Email: gmp@moh.govt.nz 
 
  For the Alert System:   
  Manager, Compliance Management Branch 
  Medsafe 
  The New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority 
  Ministry of Health 
  PO Box 5013 
  Wellington 
  New Zealand 
   
  Tel: +64 4 819 6800 
  Email: recalls@moh.govt.nz 
 
 
5.10.3 For Singapore:  
 
  For GMP:  
  Division Director, Audit and Licensing Division 
  Health Products Regulation Group 
  Health Sciences Authority 
  
  Tel: +65 6866 3509 
  Fax: +65 6478 9068 
 
14 
   For the Alert System:  
  Director, Vigilance and Compliance Branch 
  Health Products Regulation Group 
  Health Sciences Authority 
  
  Tel: +65 6866 3415  
    
 
 
5.11  Divergence of Views  
 
5.11.1 The Regulatory Authorities shall use their best endeavours to resolve any divergence 
of views concerning any aspect governed by this Sectoral Annex on Medicinal Products inter 
alia compliance of manufacturers and conclusions of inspection reports.  
 
 
Section 6: Entry into Force 
 
6.1  For the avoidance of doubt, this Sectoral Annex shall enter into force on the day that 
this Agreement enters into force.   
15 
 APPENDIX 1 
(Letterhead of Competent Authority) 
 
Certificate No: _ _ _/_ _ _/_ _  
 
CERTIFICATE OF GMP COMPLIANCE OF A MANUFACTURER  
ISSUED UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE MUTUAL RECOGNITION AGREEMENT  
BETWEEN SINGAPORE AND NEW ZEALAND  
 
As requested by ……………………………..…….………………. on …/…/… (date), the 
competent authority of ………........…………. (Country) confirms the following:  
 
The  company  ………………………………………………..,  whose  legally  registered 
address is:  
…………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
has  been  authorised,  in  accordance  with  .…………………………………………….., 
transposed in the following national legislation ……………………………………….  
 
under  the  authorisation  reference  number  ……………….……..,  covering  the  following 
site(s) of manufacture:  
1. ………………………………………………………………. 
2. ………………………………………………………………. 
 
to carry out the following manufacturing operations:  
+   complete manufacture, or  
+   partial manufacture*  
 
 
in the following dosage forms/product types (see attached list of categories):  
……………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
From the knowledge gained during inspections of this manufacturer, the latest of which was 
conducted on …/…/… (date), it is considered that the company complies with the mandatory 
Good Manufacturing Practice requirements referred to in the Sectoral Annex (Medicinal 
Products) of the Mutual Recognition Agreement on Conformity Assessment between New 
Zealand and Singapore.  
 
This certificate remains valid for three years from the date of last inspection. 
 
…/…/… (date)  
Name  and  signature  of  a  responsible  officer  of  the 
Competent Authority of (country)  
…………………………………………….  
(name)  
(title)  
16 
 (national authority)  
(phone and fax numbers)  
 
_________________  
(* delete that which does not apply) 
17 
 