 
17 May 2019 
 
Hon S Iswaran 
Minister-in-Charge of Trade Relations 
Singapore 
 
Dear Minister, 
 
In connection with the signature of the Protocol to Amend the Agreement between New Zealand 
and Singapore on a Closer Economic Partnership, and in accordance with Article 8.9 
(Professional Qualifications and Registration) of the amended Agreement, I have the honour 
to confirm the following mutual understanding reached between the Government of 
New Zealand and the Government of the Republic of Singapore: 
 
1. New Zealand and Singapore share an ambitious vision for cooperation and a strong and 
seamless trade and economic relationship. New Zealand and Singapore will work 
together to expand trade in services, and to encourage the flow of professionals in the 
field of accounting between our two countries. 
 
2. New Zealand and Singapore acknowledge the long history of cooperation between 
professional accountancy bodies in the two countries. New Zealand and Singapore 
recognise the commitment of these bodies to meeting International Education 
Standards. New Zealand and Singapore further recognise the value of mutual 
recognition of qualification programmes of equivalent standards to encourage trade in 
educational services, and promote the mobility of professionals between the two 
countries. 
 
3. Further to paragraph 2, and noting that negotiations between the Chartered Accountants 
of Australia and New Zealand (CAANZ) and the relevant bodies in Singapore, such as 
the Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (ISCA), have begun in relation to 
pursuing an arrangement for the mutual recognition of professional qualification 
programs, the relevant bodies in Singapore, such as ISCA, will continue negotiations 
with CAANZ on mutual recognition with the aim of concluding such negotiations 
within a reasonable period of time. Once concluded, Singapore will notify New Zealand 
of the conclusion of the negotiations with CAANZ. 
 
4. Following the completion of the processes outlined in paragraph 3, and further to the 
requirements of Article 8.9 (Professional Qualifications and Registration) of the 
amended Agreement, New Zealand and Singapore will continue to work together to 
identify future opportunities and priority areas for increased cooperation and dialogue 
in relation to arrangements for  recognition of professional qualifications or registration.  
As required by Article 8.9, this will be reviewed as part of the regular reviews provided 
for in Article 15.2 (Meetings of the Joint Commission) of the amended Agreement. 
 
I have the further honour of proposing that this letter, and your letter in reply confirming this 
mutual understanding, constitute an Arrangement between the Government of New Zealand 
and the Government of the Repbulic of Singapore which will come into effect on the date of 
your letter in reply. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Hon Damien O’Connor 
Minister of State for Trade and Export Growth 
New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
17 May 2019 
 
Hon Damien O’Connor 
Minister of State for Trade and Export Growth 
New Zealand 
 
Dear Minister, 
 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today’s date, which reads as follows: 
 
“In connection with the signature of the Protocol to Amend the Agreement between New 
Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic Partnership, and in accordance with 
Article 8.9 (Professional Qualifications and Registration) of the amended Agreement, 
I have the honour to confirm the following mutual understanding reached between the 
Government of New Zealand and the Government of the Republic of Singapore: 
 
1. New Zealand and Singapore share an ambitious vision for cooperation and a strong 
and seamless trade and economic relationship. New Zealand and Singapore will 
work together to expand trade in services, and to encourage the flow of 
professionals in the field of accounting between our two countries. 
 
2. New Zealand and Singapore acknowledge the long history of cooperation between 
professional accountancy bodies in the two countries. New Zealand and Singapore 
recognise the commitment of these bodies to meeting International Education 
Standards. New Zealand and Singapore further recognise the value of mutual 
recognition of qualification programmes of equivalent standards to encourage trade 
in educational services, and promote the mobility of professionals between the two 
countries. 
 
3. Further to paragraph 2, and noting that negotiations between the Chartered 
Accountants of Australia and New Zealand (CAANZ) and the relevant bodies in 
Singapore, such as the Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (ISCA), have 
begun in relation to pursuing an arrangement for the mutual recognition of 
professional qualification programs, the relevant bodies in Singapore, such as 
ISCA, will continue negotiations with CAANZ on mutual recognition with the aim 
of concluding such negotiations within a reasonable period of time. Once 
concluded, Singapore will notify New Zealand of the conclusion of the negotiations 
with CAANZ. 
 
4. Following the completion of the processes outlined in paragraph 3, and further to 
the requirements of Article 8.9 (Professional Qualifications and Registration) of the 
amended Agreement, New Zealand and Singapore will continue to work together 
to identify future opportunities and priority areas for increased cooperation and 
dialogue in relation to arrangements for  recognition of professional qualifications 
or registration.  As required by Article 8.9, this will be reviewed as part of the 
regular reviews provided for in Article 15.2 (Meetings of the Joint Commission) of 
the amended Agreement. 
 
I have the further honour of proposing that this letter, and your letter in reply confirming 
this mutual understanding, constitute an Arrangement between the Government of New 
Zealand and the Government of the Repbulic of Singapore which will come into effect 
on the date of your letter in reply.” 
 
I have the further honour to confirm that the above reflects the mutual understandings reached 
between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of New Zealand 
during the course of negotiations of the Protocol to Amend the Agreement between 
New Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic Partnership Agreement, and that your letter 
and this letter in reply constitute an arrangement between the Government of the Republic of 
Singapore and the Government of New Zealand which will come into effect on the date of this 
letter in reply. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
S Iswaran 
Minister-in-Charge of Trade Relations 
Singapore  
