17 May 2019 
 
Hon S Iswaran 
Minister-in-Charge of Trade Relations 
Singapore 
 
Dear Minister, 
 
I  refer  to  the  following  agreements  between  New  Zealand  and  Singapore 
("Agreements"): 
 
1.  Agreement between New Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic 
Partnership done at Singapore on 14 November 2000 (NZSCEP); 
 
2.  Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement that entered into 
force on 28 May 2006 (TPSEP); 
 
3.  Agreement Establishing the ASEAN - Australia – New Zealand Free Trade 
Area done at Cha-am on 27 February 2009 (AANZFTA); and 
 
4.  Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership 
done at Santiago on 8 March 2018 (CPTPP). 
 
I have the honour to confirm the following interpretative understandings relating to 
the Agreements reached by New Zealand and Singapore during the course of the 
negotiations on the Protocol to Amend the Agreement between New Zealand and 
Singapore on a Closer Economic Partnership. Nothing in NZSCEP will derogate 
from the rights and obligations of New Zealand or Singapore under the TPSEP, 
AANZFTA or CPTPP. To the greatest extent possible, the Agreements will be 
interpreted  consistently.  Where  the  NZSCEP,  TPSEP,  AANZFTA  or  CPTPP 
provides  different  treatment  for  an  exporter,  service  supplier  or  investor  of New Zealand or Singapore, that exporter, service supplier or investor is entitled to 
claim the most favourable of the treatment accorded to that exporter, service 
supplier or investor under any of the Agreements. 
 
I have the further honour to propose that this letter and your letter of confirmation 
in reply will constitute the understandings between our two Governments on the 
interpretation of the Agreements. 
 
Yours Sincerely, 
 
 
Hon Damien O’Connor 
Minister of State for Trade and Export Growth 
New Zealand 
   17 May 2019 
 
Hon Damien O’Connor 
Minister of State for Trade and Export Growth 
New Zealand 
 
Dear Minister,  
 
I have the honour of acknowledging receipt of your letter of today's date, which 
states as follows: 
   
“I refer to the following agreements between New Zealand and Singapore 
("Agreements"): 
 
1.  Agreement  between  New  Zealand  and  Singapore  on  a  Closer 
Economic Partnership done at Singapore on 14 November 2000 
(NZSCEP); 
 
2.  Trans-Pacific  Strategic  Economic  Partnership  Agreement  that 
entered into force on 28 May 2006 (TPSEP); 
 
3.  Agreement Establishing the ASEAN - Australia – New Zealand Free 
Trade Area done at Cha-am on 27 February 2009 (AANZFTA); and 
 
4.  Comprehensive  and  Progressive  Agreement  for  Trans-Pacific 
Partnership done at Santiago on 8 March 2018 (CPTPP). 
 
I have the honour to confirm the following interpretative understandings 
relating to the Agreements reached by New Zealand and Singapore during 
the course of the negotiations on the Protocol to Amend the Agreement 
between New Zealand and Singapore on a Closer Economic Partnership. Nothing  in  NZSCEP  will  derogate  from  the  rights  and  obligations  of 
New Zealand or Singapore under the TPSEP, AANZFTA or CPTPP. To the 
greatest extent possible, the Agreements will be interpreted consistently. 
Where the NZSCEP, TPSEP, AANZFTA or CPTPP provides different 
treatment for an exporter, service supplier or investor of New Zealand or 
Singapore, that exporter, service supplier or investor is entitled to claim the 
most favourable of the treatment accorded to that exporter, service supplier 
or investor under any of the Agreements. 
 
I have the further honour to propose that this letter and your letter of 
confirmation in reply will constitute the understandings between our two 
Governments on the interpretation of the Agreements.” 
 
I have the honour to confirm that your letter and this letter in reply will constitute 
the understandings between our two Governments on the interpretation of the 
Agreements. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
S Iswaran 
Minister-in-Charge of Trade Relations 
Singapore 